ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. Miladin Ševarlic: According to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure can't. We haven't even started the session. MP Vojislav Seselj. I read in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have a first question for Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic – did she finally work out a link between the minister and the police director and did the police director arrive in the meantime to inform Minister Stefanovic of all the criminal actions of Minister Ljajic, Rasim Ljajic, of whom the police have an orderly record? What will the minister do about it? It is so many criminal acts and concealing the crimes of others, abuse of functions, etc., that it simply puts the entire government at risk unless the government reacts and starts to reconstruct. Then the elections for the Bosniak National Minority Council were recently held. Three political entities participated in these elections. None of them got an absolute majority. Although during the election campaign, Sulejman Ugljanin openly placed himself in Serbia's worst enemies, he called for Serbia's destruction as a state, political entities behind which Rasim Ljajic, who is not yet organised as a party but a political organisation, titled "Vakat", joined the coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin. So, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister and Trade and Telecommunications Minister Rasim Ljajic is directly in a coalition with Ugljanin. The President of the Bosniak National Council was elected Esad Djudža, a man who once had a beautiful last name – Djudžević, an antique, beautiful, soundy, na – ić. All of a sudden, it occurred to him to change his last name and his last name was Jooja or Joojo, which, by the way, doesn't matter. It's the same meaning. Look in Turkish, look in Serbian. The meaning is – a man with no morals, no great sense, primitive, no taste, etc. It's Jujuja or Jujo if we're going to get closer to the original Turkish. The man now tailors Serbia and singles out the centre of Serbia, Vojvodina, Sandzak and Kosovo. He enjoys the support of Rasim Ljajic. If it wasn't for Rasim Ljajic, he would never have been elected to that place. This is a question for Ana Brnabic – how long will she suffer in the Serbian government? What does that mean – is the government behind Rasim Ljajic, behind his crime, corruption and counter-state action? To warn you, the whole world has known about the criminal activities of Rasim Ljajic for 15 years. Those among you who are more educated must have heard of the magazine “Defence and Folling Strategic Policy”. - Muamer Bacevac throws. What is it, Bacevac, you've never heard of it? Now you'll hear. In 2004, the journal published a scientific article by Gregory Copli on terrorism in the Balkans, and he said in one place, on the Internet you can find an article by Gregory Kopli and in Serbian, we made sure to translate and be in Serbian... The People's Messenger throws: "Time." It hasn't expired yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49336	Time's up now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49337	Well-positioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49338	Thank you. It's been five minutes now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49339	It's been writing to me for three minutes. Just one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49340	It doesn't say well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49341	You've always been a tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49342	I know, but then I get it, and it turns out I'm particularly intolerant to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49343	You've always been tolerated, Maya, towards everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49344	Please don't. Thank you very much, but he can't right now. (Vojislav Seselj: Just one sentence about Rasim Ljajic and his brother, as he uses his office for crime. ) The next MP to receive the word is Jovan Jovanovic. Sign up, you're not in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49345	Thank you. Three weeks since the Assembly did not take up the meeting were filled with events that have bareed power in Serbia and letentialism on the external political agenda, incompetence, haughtiness, violence and clientalism in the internal policy. So we experienced humiliation in Paris at the celebration of 100 years since the end of World War I. I was there that day at the Paris Peace Forum where 65 heads of state and government participated, but our president was gone. Then, a mildly spoken interview of the Prime Minister for Deutsche Welle, from which we learned that EU membership is practically no longer the government's strategic goal, as well as that Serbia does not recognise the rulings of international courts, then its attempt to minimise Oliver Ivanovic's murder, then an inappropriate celebration of another so-called. Winning the international plan, as well as the scandalous jumps by the foreign minister about it, followed by Serbian and Serb citizens in an even worse position, the gruesome beating of political opponents, the inclusion of a convicted war criminal on television with national frequency, the irregular financial business of all local self-government, the arms trade involving the minister's father, the suspension of traffic on the Belgrade-Bar track. My questions concern the events mentioned above, but all these questions can be brought under one key, what kind of society do we want to build, or on what values should this society be based on? Do we want a society that will appreciate and support education, science, culture, decency, security work, respect for the law, a society that will advocate environmental protection and future generations, or will have priority in security structures, suspicious business partners of the government and the religious community as the proposed budget shows? The first question I refer to the Prime Minister – did the Government, after the disastrous treatment of Serbia in Paris, take steps to change the idea of our country, or was such treatment directed only personally against the president, so perhaps as a state, there is nothing to worry about? The second question, also the Prime Ministers – why did European integrations that are the main declared foreign policy objective stop? A recent internal report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress says there is no progress in key areas such as judicial reform, the fight against corruption, war crimes and media freedom. After an interview that Deutsche Welle gave, which she stated - if you ask me that the EU now says that we can join tomorrow, I would say no, because we are not ready yet and it is clear that EU membership is no longer, if ever, the government's strategic goal. Therefore, the ruling majority should either replace the prime minister because of the disrespect of the programme on which she was elected, i.e. the obvious failure to achieve it, or to present her or someone else a new programme. I remind you, Croatia has completed negotiations with the EU in less than six years, and in January it will be five years as Serbia negotiates and has not opened half of its chapters, and we are better off not talking about closing. Otherwise, this interview, Deutsche Welle, just shows what happens when you get used to staged interviews and you've been avoiding debates for years, or you're using a propaganda machine, so you start believing in what you're saying, even though it has nothing to do with reality. All of the above only points to the conclusion that this government wants to continue in a gray undefined zone in which the most useful hunters in the cloudy area are close to it. And it seems that these very business and political partners, who have rarely emerged from criminal circles, are the reasons why the prime minister tried to minimize Oliver Ivanovic's murder after the intervention of Kosovo security forces in northern Mitrovica, with the following scandalous words – some investigation into something that happened 11 months ago, and they suddenly remembered that they were investigating something. I ask the Prime Minister – does he still remember the statement by President Vukic in January that the murder of Ivanovic is a terrorist act, and that his killers will be found, which and how it was crushed at Oliver Ivanovic's grave along with Marko Djuric? A question for the Minister for Local Self-Government – what does he intend to do about the DRI findings according to which no local self-government in Serbia has received a positive assessment of financial business, and we know well who is in power in almost all municipalities in Serbia? The next question for the defence minister – is it true that Branko Stefanovic, the father of the police minister, was one of the representatives of the company that participated in the conclusion of arms sales business between the Serbian firm Krusik and buyers from Saudi Arabia? And if so, what qualified him to get a job like that? Finally, a question for Minister Mihajlovic regarding another scandal in her portfolio. Namely, the traffic on the bar track between Užic and Montenegro's border for several days was interrupted because of the smoothed rails, and last night a few freight wagons fell out on the railway near Svilinec and at a speed of 20km per hour. Will someone, at last, be responsible for this and other gaps in her vault? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49346	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49347	I thank the president. I ask the question of the interior minister, justice ministers and Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, and in light of what happened on Friday, three days ago, when a manly, cowardly beating one of the Alliance for Serbia's leaders, Borko Stefanovic. Mr. Borko Stefanovic is, perhaps, the last in a series that was beaten by the SNS' beating squads, and I'll remind you of some of the cases that happened before. In 2013 in Vrbas, Danilo Bobic and Ina Stravica said the following – Zoran Milojevic Zelja first hit me on the street, and then drove me to the SNS headquarters in Vrbas where he continued to beat and strangle me. In 2014, the Council adopted Mininica, Milan Gavrilovic, a candidate of the DS for the president of the municipality of Mininica – "lada levels" of Valjev's license plates prevented me from the way ahead, and the other car came behind mine. I went out, introduced myself to the most normal, polite, when at least 10 people came at me and started beating me. There was no way I could defend myself against so many attackers. In 2018, in Bujanovac, during the election for local community councils in the polling post, SNS activists who did not vote in the polling post entered and wanted to interfere with the process. After the warning, the debate followed, and later Sasa Arsic hit one of them and cut the other with a knife. In 2018, in Vranje, it happened that Djordje Ristic and Dragan Pavlovic were brutally beaten by a group of SNS hooligans and Božidar Popovic, Milos Antic and two NN persons against whom the People's Party filed criminal charges. Their statement was: first they insulted us, cursing us, throwing us away, then they went around the fence and started hitting us. They threw Dragan away, and after a few minutes, I got away and got away with calling the police. In the end, what happened on Friday when Borko Stefanovic and Boban Jovanovic who were with him were beaten – I entered the door of the local community where there was a group of boys in the shadows in the dark with black hoods and in some darker clothes. My three, four associates went a little behind me. I walked past them and appeared naively to say "Good evening", after which I received a strong blow to the back of my head and lost consciousness. I was in a pool of blood, and that wasn't all, because while I was lying on the concrete, I got a few more hits in the head and body area. These are statements given to the police by people who are brutally attacked for something common to all of them, which is that opposition to Alexander Vukic and this regime, that they think with their own head and that the media satanized and all attacked cowardly by a pack where three, four or five of them attacked one or two. I remind you that less than a year has passed since Oliver Ivanovic was killed, who had been burned down before, burned down his office, raided his apartment, and ended up cowardly killing him with six bullets in the back of his head. So, I ask the Minister of the Interior, I ask the Minister of Justice, I ask Alexander Vukic - how long has it been with each of these investigations, and what is the epilogue individually of each of these cases? I ask – does the Serbia you stand for have Serbia divided, hatred, media satanization, aggression, lynching, violence, Serbia in which, as of yesterday, there was a murder in Pirot, a murder in Nis, an attempted murder on Bezian hair? So in this atmosphere and in this environment, I ask you -- what is the next opposition politician to be beaten by your criminal beating organisations that you have all over Serbia? So is this how you will advocate democracy, freedom of opinion and the rule of justice and institutes in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49348	Thank you. Time. Thank you. Thank you. The word is Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49349	Dear People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are in a home that makes laws and cares for the legality and implementation of the law in this country, so I remind you, most kindly of the President of the Assembly, Mrs. Majo Gojkovic, that since you are in the structure of the Republic of Serbia, second in all matters and represent this country in the right way, and above all this Assembly which is the most legislative body and I repeat, it is concerned about the legality of work throughout the country, I ask you most strongly to call on the Administrative Committee and to establish the termination of the mandate of the self-called Duke of Seselj, as it is a member of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, Article 88rd, it is clearly marked as someone who automatically terminates the mandate, because it is accused of the most serious war crimes and that is the word of war crimes here with us. Once again, I remind you there is no parliament in Europe where a war criminal sits. I must convey to you the concerns of the citizens of Novi Pazar and Sandzak, and I must also point out to you because of other Serbian citizens that I have received support and that a huge number of Serbs, the Serb national minority, voted for me, and that in Novi Pazar I have indeed had many calls and many stops from them. They're concerned about the rise of nationalism and once again I say, the fascism led by Mr. Seselj. Gentlemen, the word - homogenization was first introduced in the 18th century, so then the nice social democracy of Germany, or Mr Himmler established in that system, and it meant and it meant, they used it abundantly, it means cleaning up a field of one nation, deporting certain inhabitants of a particular nation, banishing them and killing them. Gentlemen, the self-proclaimed Duke Seselj has been convicted of these things in the highest international court and he is a war criminal and I beg you, it is not good for the Republic of Serbia that a person of this kind of past, such manners, sits in a congregation of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, I must tell you, that the citizens of the Serbian nation of Novi Pazar have given me much to tell Mr. Seselj, and they have also sent him messages on "youtube", he can look at what the citizens of Novi Pazar think of him. Namely, I'll remind you gentlemen, that this, self-proclaimed duke, was a great war-scraper in the most difficult time and encouraged people to commit the most severe and heinous crimes, and that's something you can't forget. In the end, he blacked out a most positive trend and a positive tradition that existed in the Serbian people. I remind you, since we remember today, these days, the First World War, that General Stepanovic in the Battle of Cer, won the highest title of the Duke since he won, and that was the first victory of the Allies against Germany. What did Mr. Seselj deserve? By lying, by causing great harm to his people, and by all things which no man would lift up on the earth's pattern. So, once again, I ask you to deny this war criminal a place in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to withdraw his term at the verdict of the highest court, and I will remind you that international law is above national law and that Serbia is the one most often referred to as standards of international law. This criminal is no place amongst the representatives... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49350	Time. It's all right, it's just a question, Mr. Butcher, you didn't ask. I didn't want to interrupt you, and I have to have one intervention as president of parliament to tell you that Serbs are not a national minority in Serbia. That's what everyone noticed you said that you were voted by citizens of Serbs, a national minority. (Muamer Bacevic: Lapsus was it, ma'am.) Yes, I accept it's a lapus, I had to react. I'll take it. The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49351	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, I would like to ask the Ministry of Agriculture a question concerning the renting of agricultural land. I'm sorry, Mr. Seselj, can you keep it down a notch, 'cause I can't hear myself either. The question is, when will the regulation on the lease of agricultural land be reviewed and amended for 30 years? In fact, the warlords believe it's a cancer wound to their business, but not only to those who process the country, but also to the citizens who search for the land taken from the restitution. I will remind you that in 2015, I asked the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment, then the environment, about the arrival of the German company Tenis, which plans to build 20 pig farms in Serbia, from which five farms were planned to start in Vojvodina, i.e. Banat, Zrenjanin, Vrsac, Kovin, Kikindi and Pancheva were then signed a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this German pigmeat producer. Where are we today? The public still does not know under what conditions the company intends to raise farms in Vojvodina, and what are the economic and ecological consequences it will cause. We of the L.S.V. all the time insisted on not being allowed to... Madam Chairman, please, can you... I raise my hands. In fact, we of the LSV all the time insist not to allow the lease of a duchy country for 30 years without a clear contract with which the public will be thoroughly informed. The German company, whose arrival has been announced since 2015, was authorised by the state commission last August to rent land in Kikinda of 3,000 hectares and 2,400 hectares in Zrenjanin. The approval is still waiting for local self-government in Plandište, Vrsac and Secnje, but Tenis has not yet entered the official lease of land in Serbia, i.e. it has not started to build a farm and has relocated for a year its arrival in Serbia, so some of the municipalities of this country, which is reserved land, have been leased to domestic warlords. I ask the question, why has the ministry approved this delay, considering that several thousand hectares of reserved land, while at the same time there are no available state-runs and this will directly lead to the shutting down of the village and the complete uncertainty of agricultural producers? The details of this project and their intentions are not yet known. There were words that they needed 15,000 acres of land and that they'd be dealing with processing. None of that is yet to exist, so we're asking the Ministry of Agriculture to answer when and will this great pig producer come in at all, and how long will they keep the country for him, or the highest quality first and second-class ornaments? The warlords seek justice through court, because they believe the best country saves for investors. They believe that there is a political intention to make the position of small and medium-sized owners more difficult at the expense of corporate agriculture that has come, which is not the only firm that gets the country this way. In fact, warlords are making it most difficult for different monopolies to practically disappear, whether or not on purpose, they are not known. The agricultural land award regulation also affected the heirs of agricultural land, as large areas of land are excluded from return. They are reserved for large companies, such as Tennis, while restitution is offered land under burden or lower quality fields, which is why according to information we have in place has been stalled in the restitution. When will the ministry solve this problem and be in the interest of our citizens, to whom is the country returning? Another question I want to ask the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia about the fate of Luka Novi Sad's company, on behalf of small shareholders. Namely, a privatisation tender for Luke was announced in September and media reported that there were many interested, however no one reported. A tender was extended in November until November 21st, the 23rd was due to open bids. However, no one responded to this tender, so the subject of the tender was only the business of Luke, cranes, cranes, warehouses and the like while land in port land, the infrastructure remained in its own state. I ask the Ministry of Business and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what are their plans regarding Luke Novi Sad after a failed tender for its privatisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49352	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49353	My first question goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's a ministry whose work I've had in the past by some words of praise and especially when it comes to this activity to withdrawing recognition of independence so-called "independence". the Republic of Kosovo and in some other situations. Unfortunately, this time I don't have and can't have any, not only praise, but not understanding and my question is about the incident, although I would say it's much more than an incident, than a scandal marking the 100th anniversary of the end of the World War I in Paris and everything that's happened in this regard, and what can't be called a humiliation for the Serbian delegation and the Serbian state and the Serbian people, which happened during that celebration, that jubilee in the capital of France. My question is also for the Prime Minister, but above all for the Foreign Ministry, if they knew what they had done to prevent this scandal, not to happen, there I mean not only the treatment of the president of Serbia when marking the jubilee that was scandalous and shameful, but I mean the even more scandalous fact of the flaging so-called. The Republic of Kosovo to Notre Dame in Paris. So, I believe that already after that, the Serbian state and Serbian diplomacy were obliged to send a sharp demarch to France, to seek the removal of the flag, as well as adequate treatment of the Serbian delegation. It didn't happen and Aleksandar Vucic himself said, and Ivica Dacic also - we can't do it because it would endanger the visit to Serbia, and that there was no demarca. Then, as is usually the case in life, a new slap arrived in the light of the prominent and honorable role Hashim Thaci played at the celebration, while the representative and president of Serbia were thrown across the road on the sidelines. So, when this happened, did the ministry find those responsible for this incident, responsible for our side, when it comes to France, have there been nothing to talk about, has it been found that the error to the embassy, to our protocol, to the embassy in Paris, is the error in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or has the error been made in the cabinet of the President of the Republic? It is scandalous that for such an important event, the Serbian side does not know where the Serbian representative is sitting and to feel such a slap, such as the flag. The Republic of Kosovo in Paris. So, I demand information on this, above all, from the Foreign Ministry and why the demarch of France was not sent after all, and probably not for the same reasons why it was not referred before to the flag of the Albanian, or Kosovo, in Notre-Dame. My second question goes to the Ministry of the Interior and concerns the brutal attack, the practical assassination attempt by Borko Stefanovic, as well as his associates, because Borko Stefanovic was not attacked alone, and the statement and gestures that occurred afterwards. Namely, the names of the attackers have been published with initials, which is formally correct, although this is a principle that is very often broken in many other cases, but my request from the Ministry of Interior and the Prime Minister is going in the direction of requiring that the employers be established, because everyone in Krusevec knows who these persons are under initials, everyone knows that they are small criminals related to a small-scale player on a cruise stage, and who is a business partner for all of us known and known to the wider Serbian public businessmen from northern Kosovo such as Zvonko Veseinovic and Milan Radojićic, who has also mentioned much lately. So, not the initials as if it were girls and minors of the attackers against Borko Stefanovic, but the names of those who stand behind, and not that they are hiding and remain about the few scapegoats in the wind that everyone in Krusevec knows who they are, and therefore there is no reason to publish their names under initials, so before I am the president of the state yesterday to announce that Mr. Radojicicic was mentioned, a polygraph, which is also something that should not be known to the public, nor should it be something published by the President of the Republic. Then perhaps we could know the names of those attackers on Borko Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49354	Thank you. The word has Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49355	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for Minister for Labour, Employment, Social and Combat Affairs, as well as for Prime Minister Ms. Ana Brnabic. My parliamentary question will be about reforming the pension and disability system. The United Pensioners' Party of Serbia estimated that an urgent reform of the pension system is necessary, as an increasingly unfavourable relationship between the number of pensioners and the number of employees is growing. Negative natural growth, the departure of young people abroad is just some of the factors that have a negative impact on the possibility of regular pension payments. The additional problem is the increasing automation and robotics of the production process. Mandatory pension insurance, as it operates in Serbia today, is designed as intergenerational solidarity, i.e. as a process where current employees are paying their pension funds, so that pensions can be paid. In order for this system to work, it is necessary for the relationship between the number of employees and the number of pensioners to be at least three to one. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, there are currently 2,576,138 persons employed, and according to the data of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, there are 1,716,274 pensioners, representing a relationship one and a half to one. Therefore, the PUPS has launched a social dialogue on the necessity of reforming the pension system and we expect it to be accepted. We offer suggestions, not final solutions. We believe that we will come to a solution in a constructive, healthy atmosphere, a conversation that cannot bypass representative trade unions, pensioners' associations, NGOs, professional public, government representatives and relevant political parties. The current generation of pensioners has always been with their country and have always been there to help when needed, as is the case in 2014. Fiscal consolidation seems encouraging. The decision to stop reducing pensions is very good and it opens up space to get into something called a serious reform of the pension system. This reform, normally, has to be staged. The first step is sustainable legislative solutions that will regulate the problem. Such solutions, comprehensive and stable, will completely exclude any impact of individuals, groups, parties, but also legitimate concerns of people who will retire and under what conditions. Also, the Fiscal Council and the International Monetary Fund agree that a reform of the pension system and the establishment of legal solutions is necessary both in finding the financing of the PIO Fund and in the part of harmonising pensions. It is particularly interesting to think about Professor Vladimir Goati, who spoke about these issues in an interview with Telegraph – it would be very useful to include the general public in the debate on pension and disability reforms. He states that the public must participate in the debate as much as for the current, and for future pensioners. Goati further finds out – the PUPS has long been, before the Monetary Fund and the Fiscal Council are almost the only one on Serbia's political scene in favour of establishing order in the area of pension and disability insurance and for an agreement on rules governing the amount of pensions. There should probably be reasons why the party insists on launching a broad public debate on the reform of the PIO system, for its part PUPS proposes a 3P formula, i.e. pensions following wages. Perhaps in the upcoming debate there will be a better solution, but the formula presented is, in my opinion, simple and acceptable. This avoids thinking about whether the correct methodology for calculating consumer basket prices is, what is the actual price rise for a little, whether GDP growth is more than 4% or not. The PUPS sees the proposed formula as acceptable for the largest number of pensioners, which can be supplemented or modified, Goati stresses. PUPS proposals, the PUPS has its own concept of reform and proposals for the system to be sustainable. One of the proposals is for companies with a technologically intensive process of work to launch an initiative to form the so-called a technical and technological solidarity fund for pension payments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49356	Thanks, time. The next speaker is Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49357	Dear chairman, fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, God helps all. My first question is headed towards the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Maji Gojkovic. The Serbian Movement Group Dvora has again submitted a request for the maintenance of a special one, and I would say the extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija. This is the third time in three years this calls upon the National Assembly to propose a special session of the National Assembly on the most alarming and important national and state topic and yet to be held. We are all aware of how difficult the situation is right now in Kosovo and Metohija, and it is amazing that everyone in the world is discussing it except the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When you add all the headlines of the daily newspaper today, such as "Blica", where Serbian President Alexander Vukic's great friend Edi Rama supports the formation of a great Albania, along with so-called "Blica". In independent Kosovo, then we should also discuss this topic at this special session on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, where we would like to analyse the effect of the diplomacy of Aleksandr Vukic and the actions of his friends, such as Eddie Rama, who wants to make a great Albania in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The second issue also goes to the National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic – when will he schedule a special session on more than the current topic of the assassination attempt by one opposition leader, concrete physical beating and attempted murder of Borko Stefanovic, left Serbian leader and one of the 10 leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, as Serbia's largest opposition group at the moment? I will remind the public that besides Borko Stefanovic, two other people from the left of Serbia and a police officer who was on official duty were physically brutally beaten, in the local community of Rasadnik in Krusevec. So, criminals close to the government, not only went into physical battle with opposition leaders and political opponents, but also with officers on official duty. Well, you can now see the security situation in Serbia and how much the criminal team has torn off, even from your authority to which it serves. I would also ask that we know the identity of these batinian thugs, not only initials, so that you can't erase all their links on the internet with SNS and with you, as likely employers of this physical beating, or at least find out who the employers are and I don't see, if you have nothing hidden behind it, why not be a special session on this one, and how the current topic, because where in Europe, the opposition leaders are beating up at the moment, except in Serbia? Also, the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ani Brnabic, is it necessary, as in France, to all put yellow vests on the streets of Belgrade, to finally reduce the price of fuel, to finally reduce excise duties and VAT on fuel, in order to allow people in Serbia to live normally, with a normal price of diesel fuel, primarily farmers, carriers, and everyone else? So, does it take all of us to wear yellow vests and go out to the Belgrade streets, do you need clashes with the police, like in France, in order for you to come to your senses and stop robbing Serbian citizens? Also, I would like to inform the public, i.e. I am asking the Serbian President, Alexander Vukic, that I have accepted his call for a direct television duel which he scheduled last night by visiting the "Eye" show on RTS, that as leader of one of the opposition parliamentary groups I accept an invitation to this direct television duel and expect the RTS to make an urgent appointment on the basis of SNS President Alexander Vukic's promise. Finally, an important issue, also to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, will inform us about the escape of the German company "Serfud" from Smederev, which suddenly evaporated and disappeared after two years of work, and was a major investment that handed over the keys to Alexander Vukic himself as the then prime minister. In fact, this German company, Smederevo, built an entire hall worth three hundred million dinars, taking credit for it. Aleksandra Vukic personally opened this German company. Three hundred workers were promised, only 60 were employed, at the end of 25, at the end of a viber group informed that everything had been nailed and that German investors had disappeared and fled Serbia. Is it the fate of all the major Vucician investments that are only at the expense of our country and our domestic economic interest? Is everyone gonna run away?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49358	The word has Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49359	I thank the chairman. My first question is the same about Smederevo, so I refer the first question to the Minister of Environmental Protection, Mr. Trivan, the factory "Smederevo Iron" and what citizens, browners, are now practically covered with one kind of, one red dust, which is precisely from this factory. On several occasions, the Council Group, which operates in the City Assembly, which is called "Became Smederevo", pointed to this problem and carried out a more serious analysis than the Minister for Environmental Protection, which apparently did not deal with this issue more seriously and warned the citizens of Smederev about what was happening. So on October 8th on their Facebook page, they asked the citizens if they were enjoying clean air today, and on that day the quality of air in the centre of Smederev by category was highly polluted. The largest pollution was caused by a huge amount of suspended particles of roughly ten micrometers, which were about 210 micrograms per metre of cubic and fine particles, which were approximately two and a half micrometer in diameter and at the same time about 180 micrograms per metre of cubic at the same time. This factography does not serve to impress anyone, but to simply warn this, and they did so on their page and said that both and other particles are among the most dangerous air pollutants, because they are deposited in the deepest parts of the respiratory organs, causing or strengthening asthma, bronchitis, or other lung diseases, thereby reducing the overall resistance of the organism. Particles that are fine, which are two micrometer diameter, can cause negative effects in short exposure, for example, from just one day. These are instructions for the citizens of Smederev they posted on their Facebook page on October 8th. Nothing has changed in the meantime, the Ministry of Environment has not warned the factory, "Smederevo Iron" to set appropriate filters, so that this does not happen more and again on October 18th to warn the citizens of Smederevo, precisely because of the presence of this red dust, which is extremely damaging to the citizens and, among other things, has not been mentioned, people with heart or lung disease, the old and children should avoid heavy physical effort in the open air, all others should reduce exposure times and the weight of physical activities in the open area, it is not recommended to participate in the conduct of closed rooms. Is it normal that in the 21st century you get this kind of warning for the citizens of a city, it's practically just amazing? We ask the Minister for Environmental Protection when and what is he planning to do about this problem in Smederev? As for the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, I still have a big problem with its application and this time I ask the Minister for Labour, how did we get one compensation to exclude the other and what the means are for, in fact, supporting families who want to have a third child, since when they, or do they expand their family, get a third child’s right to a child supplement automatically? One compensation has practically excluded the other, which means that the budget does not provide certain and sufficient resources for the application of this law. As far as my last question is concerned, he's being referred to by the finance minister. We are closer to discussing the budget, unfortunately we do not have a final account, or we do not have the budget for the previous one, or for a number of previous years, since we have a new finance minister, I ask him when we will get the budget for all the years that are missing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49360	Thank you. You have received honourable MPs from the resignation of Parliamentarians Dusan Pavlovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic and Dr Ratko Jankovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report from the committee responsible for examining these resignations, which he found to be the case of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and suggests that the National Assembly determines the end of the term of office for these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. Law on the selection of MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which MPs Dusan Pavlovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic and Dr Ratko Jankov were elected on the day of their resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. The next speaker is Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49361	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking the question not to the President of the Republic, not to the Prime Minister of the Republic, but to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia. Over half a year ago, Oliver Ivanovic was killed. Then it was said that in a few days, it would be said who killed him. That's what the president of the Republic of Serbia said in a public address. Until last night, we didn't have a chance to hear a single word of the ongoing investigation, but we heard that the investigation was definitely closed as far as one of the people mentioned as a suspect in public, it was Mr. Radojicicic. He was suspected by Oliver Ivanovic publicly in front of the media, the public while he was still alive. What has appalled many who have finished, for example, law school, is that it has been said that it has agreed to be on a polygraph, that it has passed a polygraph and that we have certainly found that it has definitely not affected that crime in any way. A polygraph is not evidence in court, and that's what's true. That's what citizens need to know. The polygraph isn't evidence in court. After that, on Friday, November 23rd, last Friday, an assassination attempt was made on Borislav Stefanovic, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia. The doctors said that only a few inches down was in the back of the back of the head to keep him dead. He was waiting for people organized outside the hall where the stands were to be held, someone organized them, someone told them where Borislav Stefanovic would pass, waited for him and almost killed him. I will remind you that Marko Parezanovic is as senior BIA chief, and we have been referring to this for several months, saying that we are a threat to Serbia, that it is part of the opposition threat to Serbia, that part of the media is a threat to Serbia, that it is part of the NGO sector and the union threat to Serbia. And now, following Oliver Ivanovic's murder as one of the opposition leaders in Serbia, an assassination attempt was made on Borislav Stefanovic, left-wing leader and one of the Alliance for Serbia's leaders. One more thing happened in the meantime -- that an official, one Serbian Progressive Party MP, said on the social network, Vuk Jeremic, that he would end up as Zoran Djindjic. It is a threat to life, also one of the opposition leaders in Serbia. So, between the assassination of Oliver Ivanovic, the assassination of Borislav Stefanovic, the threat of the death of Vuk Jeremic, and what the senior BIA leader Marko Parezanovic said, there is a link, between what the media are saying, between the media and the political support this regime provides with these criminal acts. Once on Oliver Ivanovic, then, in the last few days, on Borislav Stefanovic, on Vuk Jeremic, for weeks, he says that no one is safe in Serbia anymore. I call on the D.A. to understand that this is a matter of their own, of their own business. Whether someone else loses their head or not depends on what they do in the future. We have no doubt that someone staged this attack on Borislav Stefanovic. We have no doubt that Gasic's closest associates, who were chiefs of the Krusevec security sector, knew about these people from the criminal mileage, knew their movements, knew who they were, what crimes they were doing in the past. You can't convince us that everything is normal in Serbia today. We're not talking about what's been happening for the last six years to the Democratic Party - beatings, threats, arrests, cherries, destruction. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about what's happening to others. I'm talking about what's going on with Borko Stefanovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49362	Thank you. Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49363	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the autobiographical work of Balša Bozovic and Boško Obradovica, called "Baron Minhauzen". No wonder it's printed on yellow. I don't know why Christmas is so angry today. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first little introduction. For what he changed the nation to come to the Assembly, I expect him to change the sex next time, and pass on to this slightly less-represented half... (Vojislav Seselj: Who do you mean? )......................................................................................................... Djordje Vukadinovic, who changed his nationality to get hold of the assembly. So, ladies and gentlemen, France didn't slap Serbia. France slapped itself, wishing to translate the World War I event into today's circumstances, to carry out a review, it presented Serbia and the Serbian representative, at the celebration and marking, as guilty. France did not humiliate and slap Serbia, but officially France slapped itself. Not only France is Makron, France is also that officer Binel, who provided information to Serbs. France is Gujon, not just Makron. I, too, would be at the place of what changed the nation, and I believe that it will change half, be careful in condemning France. Ladies and gentlemen, my questions are next. As a victim of political violence, which was beaten in Belgrade as a presidential candidate in 2008, with the presence of a journalist, Sarapa, who was then working in city television "Studio B", I strongly condemned the violence that took place against political opponent Borko Stefanovic. Although he, neither he nor Tadic nor Jeremic nor Djilas, condemned the violence. They didn't send the police to find out, they sent them to cover it up. They didn't send the police to protect, they sent them to fight. While today, we show in practice that we don't look like them. But since they have become the servants of Shipara from Kosovo, I ask them – if they think that the Serbs killed Oliver Ivanovic and seek to discover the murderers, I am rightfully asking for the discovery of the children's murderers in Gorazdevac, Bistrica, who were killed during their reign, to tell me who were the perpetrators of the disgusting act. I don't think they're Serbs. Also, to answer me why they're covering up who picked up the bus to Zastupnica, 2002, in Podujevo, with 12 dead and 43 wounded. If they ask what happened in Kosovo a few days ago, and it's mine to ask what happened to killing these people, since they obviously have an extraordinary co-operation with Haradinaj in the destruction of Serbia's state. I'm still asking - who killed the journalist Pantic? When did you discover the perpetrators of this Jagodina murder? Furthermore, who killed Ranko Panic? Why did you cover up a five- or six-year murder of a protesters in peaceful demonstrations that you killed, or sent the police to do so, and beat up opposition leaders? I'm undermining again - who beat Velja Ilic as a political opponent in 2009 at his apartment? Who beat Velja Ilic with Zoran Djindjic's tattoo on his hand at a public rally in Prince Michael's? Who killed all those people? Most importantly, in 2004, during Tadic, Jeremic, Dilas, Borko Stefanovic's government, who killed two guard soldiers at Karas in Banjaca, at the military facility Karas? Who killed them? Why didn't you find the perpetrators? Why was the military facility a shock to your drug friends with 1.5 tons of drugs? You've never discovered a soldier killer on Karash. We're not gonna look like you. We will not hide as you beat up candidates and journalists in downtown Belgrade under video surveillance. We want anyone who commits violence to be exposed. We don't want to look like you, and you, the house servant of Ramush Haradinaj, I advise you, be against us, be against the authorities, but don't be against your country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49364	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49365	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday in New York, the trial of Patrick Hou, former Hong Kong Police Minister and close associate and great friend Vuk Jeremic began. Namely, he is accused of various crimes, including money laundering, corruption, but also of illegal arms trafficking with many countries – Qatar, Libya and South Sudan. What's particularly interesting to us here is that today, in this process, the witness is just Vuk Jeremic, his friend and associate who has been getting huge sums of money from Patrick Hoe for years. I think this will be an ideal opportunity for Vuk Jeremic to finally explain everything about the relationship he had with Patrick Ho, to find out the final nature of their relationship, to find out in detail what all links Vuk Jeremic had with him and why he was getting huge amounts of money from him. My question was addressed to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime – did they launch an investigation against Vuk Jeremic, given the new circumstances and his financial arrangements with Patrick Ho? For months, the media said that Vuk Jeremic had been getting huge amounts of money for years, so only from 2013 to 2015, 764,000 dollars was paid to Vuk Jeremic PR Consuling Agency. Then, in 2014, a million dollars was paid to the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development. So that's his NGO. This all raises suspicion that Jeremic himself is involved in this affair that shakes almost the whole world, and I think it is necessary to investigate the prosecution of organised crime, in order to determine whether Jeremic is involved in international crime. It is particularly symptomatic that, according to the media, Jeremic's involvement with an expensive lawyer, an American lawyer, who is known not to work for less than a million dollars, is what the media today is saying, that he paid him a million dollars to represent him in this case. What's Wolf Jeremic afraid of? What's he afraid of when he had to hire the most expensive lawyer and pay him a million dollars? I would also like to remind you that Vuk Jeremic owes answers to the question – did he get $200,000 from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin? Did he get, and for what purpose did he get that money? My second question concerns another tycoon among politicians, which is Dragan Gilas, and regarding his assets. Is it true that during the term of the mayoral term of his firm's related companies, 300m euros were in receipt and counting on the previous period when he was not mayor, but when he also exercised power did he earn a total of 500m euros? Is it true that during that time Dragan Gilas was, or was he still, owner or co-owner of as many as 26 companies? Is his property, only in real estate, is his property worth 24 million 375 thousand euros? If all this is true, and these don't say Alexander Vukic, this isn't said by anyone in SNS, these are KRIK's data, this is extracted from KRIK's property base, so if this is all true, will someone investigate how this is possible? Will someone ask you a question where did you get that kind of money? Where did you get all this real estate? Where did all these apartments come from? Where'd you get all this property? Just in time, when he exercised power, when his party was in power, when he himself was either the director of this national office or the minister, or the mayor of Belgrade, particularly the mayor of Belgrade, to make such incomes, enormous revenues? Instead of answering those questions, he attacks foreign investors again. It almost doesn't pass a day without being brought down by foreign investors. One, and the other day he threatened foreign investors, he said when they came to power he would take away their property. What kind of message is sent by that? What kind of message is being sent? We don't want foreign investors, we don't want economic growth, we don't want investment, we don't want stability, we don't want new jobs. Is that the policy she's representing?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49366	Thanks, time. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs, which is Marija Vidinovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time from the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to approach the draft agenda as soon as possible. You have been presented the minutes of the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 21st, 24, 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th and 29th September 2018. I conclude the vote and find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 10th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda. First, the laws are laid down by emergency procedure, and then we move on to additions. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee (Project of the Zemun Technical Passenger Station – Phase 2) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, by emergency procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that 129 MPs voted in favour. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the NKK on the security of the Republic of Serbia's concession loan to the NKB. Not to say again, on an urgent agenda procedure, that's the essence of the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 139 MPs voted in favour. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty on a State Concessional Loan for a bypass project around Belgrade on the E70/E75 highway, a section: Bridge over the Sava River near Ostružnica – Bubanj Potok (Sections 4, 5 and 6) between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and a Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender. I conclude the vote and declare: 138 MPs voted in favour. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting the vote on an urgent procedure to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on granting consent to a decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's 2018 financial plan. I conclude the vote and declare: 132 MPs voted in favour. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting it to the vote that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes of public funds users, is to be placed on the agenda. I conclude the vote and declare: 132 MPs voted in favour. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote to put the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank's law on bankruptcy on the agenda, according to an urgent procedure. I conclude the vote and declare: 131 MPs voted for it. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, according to an emergency procedure. Finalising vote: for – 131 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, by emergency procedure. Finalising vote: for – 130 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law on the Republic of Serbia Science Fund, by emergency procedure. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I am putting the vote on the agenda to put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the registration procedure in the Immobility and Waters Catalogue. Finalising vote: for – 131 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote to put the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of Social General Bank of Serbia a.d., Commercial Banka a.d., Banke Post office a.d., OTP banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad and Vojvodjanska banka a.d. Novi Sad under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, on the basis of a credit agreement for the construction of a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia. Finalising vote: for – 130 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Community Labour Act. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intes a.d. Belgrade, to settle the obligations of the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" Novi Sad under the Treaty of Credit for the Construction of the Water Gas pipeline Alexandrovac - Brus - Kopalnik - Raška - Novi Pazar - Tutin (II phase). Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law. Finalising vote: for – 130 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. Finalising vote: for – 130 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling. Finalising vote: for – 130 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, to be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure. Finalising vote: for – 131 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Finalising vote: for – 130 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Debt. Finalising vote: for – 128 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the property tax law. Finalising vote: for – 129 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the Mining-Topier Baseline RTB Bor d.o.o. Bor. Finalising vote: for – 131 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex No 1 of the Niš-Dimitrovgrad Financial Treaty, from 31 January 2018, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Finalising vote: for – 129 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I'm putting a vote on the Customs Service Bill. Finalising vote: for – 129 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on the return of the seized property and the compensation. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Finalising vote: for – 129 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. Finalising vote: for – 131 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. Finalising vote: for – 131 MPs. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government. Finalising vote: for – 130. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. Finalising vote: for – 130. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees. Finalising vote: for – 129. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting the vote on the agenda of the draft Law amending the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. Finalising vote: for – 129. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting the vote on the agenda to put in place a draft law amending the Law on Public Service Employees. Final vote: 129. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote to put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. Finalising vote: for – 131. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. Finalising vote: for – 130. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am voting on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, with the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2019, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2019, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service for 2019 and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the European Social Insurance Fund for the year 2019. Finalising vote: for – 131. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I'm putting the draft law on radiation and nuclear safety and security to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 131. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Time Act of the crew of the vehicle in road transport and tachographs. Finalising vote: for – 130. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Investment Act. Finalising vote: for – 129. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the provisional regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services. Finalising vote: for – 127. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote to include the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documents in order to implement the construction of the natural gas transport system "South Stream". Finalising vote: for – 130. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the inspection law. Finalising vote: for – 130. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put the draft law on public goods benefits to be voted on. Finalising vote: for – 129. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which was proposed by the High Council of the judiciary on 9 November this year. Finalising vote: for – 131. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the president of the courts, who proposed the High Council of the judiciary on 9 November this year. Finalising vote: for – 131. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law to be included in the agenda Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 22. The General Administrative Procedure Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), number 18/16. Finalising vote: for – 130. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to include on the agenda the Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 37, paragraph 1-3, paragraph 4) and Article 147. The Act of Labour (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia) No. 24/05, 61/05, 54/09, 32/13, 75/14, 13/17-US and 113/17). Finalising vote: for – 129. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending The proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. Finalising vote: for – 130. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media for 2019. I conclude the vote: 131 MPs voted for it. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision to give consent to changes in individual expenditure without changing the total expenditure of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media for 2018. I conclude the vote: 130 MPs voted in favour. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and State Administration and the local self-government to include the motion for a decision on the termination of the position of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court on the agenda of the session. I conclude the vote: 132 MPs voted in favour. I find that a proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the State's Council of Prosecutors' proposal to put the draft decision on the election of the deputy Public Prosecutor as of 23 November this year. I conclude the vote: 131 MPs voted for it. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I would like to put the motion for MPs Srdjan Nog and Zoran Radojić to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the disappearance of military and state documents from the archive of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. I conclude the vote: six MPs voted for it. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the draft Parliament Group of Dvera to be on the agenda, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. We're going over to the agenda. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49367	Thank you, Chairman. Excuse me, can you repeat the military or the defense? Defense. Okay. This is an extremely important law, as is the defence system, an extremely important system, both for us and for the whole country, and for the environment in which we live. I must say immediately that I do not expect the SNS to accept the proposed amendments and additions to the Defence Act, because it is clear what kind of relationship the SNS has to do with the overall security system, and therefore also in the defence system when it was able to set up a deserter for the Secretary of Defense, i.e. Alexander Vulin. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(1) and points 4, 6 and 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for Serbia to regulate and ensure the security of all its citizens regardless of religious, national and political membership, could stand before the ruling majority's MPs to know that political, religious and national belongings are not important and thus treat all citizens equally. The defense law is, above all, insufficient and does not provide answers to essential questions. One reason is the obsolescence of basic strategic documents, but also the neglect of current security assessments both in our country's territory and in the territory of the entire region and in the global and regional environment. It is essential, first of all, to establish compliance with other compatible laws, and first of all to establish an agreement with the Emergency Law, because it is not good for the state, it is not normal, after all, that we do not have compatibility between the Defence Act and the Emergency Act. With these amendments and additions, we proposed, first of all, the amendment of eight members of the law. It is, above all, good for not one political party, but for the system of defence in general. I thank the generals, and Radojićic and Malinović, who helped us deliver these amendments and additions to the Defence Act. I would really like you to explain to the citizens and members of the Ministry of Defence - why don't you accept amendments and additions to the Defence Act? If the problem is that I or someone from the DS parliamentary group, we have no problem giving up. You suggest it, but I'm sure these changes and additions to the Defense Act are good for the overall security system, and you can ask people who work in the defense system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49368	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49369	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens, the DS proposes to amend and supplement the law on local self-government because it is equally important to us that people live in both Surdulica and Subotica, both in Novi Sad and in Belgrade and in Osecina, unlike you in SNS who take care of citizens periodically and in line with where they have elections. At present, the most important citizens of Luciana are currently the most important citizens of Kladova, Doljevac and Kula because in these municipalities they are taking place under the patronage of SNS, another election in which you have been harassing, beating, stalking and buying votes, which is your manner for the past seven years, as far as you are in power. That is why the DS proposes to return five billion dinars to local self-government, how much Ana Brnabic has taken from them as the previous minister of state administration and local self-government, and since you are also calling for Europe to see little about how it is in European countries. The European Charter, which Serbia ratified in 2007, against which you were then changed to radical uniforms, guarantees all local self-government political, administrative and financial independence. No local self-government has political or financial independence. I know that the financial and political independence of the local self-government bar in the district from which I come, which is Podunavski, is decided by some Branko Malovic who did not run in the elections, whom the citizens did not choose. You're humiliating the mayor's transfer and the mayor's presidents. They do not respond to their citizens who choose them and who need to respond, but they do respond to party fighters like Zelja and like Branko Malovic and your SNS fighters, which lowers the system of democracy in general. The European Union has slightly different principles. In the EU, half of total revenues go to local self-government, and half go to the government of the Republic of Serbia, while in our country only 10.2% of total budget revenues go to local self-government. You're doing this on purpose, 50 billion you took from local self-government. You took their bridges, you took their roads, and then you gave them from the current budget reserve. Whoever obeys you, you give him money, who is not obedient to the party dictatorship of the SNS, don't give him the money from the budget and declare him an incompetent mayor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49370	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – five. Can not get message: %s %s National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49371	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to announce to you, across the street, that the government is variable, and you will see it very quickly in some upcoming elections, and I ask you to adopt the Law on Public Information and the media. I do not believe that there is even one single MP among you who believes that for seven years there has been objective, journalism, honor for exceptions, 99% of the media is under direct control by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, your ministers, Alexander Vukic and his listeners. Anyone who speaks differently, anyone who has the courage to say something against the system and the rule of the SNS gets headlines. I'm proud of getting headlines from your regimeal media, people being harassed by families, people calling themselves the ugliest names, and that's not good. If you really want the democracy that you stand for, you adopt the information law, you open the media, you go to TV duels, that Serbian citizens can see the arguments that you have, which are lies, and the arguments that we have in the DS. About your rule and pressure on the media tells us that during 2013, there were 23 attacks on journalists, and then you were faster, stronger, in 2017, we had 54 attacks on journalists. You didn't shed any light on the attack on the press at the inauguration of the President of the Republic. You have mutilated the media prosthetic Serbia, which for many years will not be able to recover from you. You cut this budget by giving it to culture, but you put it there to give money to Tanjug, and to other agencies that are directly under your control. That's also not good. You want to present to the citizens of Serbia, where it is abnormal to have "The impression of the week" in Serbia, where it is abnormal to have "The Vranjska novine" and that Serbia is Lav Pajkic. The DS will never agree that normal journalism is Lav Pajkic and their shameful show, which only tells lies about members of the opposition and citizens who do not think like you from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49372	Please, just so that we as the Assembly are fenced from your attack on any journalist in this country. So your relationship with someone you like or don't like, but don't attack the press here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – no one, abstention – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Social Protection Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49373	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97, point 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we propose three concrete things that will improve life, primarily students whose parents do not. I propose that all students whose parents do not work be provided with money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, free transportation, free lunch and free textbook. I'd like to know, since it says basic education is mandatory, that parents who have two children, and a set of books costs 12, 15 or 20,000 dinars to provide their children with a book, and primary education is mandatory. It's a contradiction. About 50,000 children, which are covered by primary and secondary education, are hungry every day, and we had the latest data to support this, unfortunately. No one can look forward to this fact no matter what party it comes from. Fifty thousand children are hungry every day, while you from SNS are setting up tenders for your tycoons, your criminals and putting money in your pockets, using various mobsters and various combinations. That's not the kind of Serbia the DS wants. We also have an example of a boy from Moll, whom I was talking about, who first left the third grade of high school in Vienna, because he didn't have money to transport from house to school. We know how, unfortunately, that tragic case ended. In 2015, the share of children in Serbia's total population was only 17.3%, today even lower, and these are devastating facts. I don't know why you don't accept these amendments to the law? The Democratic Party proposes that the ministry finance free out-of-body fertilisation for all people who cannot be realised as parents. Serbia is the leader in the region, but unfortunately only at the risk of poverty. We are the first country in the region at risk of poverty rates. I hope you adopt these amendments and additions to the law. We can build bridges and build roads, but we cannot allow children who are the future of every country and ours to be hungry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49374	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the Smederjevska Palanka Assembly, Radoslav Milojic and the non-intentional spending of funds. Does anyone want a word? The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49375	I thank the chairman. It is clear from the title that there is a need for the National Assembly to determine through an epilogue committee of inquiry, but also all insubordinations, carried out by previous speaker Radoslav Milojic as he served as president of the Municipality of Smederevska Palanka. The epilogue of his government in that city was minuses, losses and debts. The city's total debts at the moment the previous speaker left power were more than three billion dinars. So completely destroyed the city, destroyed in every sense, left that city without electricity and without water and with accumulated debts. I'm only going to give you one example of what it looked like in their time. The municipal government in Smederjevska Palanca, while he held the post to buy land, or the House of the Army from the Ministry of Defence, when the minister was Dragan Sutanovac for 33m and 165,000 dinars. The municipality then pays more than two million dinars to the old owners on behalf of the purchase of land, and then they pay four million more 835,000 dinars on behalf of the destruction of buildings on that land. So, a total of over 40 million dinars invest in the whole project. Then they take all this together, brilliantly, so they sell Delese Serbia for 26 and a half million dinars and in the most direct way damage the budget for more than 13.5 million dinars. So they buy something for 40 million dinars, sell it for 26 and a half million dinars. That's how they led Serbia, that's how they run municipalities and cities. This was only one in a series of examples of how Radoslav Milojic specifically managed the city. We have a million examples. So we remember that for one night he drank 343 beers in a café, which he normally liked to perform his function, except that he was supposed to be in the municipality building doing the job of the president of the municipality, he had a local bar where he sat and drank for one night 343 beers. This was all paid by the citizens of Smederevska Palanka, therefore, through the community account. We remember when he used to beat people up, attack people on the street. There was one case that accused him directly and some of his friends, who were otherwise known in that town as Ken's tigers, all of Smederjevska Palanka knew it. That's why I think the National Assembly would have to establish all the affairs whose vinence was just Radoslav Milojic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49376	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 11. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49377	I'm glad that right now it's an amendment to the Police Act and I call on the police to take a statement from the previous speaker, i.e. MP Aleksandr Markovic on the House of the Army, and if I have signed any papers, I am resigning as MP, if I have not signed, I call on Mr Markovic to resign as MP. But, well, a lie is an integral part of SNS policy and we from the DS want to propose a concrete measure to make it possible to improve the members of the MUP. The proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act are necessary in view of the situation in which the members of the MUP are present. The situation is that they have been reduced, primarily by the SNS, and then the SNS has reduced their diaries as well. A journal for cops, soldiers, people who risk their lives provide us and our country is 150 dinars. For those 150 dinars, they can buy a glass of yogurt and a muffin and nothing else. We propose two key changes to the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of the system and that according to that, staff schools at the Police Academy. We must not allow young, educated, educated people in whom the state invested, who finish a very specific school, it is a very specific activity, and end the Police Academy, to stay on the street, not to be accepted by the state and not to ensure that those she has trained, to provide them with a job. The second concrete point is that the provisions of Article 172(2). The law on police, destroys the presumption of innocence, and I suggest that it be erased and that's two specific things the DS is proposing. We must not allow young educated and educated people who finish the Police Academy to stay on the street while Martinović and Orlic have seven salaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49378	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49379	With great disappointment, I must say, you have succeeded in destroying the Army. What never worked out for anyone, it worked for you from the SNS. We propose a concrete amendment to the 18 members of the Military Act. I hope at least someone reads these proposed changes and additions. I know it's funny for you SNS, but it's not funny that we don't have the Army Act and the Defense Act. I know it's funny to you from SNS, you've changed five ministers in seven years of your boast and corrupt rule, and every SNS minister is worse than his predecessor at the Ministry of Defense. I know it's funny to you, Mr. Orlic and Martinovic, because you have seven salaries, while 80% of Serbian Army members have lower earnings than the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Seventy percent of civilians, Mr. Orlic and Martinovic, since it's funny to you, Serbia's military earns 22,000 dinars, while you have six, seven, I don't even know how many salaries, 72% of Serbian military members who left Serbia's Army, did so on a personal request. I don't see anything funny here. Srdjan Ristic, who is Ginis's recorder, a guy we should be proud of, left Serbia's Army, for small incomes. I know that's funny to you, because you're sitting in armored cars, in leather chairs, you don't think about how soldiers patch up the end. Eight hundred professional soldiers have left the country and left the country every year, counting since 2014, eight hundred professional soldiers. People who are professional, trained for the work they do and you think it's funny. I don't see that anything's funny, and it's even less funny to people who risk their lives, doing the most difficult jobs for our country, coming home and getting, or getting a phone message that they can't get a kid a snack, that they can't buy a kid shoes for school, that they can't buy him books, while you from SNS have seven or eight salaries, while every day you steal more and more from Serbian citizens, from soldiers, from cops, from nurses, from teachers, from ordinary workers and ordinary farmers. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49380	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – five. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojic, suggested that the agenda be completed by the Military Security Agency – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unauthorized listening by the Military Security Agency, which, without a court decision, has been spying on political parties, union leaders and individual judges. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy to the Shining Vehicles “Gosa” from Smederjevska Palanka. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former President SO Smederjevska Palanka Radoslav Milojic and the non-intentional spending of funds. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, not to be deceived, is in my hand a letter from the Smederev Public Prosecutor's Office saying that before the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, there is a pre-criminal procedure, which refers to reported abuses in the purchase and sale of land and facilities of former JNA homes in Smederjevska Palanca. Also, a second letter from the police, claiming that the Smedereva Police Administration has acted on a number of requirements, etc., the General and Higher Prosecutor's Office, in connection with the abuse of SO Smederjevska Palanka, etc. Why is this case still sticking in the D.A.'s drawer in Smederev? That's not an answer for me, and I shouldn't be pressured, but since I've received these answers, I'm obliged to inform the public that during the pre-criminal proceedings at the Smederev High Prosecutor's Office and the Smederev Public Prosecutor's Office about the abuse committed by Mr. Milojic, who is known as Heine Kena, because of the abuses committed in the Smederevska Palanka municipality? I'm a supporter of children not to be hungry, but when someone from the municipal budget says that they drank 470,000 dinars for one night, or 4,700 children's breakfasts, then I think it's hypocritical. When someone who advocates the army, when someone drinks one tank for that evening, because his party mate sold tanks for 5,000 euros, and that's exactly the amount he drank for one night. So it's a person who, as president of the municipality, managed to drink one tank for one night. So when someone claims it, and here I have several items and abuses for a total of three to four budgets of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, they personally burden him in processed documents that they spoke of for the abuses of 459,110,885 dinars. That was the amount when I got the data six months ago, I believe the interest thing comes out a lot more and just to turn it into those breakfasts we'll get it's 4.500,000 breakfasts for the kids. And when someone's talking about our children starving, they should say that their personal income has grown.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49382	Time. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – five. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – four. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Court within a reasonable period of time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Budgetary System Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all relevant facts and circumstances that preceded and led to a decision on the extradition of a Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin Djevdet Ajaz to Turkey, as well as the determination of the responsibility of all the authorities in this case. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for -three. This proposal was not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision by Maja Vidinovic on the education of the polling committee to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that occurred before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal of Parliament of the People's Parliament Vesna Marjanović to supplement the agenda of the session with the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Dragoljub Micunovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. Finalising vote: in – five. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by MP Veroljub Stevanović to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the winding-up procedure "Such insurance". Finalising vote: for -three. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Dejan Nikolic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Dejan Nikolic to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49383	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is one of the laws I have been proposing for some time, and above all the aim is to establish a more just regional and primarily social distribution in Serbia. The proposal for this law is simple. This assembly has made a decision, on a proposal by the Minister of Business, to increase the corporate tax rate from 10 per cent to 15%, and this proposal suggests making the corporate income tax rate variable and to be 10-30 per cent, in correlation with the average net earnings per employee, according to statistical territorial units. The aim of this proposal is primarily to motivate employers and business owners to stimulate their workers and to pay for them to make them legal and, of course, to encourage the higher wage power of workers, greater credit power, and thus to boost the market in the building and, of course, in retailes. The goal is for all those who pay the average profit in the ranking between 80 and 150% to be kept at this rate of 15% and for all employers who pay less than 80% of the average earnings in the statistical region to be obliged to pay a net profit of 30%. This would destimulate them to raise that share of their profits and pay the salaries to the workers, thus not paying or contributing, and thus lower tax revenues to the state. For those who pay more than 150% of the average in their statistical region, the profit tax rate would be stimulating and would be lower than these 15%, so it would be 10%. Once again, it is one of the simple proposals, one of the proposals that can go towards reducing social differences in Serbia, towards the path of motivation of business owners, employers and many who are now stimulated by the state by having subsidies, and we see that a large level of subsidy is also planned in this budget that is now ahead of us and this assembly session, and that they pay minimum salaries and I think that this is something that is inadmissible, and this is one of the models and ways to correct that injustice against workers who invest their work and who, I'm sure, would be much more motivated if we had bigger and legally paid earnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49384	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour, and I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49385	The essence of this law is also to reduce social differences. It is a motive to include dividend incomes in income subject to annual income tax. In this way, social inequality would be mitigated among citizens and certainly more justly vertical and horizontal taxation. I think we are obliged to discuss in this home the current social status of Serbia's largest population. There is little talk of poverty, and we have seen in public that the current finance minister is also talking about it, and the Prime Minister, that this is the budget that will be our theme for the next few days, with a strong social component. Unfortunately, we see a billion less planned funds to cover the social needs of those most vulnerable in Serbia. We'll see about that in the next debate. But when we go from the data that is very rarely available to our public, and especially here, we talk a little about how much the average consumer basket is at this point, it is 71 thousand dinars, and the term minimum consumer baskets of 37,000 dinars has been introduced, so at least 37,000 dinars are required by the family statistics to put an end to the end, from 1 to 31 in the month. The poverty line, according to official data, is 11500 dinars per capita, and 31,500 dinars for a four-member family with children under 14 years old. It is clear when you compare this data that the minimum consumer basket is 37,000 dinars, and that this poverty line is defined by 31,500, that 8% of the population is below the minimum poverty line. So 8% is 560,000 citizens in Serbia who are below that limit. How much is in that margin from 31,500 to 37,000, what is the minimum consumer basket? So that number and percent significantly, is growing significantly. This also confirms that nearly 40% of Serbian citizens are at high risk of poverty, near this 37,000 dinar border needed for a minimum consumer basket. So 40% of the population is a huge number and therefore this law deserves our attention and I ask you to support these changes. It would be important to talk about it in this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49386	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 12 MPs voted in favour, and I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, because of the need for the Assembly to adopt today's agenda for this session. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49387	The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act is simple and the proposal implies that Article 58 of this Act adds Article 2 which reads, reads and becomes more clear what the essence of this proposal means: "A special organisational part of the tax administration is formed by means of a sublaw act, with specially trained personnel who would, in cooperation with other state bodies, the MUP, the cadastre, the National Bank of Serbia, the Customs Administration, the Central Charter Register of Values, the APR, the Treasury Department, the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, etc., process submitted applications as a verification of applicants who have not filed an application." The aim of this law and the basic idea is to make more effective comparisons of natural persons' assets with their reported incomes. In the present state of affairs, to the most extent possible, it can be concluded that no one in the tax administration is working on these jobs, nor is an information application submitted. The aim is to achieve a higher collection of tax revenues and achieve a higher degree of social justice, and in the next step enables harmonisation of tax laws with the Property Origin Act, whose production is under way, at least according to all the announcements. So, many politicians in Serbia or almost all of them are talking about the Law on the Origin of Assets, and this is one of the ways, simpler ways that with the existing mechanisms that have all these institutions that I have listed, to examine the origins of the property of people who cannot prove their incomes, their incomes, and this can be determined through the analysis of the tax obligations they had towards this country. It is clear, too, and I have spoken more than once about the fact that the most honest thing in this regard is that we come by ourselves here in the Assembly, but above all from people who are in public office, from the President of the State, the Prime Minister, all ministers, all MPs, and of course all those people who are responsible for public life in Serbia. It is necessary to display your income during working life and prove the property you have and the origin of that property. One example is, if you have entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 1990s, you are involved in politics and have an average salary, and this is easy to prove, since the average salary has been around 5 euros since 1993, it is now of course significantly higher than 700 euros. The maximum amount of the average salary from the 90th to, say, 2012 would be about 500 euros, the average salary. In twelve months, that's six thousand.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49388	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Thank you. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour, and I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Goran Ciric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49389	The aim of this law is certainly more balanced regional development, and since this is the introduction of a session to discuss the budget, it is necessary to tell and inform the citizens of Serbia, and I think that you have been informed even though it was a short time to get to know the budget and all sections, that 33 billion are planned as planned in this year as well as for last year for the needs of local self-government in transfers to citizens where a specific problem is being solved. We all come from different parts of Serbia, and I am sure it would be necessary to push for more redistribution of state money and ways for people living in their midst to decide on that money. It is not logical that local self-governments are cut all the time in the adoption of these laws, that transfers are reduced, and given the projection of the 2019 budget and taking into account GDP growth, the proportion that would be needed in this regard to local self-government is, instead of 33 billion, 47 billion in all budgets. So 14 billion less than what projections are in other sections. That is why I have a very simple proposal here, and I do this the easiest way to do it, which is to include 74% of the income tax, which is paid to the employee's residence, concerns only local public utility systems, local public enterprises and, of course, all basic business entities, and that that tax and part of the tax from the public system, which operates at the level of the entire state, public systems owned by the Republic, which are both the MUP, and members of the military, and the EPS, and the "Telecom", and "Post" and all other workers working at the level of the state and, above all, have their obligations and pay taxes and full budget of the largest centres, urban centres, that this proposal implies the distribution of these funds to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and municipalities and cities. This would mean about 300m euros annually, and would mean 43 euros per capita, which would mean that one city of 10,000 people would have 430,000 euros in higher incomes. This could solve the problems he has in school infrastructure, in health infrastructure, and in many other environmental issues that concern supplying healthy drinking water, treatment... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49390	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – eight. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49391	This is the simplest bill of law, and I think it would be logical to support it, and I'm sure we all agree on it when we think about a healthy logic, and not just about who is at the head of the National Bank of Serbia's institution, because that is the principle that needs to be introduced for the current leadership of the National Bank, but also for all future leaderships, because this is important for our country. Therefore, the proposal for this law is to delete Article 86b, and Article 86b reads: "The National Bank of Serbia, Governor, Vice-Governors, director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees are not responsible for the damage incurred by the National Bank of Serbia, unless it is proved that they have not acted in good faith. For the damages of Article 1 of this Article, the employees of that position shall not be liable even after the termination of the employment relationship at the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. the termination of office. The National Bank of Serbia will bear the costs of representing the person referred to in Article 1 in court and administrative proceedings in connection with the transactions under that position. The National Bank of Serbia will bear the costs of the 3rd member's position and those whose working relationship has ceased." So, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we, the MPs here, the majority who voted in favour of such a law, and we warned that this was an unacceptable solution, has virtually accepted that any possibility of controlling the responsibilities of people entrusted with great responsibility and great authority is denied. So, anyone with major powers must have even greater responsibilities to the National Assembly, of course, towards all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I think that this solution is inadmissible for the reasons of, above all, great responsibilities for the management of fiscal, monetary policies, for price stability, for the standard of citizens in Serbia, and if you take moves that threaten all these important goals, you do not bear absolutely any responsibility, and we expect that responsibility from those people who run their companies with one employee or family company with five employees, let alone some major systems that affect life in this way throughout the Republic of Serbia. So we've seen and now we've heard here that the Law is proposed and on public debt, that there's an opportunity for external agencies to manage public debt... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49392	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Finalising vote: for – seven. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for the discharge of the Verica Radeta from the post of vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49393	Dear colleagues and colleagues, 60 MPs and MPs from several parliamentary groups supported this proposal and I will read it to you because we have coordinated it in such a way. So, you heard – Proposal for a discharge of the Verse Radeta from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. The explanation is this: “Inadmissible hate speech, which violates Article 49. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prohibits the challenge of racial, national and religious hatred by brutally insulting the victims of Srebrenica, Verica Radeta has compromised the reputation and violated the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The relativisation of crime, the revision of history and the atmosphere of hate cannot be tolerated, and even less encouraged by the country's highest political officials. This is especially true for the institution of the National Assembly, which is democratic and which represents all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because of the inadmissible speech of hate, monstrous insults and pain that Verica Radeta has done to families of innocent victims, we are looking for an urgent and clear reaction from the MPs and the resolution of Verica Radeta from the post of vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. “ So this is our proposal addressed to all the parliamentary groups in this assembly of parliament and one good part of the parliamentary groups, so 60 MPs and MPs have also supported it. Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic reacted to this act and condemned him. The president of Serbia also did so and made it uncertain whether the SNS parliamentary group and the majority in the republic's assembly would support the proposal. I invite you to plead and express a clear attitude toward this request, and you will also show your willingness to fight hate speech in this congregation. We are witnesses, and this is less important to us MPs, we are used to the opposition's MPs suffering great pressures, great attacks and violence, as we have seen towards our colleague Aleksandra Jerkov, according to Tomislav Zigmanov, to many other MPs, but the most dangerous thing about such behaviour and our unwillingness to condemn such a way and verbal aggression and hate speech, is that it is poured out on the streets of Serbia and that we have the kind of attacks that we had last... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49394	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 14. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a huge public interest in Serbia to find out how Dragan Gilas got rich. Dragan Djilas is the head of the previous speaker and this whole sad group across from us, although he does not like Bosko Obradovic, who is the co-ordinator of parliamentary groups supporting the Alliance for Serbia. Why do I ask this, I think the polling board would be an ideal opportunity to discover how Dragan Gilas was enriched and made himself rich to the limit. So, given that when he became mayor of Belgrade's property was his car, 70,000 euros and some woman's house, and when he left power, he left Belgrade mayor's office, his property was 24 million, more than 24m euros in real estate only, people. Only in real estate more than 24 million euros, how? In what way? How is someone capable of making 24m euros in real estate only in a short time? His companies were receiving 300m euros. In the entire period when he exercised power, therefore, not only of the mayoral office, the revenue was over 500m euros. But at this point, we're only interested in this period of function. Why? Because at the time, this period of Belgrade is marked only by an affair whose vinence was just Dragan Gilas. So we're having a light-headed affair. We have an affair to reconstruct King Alexander's boulevards, where the city is damaged by six million euros. So there were arrests, and his closest associate was arrested on that occasion in the affair. We have an affair about underground containers, a famous affair, the Belgraders know, over six million euros has been damaged by the budget. We have an affair called "Pazov-grad", we have an affair in tram procurement, a big 53m-euro affair cost citizens of Belgrade. These are serious amounts. We're having an affair called Bus Plus. After all, we're having this huge affair called "The Bridge on Ada". The entire Adi Bridge was actually a big affair that really cost Belgrade and the citizens of Belgrade enormously. He left Belgrade more than a billion euros in debt, 1.2 billion euros in debt to Belgrade. Although he denies it, with some different mathematics, he reached a 400m-euro or 500m-euro figure, which is also a huge amount, but forgot to include public utility debts and institutions whose city is the founder and city municipalities, all leading to a 1.2 billion-euro figure. So, we have a situation, while the city is in debt, while the citizens are poor, Dragan Gilas is suddenly rich and so I think the Assembly would have to form a polling committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49396	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for seven MPs, against one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Capital. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49397	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, we suggest that in a year that is not elected in Belgrade, the Capital City Act is amended and that citizens of the capital be able to know who they are voting for in the next Belgrade elections, who is the candidate for mayor of Belgrade. So, the last time in 2004, Belgrade citizens were able to vote for their candidate, and then Nenad Bogdanovic beat Aleksandar Vukic in direct elections for Belgrade mayor. So it's very important that we know who we choose, that we know who we trust and who we trust. Citizens still vote for Alexander Vukic, then they get Vesic in Belgrade, and that's not fair either, and it's not fair either. I believe that many SNS voters, for example in Belgrade, did not vote for Belgrade's mayor to be Goran Vesic. For this reason, it is important that this debate is launched throughout Serbia, and when it comes to cities and municipalities across the country, it is very important that we have people who are responsible for citizens in the most important positions, not only in the state but also in local self-government. These people need to know who they're responding to, who they're carrying their bills to, and not how to manage the entire state system where you have only one candidate for all of the country's functions, and that this job is done by those who were not voted on by citizens, whether they're SNS, DS or any other party in Serbia. It is very important that we have those who correspond to the citizens, not those who match Alexander Vukic or some other party leaders. For this reason, this bill is very brave and if you support it, then you will be able to check in the next Belgrade elections your strength, or the strength of your candidates to run for mayors of Belgrade. Whether it will be, and I suppose it will, Goran Vesic, then let's measure how much SNS in Belgrade, for example, or their mayor Goran Vesic, has the support of citizens of Belgrade. I think it's fair and fair somewhere and you won't be afraid so they won't put this bill on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49398	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49399	Thank you. I'm very sorry that you rejected the previous proposal to put it on the agenda. This is now a proposal concerning the lives of soldiers and the lives of people working to defend our country. They are in a catastrophic material position, and on the other hand they spend huge funds to acquire heavy weapons, and there is no even a cabinet that would manage certain weapons that we have paid hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros. So, on the one hand, we haven't made reforms or continued reforms in the defence sector that the DS started, we came back with Minister Vulin in the 1990s, by ratting out weapons, saying the military is run by the president, that it's up to him whether we're going to go to war tomorrow, and it's confusing not only the citizens of Serbia, it's confusing the whole world, it's confusing the region. There are great tensions, the policy that you are implementing, the gun-squeezing policy is a policy that has reversed this country, has reversed Serbia. It eventually produced billions and billions of damages from the war that we were conducting in 1999. It produced that we lost both Kosovo and Metohija as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. She produced that as citizens with such political elite and such politics we were embarrassed in the wars of the 1990s and in Croatia, Bosnia and Slovenia. What's very important is that this should not happen again, but this rhetoric obviously suits you as the ruling majority because today the full printing of various threats, various announcements of wars in the region, the announcement of conflict, the announcement of violence, while an enormous robbery of state property and state resources is being carried out, and whereas individuals, only individuals, one small circle of people is getting richer and more. And the army, that is, the common soldier and the people, are living worse and worse. For this reason, this bill is because we believe that he is in the interest of the army of the Republic of Serbia, not the minister of the Republic of Serbia, who on the one hand is rich, and on the other hand gives irresponsible statements and rattles weapons in the 21st century in the Balkans and threatens not only the surrounding peoples, but also the violation of the Constitution and the laws of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49400	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - 12 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on additions to the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49401	Thank you. I again regret that you have not adopted the previous proposal. What the next proposal is to amend the Criminal Code to the extent that it speaks of the abusers in the family, who have legally acquired weapons, therefore, having weapons under the law, taking away their weapons when they register as domestic offenders. Why? Because over 50 women since we proposed this law to this day have lost their lives, in the way their husbands had legally acquired weapons, committed domestic violence, the police came, brought them in, they gave a statement, they were recorded as domestic abusers. However, their weapons were not taken away, they returned to the house and killed their wives. So in these cases it takes to take away legally acquired weapons for those who commit domestic violence, if they have those weapons, to take away their weapons, and nothing more. That's the bill. Who knows which way we put it on the agenda and who knows which way I tell you what's going to happen. Once again, 50 women in the future, if this continues, will lose their lives because you don't want to press the bells, and vote for this bill, which I told you I wouldn't explain, you adopt it as if it were yours, just to save someone's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49402	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49403	Thank you. I'm sorry you didn't accept the proposal and save someone's life in the future. The proposal now concerns Serbia and the UAE's co-operation. When we proposed this bill and we proposed that you put it on the agenda, our intentions were as today, to stop this suspicious capital and stop this flow of suspicious capital between the UAE and Serbia. So, today we're just realizing that this is the money that UAE phantom firms invest in Serbia, that it's money that's being pumped out of the state sector of the Republic of Serbia, so it's being robbed. He's being exported to the UAE. That's where the companies are founded. You in the Assembly vote in favour of the agreement, the agreement provides for relief in investing UAE companies in Serbia and thus laundering the money stolen in Serbia. These companies do not exist, these companies under favourable conditions receive even subsidies from the budget, to make the matter even more ridiculous, and on the other hand they are given the country at the cheapest price that peasants in Serbia can no longer get, no, it is shared by some phantom companies run by people from Serbia who have become rich during your government, who robbed the country during your government. So what Slobodan Milosevic used to do through Cyprus, you today, instead of Cyprus, have UAE and it is today your new Cyprus. So, making money, and then investing under favourable conditions and special conditions in Serbia. So it's a criminal organized group that this way robs this country and launders money through phantom companies from the UAE. We want this interstate agreement to be terminated, so it can't be done anymore. Of course, all those who have stolen that money all these years and who have exported it to the UAE will answer and we will determine the exact flow of money and the flow of money and that these people will fit, even if they are the highest officials in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49404	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on additions to the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49405	Thank you. In the meeting of the Republic of Serbia's budget for the next 2019, we proposed a law on the employment of young people. I know it's out of line with SNS politics and vision. So 597,000 people have left Serbia since you came to power, so nearly 600,000 people have permanently left Serbia. That's what the OECD says. These are official OECD data for Serbia over the past six years, so an average of 100,000 people per year. What's more than terrible, not only have we lost six major cities, it's terrible that you haven't done anything to keep people out of the profession, who have knowledge and energy, to keep them in this country. Over 27 nurses left Novi Sad only last week, 27 nurses left for Germany last week, not in the last year, but only in a week. So what's scandalous is that it suits you. Then your ministers come here and say that employment has increased, that is, unemployment has decreased. Well, that's it, those 600,000 people you've done with your politics, you don't care about driving them out of Serbia and then you're showing them as some statistical data that you're doing in your favor. It is 600,000 citizens of Serbia who knew something, who were brave, who thought they could manage in the most developed parts of the world. These are the leaders of this country. They're bothering you. It's someone's grandkids and grandchildren. It's someone's sons and daughters. It is a very worrying relationship between this ruling majority and the country's future. If this continues, you will, of course, do nothing, but if this continues, we will disappear in the next 20 years, disappear, with all the conflicts Serbia today has in the region and unresolved issues and relations, we will absolutely be no longer in certain parts of this country. It's not just the people from Belgrade. On the contrary, they go from all parts of this country, all those who know how to do something, who have some craft in their hand, who have some energy, who have some vision of life and the future, they want to go where there's a rule of law and not a crime, where there's honesty, not a thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49406	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by the items — Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49407	Thank you. This is also the youth employment law. We felt that every young man who finished his first high school, and then the university had a certain subsidy to employment, a single relief in the private and state sectors. Therefore, to reduce the contributions paid by the employer for compulsory social security. We checked this measure. This measure works and works, not only in the Netherlands where it is applied and where it successfully produces new young people, but also in Serbia. When it comes to the private sector, we had one big project funded by the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung Foundation, which showed that the private sector is interested in this measure, because someone younger, it's on the labour market cheaper by the age of 30. After 30 years, everyone has the same contribution rate for compulsory social security. From 15 years of age, when it can start working, by 30 years it ends in time for its school, ends in time for its education, ends up with a fair degree, which is very important to encourage young people in such a way, they are cheaper and more tempting, more profitable for employers, of course, and the state sector. This also applies to state-owned enterprises, state-owned factories where the worker will be paid cheaper and, therefore, to one employer must be more attractive because it will not cost that much in terms of contributions to compulsory social security. This measure, I repeat, works in one of the EU countries. Thus, the Netherlands, which has implemented this measure, also provides a kind of warm meal, transportation, allowance for those who go to practice in state and private enterprises. In this way they gave young people the opportunity and the equal chance of hiring and completing their education. That not only the children of officials in power, the children of directors, the children of presidents of various, etc., no, here is the point of equal opportunity for all young people in Serbia. Since they are in the highest number and leaving this country, we think that this measure is more than welcome to stop such a trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49408	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - nine, against—there is no one with abstentions. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and the special procedures for the expropriation of the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49409	Thank you. I regret to say that you have not adopted a proposal to hire young people. This is now a new proposal concerning Belgrade on the water. This is a pre-election promise from 2012 by Alexander Vukic, who came to power by promising a major development project in Belgrade called "Belgrade on Water". From the very beginning, to the end, we were the only ones who were against it, in all variations. So, not only were we against that dirty capital, but we were also against the violation of Serbia's culture and cultural heritage and the city of Belgrade, because this project changes the identity of the capital. He annuls the winner in Belgrade, he annuls Belgrade's history. Until then, everything Belgrade has acquired in its history, Vucic's "Belgrade on Water" project is annulled. From the beginning, I am proud to say it, to the end we were the only ones who were against it, and I say it with pride because it wasn't easy to stand up at certain times, in the last six years, to your regime which in every way corrupted many, and in this House and outside this House, which did not have the courage, honour of exceptions, to talk about such a devastating project for the future of Belgrade and Serbia. This is a project that changes, I repeat, the identity of Belgrade, the identity of Serbia and is therefore being executed by our citizens and our country. We're against him because he's being robbed, threatened, blackmailed and forced as a lex specialis in this assembly. That's when we told you -- you put every newborn in Serbia in charge of 3,500 euros through this project. This will all be paid by the citizens of Serbia. This mockery, that mockery of a project that exists exclusively in some Abu Dhabi and Dubai, since it is your ideal for the development of the state: with masts, with salters that have no absolute spirit, nor are they anywhere near the cultural identity of the capital. So, what is for you "Belgrade on Water", it is a threat to us to the identity of Belgrade and citizens living in it. We were, and we'll stay against him forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49410	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Serbia's Army. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on dual education. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49411	I'll be brief. So, in a period when Serbia leaves the largest number of people and the largest number of working people, instead of competing for knowledge with the region and Europe, we introduce ourselves, i.e. You've introduced dual education, against which we've been, to make too many, the poorest layer in this country that will be on the lowest possible jobs, on the strips, in diapers, which will work 50 hours a day, they can't go to the toilet, etc. So, you kind of deprive them of the right to education and the right to know, because from the lowest classes somewhere and in some ways you single them out and make them become slave labor. This is not how modern societies in Europe develop. What is dual education for a German or another country in Europe cannot be implemented in Serbia and should not be implemented in Serbia. So, there are a huge number of those who don't know German, and somewhere they have to work, so that dual system is invented for them, and you want to implement it on Serbian citizens, children who don't have the same chances of schooling. You previously impoverish their parents so they can't buy them textbooks, cut free textbooks, they're bad in elementary school, and then you take them, you single them out as kids who can't keep on following education and then you make them cheap slave labor. For who? For your UAE investments, for the money you stole, that you took to UAE, then you send them back to Serbia through phantom companies, and then you need that cheap labor force to sit down and sit on a tape for 10 hours in diapers, and then you boast about the investments. So that's that closed circle of your vision of Serbia's development, which we, with both hands, are raised against. We do not want, of course, not only to participate in this, but we will first change and change and restore education in Serbia, a worthy young man who wants to build his future in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49412	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - nine, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Balša Bozovic and related persons in the real estate affair in "Belgrade on Water". Here you go, colleague Rističevci.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard Baron Balša Minhauzen, so it is sad that the DS after Davidovic, Grol, Micunovic, Djindjic, Nikola Milosevic, Vojislav Kostunica, slept at Balš Bozovic. Balsa Bozovic here was talking about gun-stuttering. In their day, we had nothing to rattle about. And if we wanted to do it in 2012, we didn't have anything to rattle, we didn't have either air or military, 700 tanks melted and armored vehicles, which we overthrew, which they sold. There was no equipment or weapons. We had not military neutral Serbia, but military neutralised Serbia. When he talks about hammering guns, they didn't even frown in 2008 when Albanians declared independence on our territory. Even more so, by their resolutions, by their decisions, they took part in the construction of KIM, the wild states of KIM, the false states. That's why I suggest that Balsa Bozovic and his team, Djilas, Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic, are raised somewhere in Jarinj, a monument of shame, and I believe that Albanians, besides that Clinton himself, who have already been erected by monuments, will raise and mention the monuments, a monument of gratitude, because they participated in the construction of a wild state. Balsa Bozovic is the worst story about Belgrade on the water, and with connected persons she trades apartments in Belgrade on water. It's a hypocrite who wants to run the state, and his party, DS, is over a thousand days in a blockade. For four years, their party has been in a blockade, and they would have run the state they pushed into a blockade by 2012, pushed into financial impotence and made it an impossible state, an unsustainable state. So there was no change in Serbia anymore, there would be no employees. Balsa Bozovic talks about Belgrade on the water, and with connected persons, co-owner of the famous pasture building in Vracar, with Mr Sutanovac, who together disarmed the army, destroyed Serbia. He's talking about some Emirates, etc. He, whose party reportedly brought out 54 billion dollars from the country by 2011. They did not fight the poor, which they allegedly advocated, but fought the poor, not for the poor. So Balsa Bozovic should answer and the survey board should establish all facts related to this hypocrite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49414	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49415	Thank you. With great regret, I find that you have not adopted the ruling majority's proposal to form a committee of inquiry against me. I voted in favour of your proposal, but you didn't vote for yours, because you're telling the truth, of course, because you're afraid of that poll committee that you're proposing. So, when it comes to this bill, it is, among other things, there to enable those people who live out of taxi driving a much easier way to get to the car, a much easier way to make the job profitable. The taxiists in Serbia's cities are people who are usually from these places, from these cities. They know good cities, municipalities, streets. Some people do it their whole lives. Some people do it by force of opportunity. Some for various reasons. Some because they love, some because they don't like, and they have to. Anyway, treating them in one unfair way isn't right. I think they need to be recognised by a car that drives as a basic means of work, and that they have in some way made it easier to buy and replace new cars. I can see that that doesn't touch you very much, but I have opportunities, some of them I know, and speaking to some taxi drivers from Belgrade, I've come up with the idea of proposing this bill. It concerns, among other things, the way road traffic is managed in the capital and other cities across the country and municipalities across the country. And when it comes to Belgrade on water that can't be owned by anyone, not a private plot, which prohibits taxi drivers from coming and driving citizens from one part of Belgrade's centre because they will be able to table only the vehicles of the "Belgrade on Water" company run by the SNS. Not only are you telling the truth, I've told you a thousand times that lies and slanders absolutely don't touch me and you won't, of course, touch me with this nonsense, but what's important is that I'm calling you by who knows which way to now – stop this project, go and get rid of it, go and tear it down, I'll support you first in it. There's no need to invent and hide behind false insults and slanders. You don't believe in this project yourself, or what's happening in Belgrade on water, in the end, many of the things you're voting for here, at bells all over the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49416	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts and responsibilities of the person who destroyed those facilities. Here's a colleague of Bozovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49417	So, votes were numbered in the year 2016 of the parliamentary elections. That evening, the ruling party and its leaders staged a demolition in Savamala because there were certain facilities that bothered Belgrade's water project. She allowed the police to do so, the police that he privatised in the meantime, Mr Stefanovic, who became the paramilitary parties and regimes of Aleksandr Vukic. Honoring the exceptions, the honorable and the responsible men of the police who do their job fairly and honorably. This is where the shame came from for the police who didn't come out when the citizens who were tied up by bandits and phantoms, who were beaten and beaten, didn't come out to protect them. So, you have shamed the Serbian police officer and the Serb uniform and what's important is that it is organized, that here I am proposing a polling committee, so if you have the courage to vote for him, the Savamal polling committee to see how and how the highest SNS officials influenced the fact that the police did not come to the scene, that the municipal police also did not respond to the call, who ordered the demolition, what role of certain criminal structures in Serbia was in that destruction, which the construction firms had to give the necessary equipment, baggers and other vehicles to bring it down, and on which basis Goran Vesic, as the then manager of the capital, organised the cleaning of that area, thus removing certain evidence that could lead to who participated or which construction firm gave certain vehicles for this destruction. What matters to you is that we will never give up on this. This is a court case waiting for you on the first day you fall from power and, of course, those who played a major role at the time, not only in the City of Belgrade, but also in the Republic of Serbia, of course, will be responsible for the suspension of the state, the law and the Constitution in the Savam Male area, on the night of the elections, when votes of parliamentary elections were counted. So, what you've done, what you've tied up, arrested, harassed and kidnapped citizens, what you've illegally destroyed, believe me, to the long-standing sentences of prison to go to some you know very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49418	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances of suspected SNS transactions, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the 2014 parliamentary elections, and the 2017 presidential elections. Here you go, Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49419	So the money that you're paying into party election accounts, it's not clean money, it's dirty money, you're sharing it with people who aren't either employed, or are social aid recipients, so they couldn't have at those times, for example. 50,000 dinars on you. You did it with over a thousand or several thousand addresses. So, citizens who are recipients of social aid, you give them in cash 50,000 dinars, they deposit it in your account, you have then the largest number of billboards, videos, etc. and like winning the election. Unfortunately, this is not the case under the law, and that is why I propose this committee of inquiry to determine the responsibility of the people involved, of course, with the financing of the SNS. The SNS can't behave beyond the law, as long as you think you can right now and you can. So you can do whatever you want, that's true, but not as long as you want. I'm telling you again, the poll committees are a threat, maybe not to you sitting here, I guess you didn't have much to do with it, but the people who run your party, the people who are the heads of your election headquarters, how can I tell you, no one forced them to break the law. I'm just telling you what's gonna happen. I don't see any of you need to be nervous if you're not guilty. So, I'm telling you what's gonna happen and I'm saying it doesn't have anything to do with me again, and you don't need to think that someone hates you or doesn't love you, etc. etc. It's not about that at all. It is said that you have broken the law and that the prosecution will work once in Serbia and that the prosecution will record how and how you finance yourself. When that happens, how can I say, I wouldn't exactly be in your skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49420	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts on the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles of the stamp “Škoda” MUP. Here you go, Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49421	Thank you. I'd only ask you to determine the quorum of the chairman, since I'm not sure it's okay to vote on my proposals, but I don't know...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49422	Just keep up with your colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49423	... would even some SNS MP give me a vote. So if we can determine the quorum because it's wrong to have a hundred MPs in the O.R., and we're working on one, I'd say, an irregular way that doesn't conform to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49424	Comrade Bozovic, will you continue to explain your proposals regarding the addition of the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49425	I'd really like to vote first and get on with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49426	Do you want to go on or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49427	You want to vote without a quorum or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49428	I'm warning you, you have no right to ask for the quorum. I'm warning you now, you have no right. I'm warning you now that your arbitrary judgments are not here. We're done with the stand MPs when they were in Bodrum and Thessaloniki, and now, please, will you explain your proposal to supplement the agenda or will you... Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49429	So don't get me wrong, I'm just worried about the dignity of the National Assembly. You're warning me, too strong words.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49430	My colleague Bozovic, I am in charge of this now, and you continue with the proposal to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49431	So I don't know if I'll get enough votes if there's no MPs in the O.R. That's all I need.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49432	I give you a warning, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49433	A warning because I'm looking for a quorum. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49434	You have no right. You've been warned of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49435	I have no right. Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49436	It says in the Rules of Procedure, don't throw it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49437	You know what, I haven't received my full salary since when. Just keep that tradition going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49438	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role, the responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the reshuffle of Slavi Square and the construction of the music fountain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49439	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. So, I don't want my proposals for the board of inquiry to produce your anxiety. You're mad at me because I'm an MP who holds on to dignity, first to his personal and then to this home. This is a central political institution, and I would ask you to allow me to work as a National MP. If you don't allow me to work, then tell me – you can't come here, that I'm not welcome here, that you're making warnings for me, you can also take me away from the session, it won't be the first time, but we have a problem, if there aren't enough MPs in the O.R., it's a disgrace for all of us and for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49440	That's what your colleague Bozovic's up to. It's like the last time you asked for a quorum, so you tried to get out of the O.R. So, please, you have two minutes left to explain the proposal to supplement the agenda under this proposal, and please continue to explain the proposal for supplementing the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49441	Thank you. This is a proposal for all MPs, and for those who are not in the O.R., whose cards are in the systems. So, every robbery you've organized in the last six years, we've been systematically investigating every affair you've ever had, we're making a survey board. So on the Alibabe site, a fountain at the feast costs 600,000 euros, and you paid it 2m euros. I'm telling you again, I wouldn't be in the skin of the one who made it possible for citizens to spend that kind of money in this budget case on something that didn't cost that much. I'm telling you, at some point, whether you vote now or not, these stand MPs or not, who are not in the O.R., who are supposed to be in the O.R., so one day the D.A.'s gonna start doing his job. When the prosecution begins to do its job, when the first prosecutor is encouraged, he will not only get the support of the citizens, not only cause citizens' enthusiasm, because someone has the courage to do his job with honor, but also gain protection from those citizens, as was the case in Romania, for example. Then such a prosecution, a brave prosecutor's office in Serbia, will ask some of you to seek prison sentences for a few years, perhaps a dozen. So it's been stealing so much over the last six years, that if it corresponds to the number of years in prison, it'll be, how can I tell you, a thousand years or 15 thousand years in prison for all those who've been stealing in the last six years. That's right, the question is if there's going to be a place in prison for everyone, which is why we need to build new prisons.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49442	I thank my colleague Bozovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, on the basis of Article 92, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the fact that the defence minister in the Serbian government, Mr Aleksandar Vulin, acquired an apartment in Belgrade of 107m square euros worth 244.620 euros. Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49443	Thank you. This is this great nationalist and great defence minister, who bought an apartment for cash and didn't tell him where he got the money, and then some lawyer advised him to tell him that he had an aunt in Canada or someone else, his wife or whoever, so his aunt was flying his money to Belgrade about 30 times. Indeed, a woman obviously has a lot of money, since she spent over 100,000 euros on tickets alone. What's funny is that he thought it would go so unnoticed. He is also one of those who will be responsible for money that has no origin, which is dirty money, black money. That money bought himself an apartment, and not only did he, to be clear, so many in the last six years have thus acquired their property, so he'll be able to tell you, check out the prosecution in all order, who bought how many apartments in "Belgrade on Water", who bought how much in Belville, who bought as much in Block A, who bought it, who made the hotels, who made the villa, the houses, the ones that are being built today, and even some of the directors of public enterprises who built tens of thousands of squares. I'm telling you again, that's all things, tell them you, actually tell them not to spend all the money, let them save for good lawyers, they'll need to believe me. It is a ruthless system in which the rule of law rules. No mercy on corruption, robbery, thieving. It's a system that exists to create a fair society, a society where citizens feel safe, in which those who steal end up in prison. In that sense, the tax administration is, of course, there, which will determine how, with 800 euros or 900 euros, some minister can afford such an apartment or president, or I don't know who, the official, director of a public enterprise, etc. Every penny, whether by working fairly like other Serbian citizens or by contrasting with Serbian citizens who work fairly and cannot put an end to the end of the 1st to 30th of the month, those with the same incomes have tens of thousands of squares of property, cars, Mercedes, planes, trucks, etc. It's a job of course for the D.A.'s office, a brave prosecutor's office, which, I repeat, will receive the support of the citizens when they are encouraged to initiate proceedings in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49444	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in relation to the investment investment investment project in agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49445	Thank you. So, the largest country is the company of phantoms, your companies, which the phantoms, from the United Arab Emirates, have won the country. They won the largest land in Vojvodina. The most quality country Serbia has ever given to them. On that land, which is not treated the way it should, absolutely nothing happens, half of that country is not processed. So it was just a long-term lease so someone could buy it tomorrow when you allow it. I want to tell you that the situation is next. Families, for example, in Vojvodina for tens of years in agricultural production, can no longer compete for the best and most qualitative country they have ever worked. It's obvious that only you and your phantom companies and your phantom partners can do this. So these are these false investments that you're somehow citing and that you're bringing into Serbia, and you're actually the owners of all of that, you're behind it all. That's another one of the things we said we'd explore. We're looking for a survey board, and if you're not hiding anything, vote for it. I assume you're hiding or not allowed to vote, but it's a matter of your personal dignity. What is important and important is that you have made it impossible for many in Vojvodina to continue to process this country as it has been domestically handled in the last 10, 20, 50, 100 years. You thus prevent the development of agricultural production. Paras in Vojvodina can't do that anymore because you're importing some of your phantom pairs. How can I tell you, it's all a problem, in general, that you have a relationship with a working country in Serbia, and it's not what you can be proud of. The relationship towards Vojvodina, in the end, is not what the AP is like. All this stuff you've been doing in the last few weeks, when it comes to celebrating and falsifying history, it naturally goes in favor of my claim. We propose a survey committee to determine everything that has caused you to impoverish the peasants in Serbia, to impoverish the pair, to impoverish those who have been dealing with family agricultural production for decades, and today you are bringing this into question and putting some of your friends, partners and officials of the SNS to, in hiding behind phantom companies, actually get hold of the most fertile countries in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49446	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of Belgrade's top authorities regarding the signing of an agreement on the construction of a burning plant in Vinca. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49447	Thank you. When it comes to Vinci, it is also about waste management in the capital, which is very irresponsible. So, the dump in Vinci literally as a single hill separated from the rest, heading towards the river and threatening to create an ecological disaster. It even stopped that devastating project of yours when it came to the burner and the waste management. He stopped because a new city government came. We were against this project, but you can't carry out a bad project like that. A new city government came instead of your old city government. This new one is even more incompetent than the last one. It's obvious that some things can't be settled, that system doesn't work, the secretaries don't work, and now we're in a situation where we have an ecological disaster at a dump that threatens to break down. There are records of this, even of these business partners of yours, who spoke with great concern about waste management in Belgrade, which is not done in a manner prescribed primarily by regulations and then by city and law decisions. The big question is how will we contribute to protecting the environment, if this ecological disaster occurs, and of course someone has to answer, and for that, it is someone who signed those contracts, as the highest authorities of the SNS city government. So we're about to investigate this. Better not be late now. We're looking for a survey board because, I repeat, there's a possible ecological disaster at the Vinca dump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49448	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract for the "Belgrade on Water" project. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49449	Thank you. This is now the signing of the contract for the construction of "Beograda na Voda". Zorana Mihajlovic, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is always trying to present herself as part of the Serbian government that tends to some European integrations, etc., can't go through with us, and fraud and lies cannot pass, she signed, by name and last name, a contract on "Belgrade on Water". Here is Mr. Mrkonjic, who can confirm how justified the construction of this project "Belgrade on Water" is, how pointlessly much money is invested to prepare the terrain itself, since this area is not for construction. We published footage of 25 thousand euros a day being paid to pump out that water that constantly, groundwater, wets the foundations and is based on very slow droughts, etc., etc., that the company that determined whether the land was suitable for construction or not to insert spikes at 30 meters deep, and then fell down, it was the mud, Mr. Chairman, not the land on which it could be built...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49450	Don't do this to me. I don't understand myself, but I know it's paid by an investor, not by a city or by a state. But you don't know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49451	So, Zorana Mihajlovic, who signed the contract, personally filed a criminal complaint against her. A criminal report ended in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime of the Republic of Serbia, and I said it was a organised crime in Serbia, that it had come to the possibility of building a "Biograda on Water" by amending and supplementing the laws relating to system law on planning and construction, so that certain parcels, which is happening today, are certain public facilities, such as the Bristol Hotel, such as the Railway Station, such as the Bus Station, such as the "Lastina" station, would be handed over to the company "Belgrade on Water", where Alabbar, the partner of your President of the Republic, is then a business between them. So I told him that it's not normal for us to pay or give three or four billion euros, and that Albar opens a company with 100 dinars of founding capital, that he has 68% in the joint venture, and we have 32%. So it's not normal and that's why Zorana Mihajlovic, because she signed the contract, will answer to the country's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49452	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Balša Bozovic and related persons in the purchase of real estate in "Belgrade on Water". Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49453	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the public in Serbia is interested in lighting up all the circumstances and facts related to the previous speaker, Balša Bozovic, and related persons in the purchase of real estate in "Belgrade on Water". You see, the chairman, this hypocrisy. Balsa Bozovic, who is the loudest in criticism of "Beograda on Water", has been on water for many years, and then it turns out that the then girlfriend or fiancée, as already, is selling apartments in "Belgrade on Water". So, on the one hand, Bozovic "Belgrade on Water" calls fraud, crime, etc., and on the other hand, he does not mind that his girlfriend sells apartments under the Project "Belgrade on Water". He was here saying that there is nothing of it, that it will never be built "Belgrade on the Water", here, I would like to invite him out of the Assembly, to take a walk in the small town, and to see on his own the degree he had already built "Belgrade on the Water". I would also remind the public that we have not yet received an answer to the question of where money for the famous Maldives, how much it cost the famous wintering on the Maldives of the previous speaker, who paid for it, that with the parliamentary salary someone can afford wintering in the Maldives, which, by all estimates, costs about 15,000 euros. I was looking at the previous speaker's property card there, there's a pay card, he says -- there's no savings, there's no quarter of an apartment. So, how can someone afford a 15,000-euro winter with an MP's salary? So these are some questions we need to get answers to. But what does he do, did you notice, the chairman? He here proposes mainly proposals from the domains of local themes, what is in the domain of the local parliament, what is in the area of the city's assembly. Now, I know he's not a city councilman and I know his party hasn't crossed the censorship. He and his party failed to win 5% of the votes in the Belgrade elections, so he is no longer a city councilman, and now here the National Assembly is bothering with these topics that are purely local. I just want to say that when Balsa Bozovic resigns because of the disastrous result he made in the previous elections, then we will take it seriously, then we will take it seriously. When he resigns for all that Gilas did, because of all the robberies and thefts that Djilas did while he was in power, and part of that government was Bozovic, then we will take it seriously. And one more thing. When he resigns, because of all the lies he utters here, and there's no evidence and then it turns out it was a lie, then we'll take it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49454	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to establish facts relating to human organs' trade in Kosovo and Metohija, so-called "Yellow House", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Bozovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49455	I regret to say that you have not adopted Mr Markovic's and SNS's proposal to set up a survey committee when it comes to some vacations, that's bullshit again, I'm telling you. What is important is that you show to this survey board whether you are in favour of revealing who he is, and how he traded with the authorities of Serbs, Roma, the non-Albanian population in the war in Kosovo in 1999 and after the end of the war. Now, are you going to vote for a proposal directed against your coalition partner, Mr. Haradinaj, Mr. Markovic, I personally ask you this question? Will Mr. Haradinaj, who committed the monstrous crimes, which is evidence in the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, be handed over to the international tribunal? Why are you keeping them in the drawer? Why do you politically support him in Kosovo? Why are you, Orlic, now saying that you object to Haradinaj ending up in prison for what he did? Now, that's a question and it's a shame, that's your national and patriotic policy that you've been running for the last six years. Not for the last six years, to correct myself, from 1990 to today, through various parties, the SRS, the Chetnic movements, and today the SNS. So it's all the same, but you're also supporting Haradinaj most of the Kosovo government. Shame on you for that. Haradinaj, who was accused of war crimes. Evidence exists in Serbia's war crimes prosecutor's office, but you're protecting him. You will not hand over that evidence to the tribunal. Now, that's the essence of your policy. I don't need anyone to say anything about you ever again except this. All those affairs, everything's pointless besides this. The man accused, and Orlic laughing, for organ trafficking...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49456	Comrade Bozovic, don't lose your temper, I beg you. And I'm angry when I'm going to the Zreko brothers, and all the other criminals released from Serbian prisons while you were in power, so I'm not accusing any of you of that. Another 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49457	Thank you. I'm not losing my temper. I'm angry, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49458	And, I'm a colleague of Bozovic, which is 1,400 terrorists released from Serbian prisons during the government of Zoran Djindjic, so I'm not accusing you of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49459	So if you have the courage to vote for this. I've never been in favour of letting go of any terrorists, but the terrorist you support in the Kosovo government will not support the proposal to end up in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49460	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of the US Embassy and the Federal Republic of Germany, which was attacked on 21 February 2008, during the protest "Kosovo is Serbia", as well as the responsibilities of both the former and current holders of the highest state functions, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to the vote? I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts on the role of the highest authorities in relation to the construction of the Chinese company "Mei ta" in Baric. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49461	It found that workers are working on tape, bending some cables, having 18,000 dinars, because one of the owners of a Chinese factory is cheaper labour force in Serbia than in China, and that's the part where we talk about the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's part of your vision of the future of this country, of being all slaves and working for 18,000 dinars without health care, when it faints from work, that at a better price, taxis transport them to an emergency center or emergency room. So it's not Serbia that anyone wants to live in except you who are enormously rich and who robs this country, who live at the expense of taxpayers and citizens who live honestly from their work. Well, in the end and on the back and the poor girl who works in that Mei ta. When I said it was a disgrace to this investment for Serbia, you apologized to the Chinese ambassador. Here, and now I'm telling you it's a shame, so apologize to him again. It is a shame for Serbia, which presupposes it to be, even though we claim it to be a modern country, that you are returning it to the 17th century and making it a slave society. We've always been against such investments, and we will be. It's not about whether someone's losing their nerve, it's about me being just angry because these things are hitting me because I can't stand it, like some colleagues, that kind of attitude towards people because you citizens don't think of people, but slaves who have to vote for you, who have to work at your factories in private, fake phantom factories that are coming, and then you're enormously rich. Financial subsidies, hundreds of millions of euros are given to these companies. All that goes into the budget of some of your partners or yourself. So these are all things that hit very much those who deal with politics to speak on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. People in Serbia are angry. People in Serbia are angry. You're in a position to address the opposition, because you're referring to the citizens. We're not the ones who are the problem. The citizens are your problem. You tell them what you're telling us. They need you to laugh at the "yellow house" in Kosovo, to be ashamed of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49462	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the IMC Kruševa factory "14. October", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human casualties and material and immaterial flood damage in Serbia's territory in 2014. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify facts in the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the contract between the Republic of Serbia and Al Rawafed International Investment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities for the untrue demonstration of the state of the aflatoxin level in milk and corn, which caused great material and immaterial damage to the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the Treaty between the Serbian Government and Etihad Airways on the establishment of the air traffic company Air Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption within Jelizara Smederevo in 2015, with a loss of around 150m euros annually. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49463	Just for a little while. I want to promise that you will eventually be responsible for this corruption when it comes to Jellyzar and all the other committees of inquiry that have been read for the last few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49464	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances of the existence of private listening centres, which are in the service of the highest state offices in the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49465	Six months ago, when Oliver Ivanovic was killed, Oliver Ivanovic gave a statement to the Security and Information Agency. He also gave a statement to the Kosovo police. He said he had threats coming from certain power censors from northern Kosovo. He named people. The security-information agency didn't do anything about it. The last in a series of statements he made a few weeks before he was killed. So what exactly did the Security and Information Agency do in that case? What exactly did the Agency do in case of attempted murder on Borko Stefanovic? What did she do when it came to the death threats of Vuk Jeremic? What did she do when it comes to threats to other parts of the opposition of the NGO sector and the media, when it comes to the persecution of journalists who are freely and professionally reporting? Is the Security and Information Agency listening here to us, opposition MPs? Is he listening to opposition leaders members of certain opposition parties? Whether he is listening or not, and on the basis of which, Marko Parezanovic, who is the senior BIA leader, said that we are a threat to Serbia, that we are as an opposition, as representatives of citizens, are those who are a threat to national security, in the company of the prime minister who laughs at it, who is sneezing. She says -- oh, that's not funny, the president of Serbia said he would check it out so he never answered again. The police minister says he'll check with the so-called. Bata Gasic, so he never answered again. How many more assassination attempts will be made in Serbia and to what extent is the security-information agency privatised when it can listen and monitor the opposition, the media, the unions? How much more blood does it take to drop? How many more bloody shirts should there be? (Hope Kostic: And that no one answers. () Yes, an absolute prosecution, except for those who committed it, but not those who organized it. Will the prosecution launch an investigation into the political background of the assassination of Borko Stefanovic, the threat of the death of Vuk Jeremic, the murder of Oliver Ivanovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49466	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances of the way the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabaković, acquired a four-bedroom apartment in Novi Sad of 144 square meters for which the company Telecom Serbia took on the remaining debt to mention the 7700-euro apartment on 30 November 2012. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the National SOS Phone, which is intended for women victims of domestic violence. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the privatisation of the PKK. Does my colleague Bozovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the Indji Municipality, Goran Jesic and the unintended spending of funds. Does my colleague Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that Davidovic Grol, Zoran Djindjic, Nikola Milosevic, today can stand up and see Balša Bozovic, Baron Minhauzen representing the DS, I think he would voluntarily return to his grave. If they were lucky enough to come to life and be able to attend the tirad that Balša Bozovic has given us here, I believe that they would die voluntarily and even if they saw Dvori, that would be the end. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a sentence - our prosecutor. Our prosecutor needs to deal with India by replacing the agricultural land that his cousin Miodrag Kostic is, and he knows they're related... Marko Atlagic: Whose cousin? ) Balsa Bozovic knows that relatives are very close. So they replaced 1200 hectares of the worst country, which he bought in privatisation, for 1200 hectares of the best country and with several hectares covered the purchase of "Agrounia". He said, "Our prosecutor." The prosecutor, as far as I know, Zagorka Dolovac, is the same prosecutor they chose, and Zagorka Dolovac is known as Pitiæ's godmother. You're saying our prosecutor doesn't have the courage? Well, why did you choose Zagorka Dolovac, the godfather, if you knew there wasn't enough courage? I'm afraid she didn't have the courage to check everything you're doing for a long time, and Balsa Bozovic just ran away. If you had the courage, you could very easily check that someone with 1000 euros in salary can fly to Maldives in the middle of the winter for 30,000 euros to spend so much. Where did he get that money? She could easily check that "Al Dahru", mentioned by him, and Arabs, who bought Saric's combinations, sold by DS, and Balsa Bozovic is an integral part of it, could easily be determined that their investors were drug dealers. It would easily be determined that Miodrag Kostic with several more tycoons, with four of them, bought 100,000 hectares of 130,000 hectares of social land. It would be easy to investigate and see that 15 000 tonnes of sugar was bought by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic for 13m euros, above the price of sevenm euros. It is easy to be rich when you have a cousin, when you have Balša Bozovic over whom you make everything possible in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, after the push of Balša Bozovic, I can conclude the following – they have no shame, no shame. They're not afraid of God. People aren't ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49468	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for six, against those who are abstentioned, there are none of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49469	Thank you. Since 5 May last year, this proposal for a declaration has been discussed several times and unfortunately has not received support from MPs in the National Assembly, although 250 MPs, namely 240 living in central Serbia and Vojvodina, where activity related to the GMO Declaration was carried out from 2013 to 2016, in the field of 136 municipalities and cities that unanimously adopted the GMO Declaration alive, i.e. 223 MPs. In this regard, the question that we MPs present in the Assembly is raised, do we represent citizens in municipalities and cities whose territory we live or represent, or do we meet the requirements of only party leaders, regardless of whether it is the positional or opposition parliamentary groups and parties? This points to the need to think carefully about whether or not we need to change the electoral law. At the same time, I would suggest that if we were worthy descendants of ancestors from 100 years ago, and we did not carry out any activity in the Assembly for 100 years of victory in the First World War, we should pay our respects to 1,250,000 dead soldiers and citizens of the Kingdom of Serbia in the period from 1914 to 1918. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49470	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for three. There is no one from 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49471	Thank you. I repeat once again the proposal that if we are worthy descendants of our ancestors 100 years ago, one minute of silence, we pay our respects to 1,250,000 soldiers and citizens of the Kingdom of Serbia who have built their lives into the foundations of this country, which we fail to preserve. It is likely that most MPs have not been informed that the Strasbourg court has accepted to consider the first lawsuit sent by one pensioner association from Serbia after all institutional opportunities were exhausted in the Republic of Serbia. This is not to praise, above all, the Republic of Serbia, that within the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, there was no understanding for the grounds set out in the complaint, and there are clearly indications for the European court in Strasbourg. This issue is particularly important today, because in the framework of 62 points of united debate at this session, we also have a draft law on the budget of the Republic in 2019. The question arises – if the Strasbourg court accepts the proposal and brings a positive solution, how will this affect the budget of the Republic of Serbia in the coming year or in the coming years? At the same time, the particular problem is to collapse the entire pension system and leave it to the government that outside the system prescribed by law can make decisions on when and how much they will pay their pensions. This creates a complete uncertainty for a huge number of citizens, including those who are extremely poor. Thirdly, we have amended Article 155 by amending and supplementing the PIO Act so that the Fund's board of directors has fewer members and are mostly dominated by government representatives, and this suggests that the Fund's Management Board has 15 members appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but equally represented by individual stakeholders, five members from the rights of users, five members from... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49472	Thank you, Professor. I'm putting this motion to the vote. It concludes the vote: for eight, against the abstention, there is none of the 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the business of the company "Tenis" and the award of land to this company, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 September 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49473	Thank you. This proposal suggests establishing a poll committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to look into the facts and circumstances related to the arrival of Tenis in Serbia, which has been announced for several years and has not realised any of the envisaged agreements, while large land areas remain reserved for it. The question arises – what is the reason not for the company "Tenis" to come to Serbia? Is this our irresponsibility towards our own citizens and our own agriculture not to eliminate the problem of swine fever and why we cannot practically have the real traffic of pigs and unprocessed pigmeat products through the territories of the European countries that we are surrounded by, and where should we meet other interests and requirements that the company "Tenis" sets? At the same time, it is very important to see who is under what law and assessment approved by the company "Tenis" lease of 2,420 ha in the municipality of Zrenjanin, and what is everything planned to be done with other land intended for the company "Tenis", and it was necessary to make decisions by 1 November 2018, which passed? This issue opens and spreads the problem of land policy, given that we have made it possible to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act so-called. large investors to rent up to 30% of state land in certain local self-governments, so it would be good for the Assembly to once get a report on who these investors are, how much land they have received in certain municipalities and how much funds they have assumed to invest and how much they have invested so far, given that this is the second year of realisation of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49474	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 155. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Miladin Ševarlic, the "Star" project and the unintended spending of funds from the Ministry of Agriculture's budget, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49475	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, professor, pensioner, a little shorter to remember. My memory is a little longer, so I'm going to evacuate memories. None of the topics he's brought up so far concerned him at a time when DSS and DSS ruled this country. When he received 61,000 euros from the "Star" project, which was designed to revive livestock farming on the Old Mountain, it did not matter to him that Ivana Dulic Markovic was importing a shotgun of genetically modified soybeans. That was fine then. He didn't show any activity in that sense. When you put enough money on his Association of Agricultural Economists, he forgets to ask a question. He didn't even ask how Miodrag Kostic, as Matijević, as Nicovic, as they bought over 100,000 hectares of land and combined cattle, fired the cattle, caused poverty. He didn't mind when pensioners were getting pensions from loans, or when substantial amounts were allocated from the budget. He didn't mind a 10,000-dollar peasant pension. It was all right when DSS and DSS ruled his Association of Agricultural Economists tossing a certain amount of money into their pockets, including Chevarlic himself. Ladies and gentlemen, he didn't mind when that sale of capital ended, then it went to the so-called. investment, not programmes, but investment consent. He didn't mind that huge areas of certain DS and DSS friends were leased for 30 years. Watch out for 30 years without any investment. So if you plant, orchard, vineyard, etc., from DS you get to 30 or 40 years of land and you don't have to invest anything, you don't have to hire anyone and you don't have to have any processing. Now it bothers him if someone wants to advance livestock and revive the processing of agricultural products, because it's investment programs, so it's that "Tenis" he was talking about here. So he was not bothered by Miskovic or Matijević or Ivana Dulic Markovic or genetically modified soybean or Miodrag Kostic, no one bothered him at the time he was getting that money. He now has a problem with investors who need to pick up the processing and hire some of those who own the combinations in the wild predatory privatisation fired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49476	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2016. Here you go, Dr. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49477	Thank you, Vice President. I really call on my colleagues to vote to supplement the agenda with this bill that I have not prepared myself. It was prepared by the Regional Government, prepared by those people who deal with all those powers that the AP Vojvodina needs to finance and who know what the Republic of Serbia needs to transfer, the competencies that Vojvodina from its original incomes could finance. Some of you were at the alleged celebration of the accession of the Duke of the Kingdom to Serbia and attended this nationalistic hysteria that we had the opportunity to see two days ago in Novi Sad, which had only one goal – to show that there are territories that Serbia won in the war, which it kept in its composition. The fact was that it was organized, that the main actors of the show were exactly the one whose devastating policy in the past decades led to Serbia losing all the territories it had previously conquered in wars where, of course, other children were killed, in the policy that you supported, which today, which led to thousands of people losing their lives, that tens of thousands of people had lost their roof over their heads and that years and decades had been lost in all the countries of the region, as well as in that Serbia and that Vojvodina, which you reportedly lost these two days in Novi Sad. Of course, it is clear to me that both radicals and nationalists have always been against the Vojvodina. In those centuries where Vojvodina exists, it was the first thing that bothered Hungarian nationalists, then Serbian nationalists, today it bothers those nationalists who currently lead both Serbia and Vojvodina, and just as it bothered the radicals who in 1918 felt that it should cease to exist the moment it entered into the membership of the Kingdom of Serbia, today it bothers those radicals who are currently taking Vojvodina, who may be a little different, but that radical-nationalist vest, even when it comes to Vojvodina, and even when it comes to other things obviously they cannot, neither are able, nor want to take off.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49478	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no, of 151. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Here you go, Dr. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49479	Thank you, Vice President. As is known, I have been proposing for several years that only one change be introduced into the Criminal Code, which is that among the crimes that do not go into obsolescence, the criminal act of human trafficking is for adoption, or Colloquially called - baby theft. There are various associations of parents and let them feel that it is not necessary to pass a special law on missing babies, let them think that, some believe that the Commission established a solution to their problems, some believe that it is only an abuse and that in this way you are distracting people who are trying to come to the truth about what happened to their children, in some cases tens of years ago, and in some cases very soon. What everyone agrees on is that this amendment to the Criminal Code should be done because very often it happens that people who are missing children in the maternity ward, who are said to have their child died, only after a few years of realizing that there was something wrong in the procedure, that they were not familiar with all the facts, that they were pushed to sign various papers, and that they were not even aware of what they were signing. Then when they start seeking justice, it turns out it's already too late and they can't do it anymore. I really don't know why you don't want the crime to happen - stealing babies becomes a crime that doesn't get old. If the problem is that someone from the opposition suggests it, I am willing to talk, that I give up this proposal, is neither mine to deny it, to propose it to someone from the ruling coalition, to propose it to the president, I see that its draft laws go to public hearings and come to the Assembly's agenda. Let's just help these people, because they're really going through things that we can't even imagine. Do not make the National Assembly an additional stone in this country that they stumble over, which prevents them from learning the truth about their children. So the only change in the Criminal Code that I'm proposing and I'm looking for is to include among the crimes that don't go out of date, in addition to the acts that are now there, the crime of stealing babies. I ask the chairman to ring the bell, if that's the only way for you to react, but let us adopt this amendment to the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49480	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -11, against—no one, the abstentioned, has 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Here you go, Dr. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49481	Thank you. When we adopted the Law on Agricultural Land, we pointed out, and this was also pointed out by the Regional Government at the time, that there are several very controversial provisions in it which, above all, refer to the issuance of state agricultural land, since the law is formulated in the same way as the provisions that apply to this particular matter are formulated so that a third of the land in each local self-government in Serbia can pass the law, past the tender, past any public procedures, past the criteria, be allocated to the businessman or businessman or tycoon, or as it turns out later on, the party's official in power by the free choice of the president of the municipality and the Ministry of Agriculture. We then warned that it would be a country that would be the best quality in these municipalities, because none of your business partners wanted to take a country that would be of worse quality. We warned that this procedure would be non-transparent, that this land would be obtained by people close to your foreigners. We had no idea, however, that this would even go to such a scale that you would directly assign the country to your own committees, so in Zrenjana, the best agricultural land in state-owned property was given to a boardman, who, by the way, had voted for that decision, and he himself, who had been founded three days before that country was assigned to him. We warned that there are tens of thousands of farmers in Vojvodina who live exclusively from the country's state-owned work. We warned that these people took loans, that they were in charge, that they invested in what they were processing, and that you would make it impossible for the country, which they were working on so far, to give to their business partners, to make it impossible for them to deal with agriculture, to drive them away, or to stop dealing with agriculture or to work as paralegals on the land that you gave to your business partners. Then We warned you, and now we warn you, that which you give to your tycoons is not yours. This country is not SNS, this country is not your tycoon. This is where the land of the duchess took away from the swamps, and when it will be returned to them, and your contracts will be broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49482	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -11, against—no one, with abstentions, has 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2018. Here you go, Dr. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49483	Thank you. Of course, it's about the last time we adopted amendments to the Higher Education Act, and that happens, I'd say, once in a few months, the changes were very strange. What the law says is that the only reason why we adopt amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education in this form is that the Minister has proposed, and this National Assembly adopted, is that one of our colleagues, who is under the circumstances and, with the support of the SNS and the chairman of the Education, Science and Technological Development Committee, could be accredited by his university for ten years now, which has not been accredited. Namely, these amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which were then adopted, provide that executive power through the minister personally has an impact on the accreditation process. In some ways, all those people who have refused to accredit and one study programme of our fellow Mufti Mufti Zukorlic's university during the ten-year period have been released, since the pressures he has put on them were truly unseen in both the First-degree decision-making and in the Second-degree I think there is no person who participated in this accreditation process without being exposed to intimidation, pressures and threats by our colleague, the chairman of the Committee on Education, Education and Scientific Development. So it is obvious that Minister Sarcevic will now enable counterpart Zukorlic what no institution in this country that is responsible for accreditation of study programmes has allowed him so far. It was clear from the proposed changes that the only reason why we adopted this law is because of that, and I call on you dear colleagues now to cancel all this by these changes, which I propose, to return the decision on the accreditation of the university to those bodies that are professional, not those who, under political or other pressures, are really not able to enter into your relations with my colleague Zukorlic, to make a decision about it. I think it is our duty for all of us to make sure that the level of education that our students, who our children receive, are at some appropriate level and I urge you to vote and correct what Minister Sarcevic has proposed, and you allow previous amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49484	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - five, against—no one, the abstentioned, has 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Aleksandra Jerkov and the connection with foreign intelligence agencies and spy services, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2018. Here you go, Professor. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, do you remember Alexa Zunic, a meeting spy or legendary Nusic character in the satirical comedy "Suspecting face"? Prost, as he was, however, realized that the Serb society's then best profit was at snitching. Alexa Zunic, his rattling out of a lucky spy, wasn't hiding it, but it was open, that's how he introduced himself. The question arises – was it the wish and the honourable MP Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, when she wrote her biography on the largest Internet encyclopedia. In the mentioned biography, on the “Wikipedia” of the esteemed MP, Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, stands, quote – that several trainings have passed as well as several informal forms of education, seminars and training of the CIA on political engagement have completed the quote. Perhaps the honourable MP, Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, really has a desire to be our Alexa Žunic today. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can you imagine an American Congress or Senate sitting in a congressman or senator whose biography says that he has passed several informal forms of education, seminars and training in Russian, federal or foreign security services. Such an opportunity would not be given to run for Congress or Senate, but would probably have been arrested by American services and processed, or vice versa, is it possible for a Russian MP to happen in Duma, who was politically trained by the CIA? This would likely be carried out after political training in a federal security service or perhaps even in prison. Dear People's MPs, there is no state in this world that would allow a national MP to be a person like Dr. Aleksandra Jerkova, to publicly boast like Alex Zunic, a meeting spy in her biography, that she was passing political training in some foreign intelligence service. The question arises – what is the intention of the CIA to train a Serbian politician and vice versa, which is the motive of our esteemed MP Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, to go to training and training at the CIA, if it is known that the intention of the CIA is to direct these politicians towards work for US intelligence? Therefore, the education of the polling committee is extremely important and the answer to the question and the objection to the celebration in Novi Sad is now given in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49486	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote – for 12, against – two, with abstentions, of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2017. Here, Dr. Jerkov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49487	Thank you. I'm very sorry that this proposal has not been adopted, Professor. Atlagic, an esteemed colleague. I hope that at one of the next sessions you will still accept that proposal. And at this session that is to begin, we will most likely adopt the agenda so that we will unite 64 points of the agenda, that one of them will be just to amend and supplement the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and that, as usual, no one will talk about it, nor will we be able to talk about it. And this law, like everyone else in education who has come to the National Assembly in the past five years, is not going to bring those children in schools to those teachers who work in schools and not to those parents who are concerned about the quality of education that their children get, bring anything new and bring nothing they need. I think we'll all agree that our schools need to be modernised. Our schools need reform, our children need real knowledge, our children need modern trends in teaching, our children need a break with that old teaching method, how we all went to school, which is to sit for 45 minutes, listen to what the teacher tells, and next time you get an assessment depending on how well you interpreted what the teacher was saying or what the book says. Our children need teachers who will be paid honestly and with dignity for the work they do, because I believe, and I know that many colleagues here also think that they are doing the most important work in our country. Our kids need teachers who won't be on the street anymore, but in classrooms, and they're on the street because they don't hate kids or because they don't like working with kids, because if that were the case, they wouldn't even choose to be teachers, but they're on the street because they can't be polite, they can't live off their work, because for who knows what time they're being cheated again. Today they were in the National Assembly at a meeting that many of the members of the Education Committee learned only after the meeting began because they no longer know who to turn to. To be clear, these are not people who are eager for money, who are eager for wealth, those who are eager for wealth, would not decide to be teachers and teachers in life. They'd probably be doing some business. It is only their desire to educate our children properly, and it is our obligation to enable them to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49488	Thank you. I am putting this proposal to the vote. I am closing the vote: for – four, against – no one with abstention – has 155. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts in the role of the highest authorities in Novi Sad, in connection with the privatisation of the ATP "Vojvodina" and the construction of an inter-urban bus station in Novi Sad, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Here, Dr. Jerkov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49489	Thank you, Vice President. I have to say why we're proposing this committee's education. This is not my whim, this is not something I read on the Internet, something I read in Wikipedia or any regime or anti-regime tabloid. What I'm about to say is in the VX verdict. The verdict was reached on 9 May 2013, in a dispute against the City of Novi Sad for something that happened at a time when the president of our Parliament, Maja Gojkovic, was mayor of Novi Sad. It is very important to determine exactly what happened in the conclusion of a job that has cost the Novosadians four million euros for the time being, and all the chance that this figure will be much larger, since there are several more disputes in this case, that they are all going in the same direction, that in all arguments it is the same, and that when the Supreme Court ruled the verdict of one of these cases, this four-million-euro money has already been removed from the New Sad City account and these are the money paid by the citizens of Novi Sad to the jobs of Maja Gojkovic with the ATP company "Vojvodina". In this judgment, dear fellow Members, it is very important that you hear, says that the litigators in the dispute in making and accepting the offer, and then the conclusion of the contract, were unconscious. Unconscious because they knew they were negotiating something that was illegal. On page 10 of the verdict, the contract concluded by the litigators is obviously contrary to certain social norms and principles of bond law and contrary to good business practices. On page 11, the verdict says -- it's both parties' fault and their guilt is equal. Let me remind you, one of the contractors is Maja Gojkovic. This stems from the joint will, intent and objective of the treaty, resulting in the fact that both parties were, in that sense, on, so-called. The same task, from previous exposure, related to security, motive, bad intentions, an unauthorized object, no doubt, is the same as the responsibility of the Contracting Party. This implies that there is a shared responsibility for the damage caused in equal proportion. The Supreme Cassation Court found that Maja Gojkovic had equal responsibility for the damage caused by the dispute that cost Novosadjane... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49490	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for –5.2 versus – no one, with abstentions – has, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Dr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2018. Does colleague Jerkov want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marjan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Aleksandra Jerkov and the connection with foreign intelligence organisations and spy services, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2018. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49491	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when trained by the CIA, when the MP is training the CIA, not the BIA, when Americans who are so sensitive to contacts with other foreign services do so, that even the president wants to call, only if they determine that he had any contact, even through social networks, with, say, Russia and the Federal Security Service. That same America is training our MPs. They train them to lie, I guess they train them to work in the interest of all those who are against Serbia. She's CIA and Mom and Dad. Well, to see what it looks like, when the famous paratrooper, Aleksandra Jerkov, won't say that 300 thousand social and cooperative countries were sold during their government for 200 euros a hectare. That's how much rent is paid today. When he won't say that Sharico, a drug dealer, was selling the combinations. She won't say it, and she's doing it for the steam. Now I understand why they're jumping to the Popins election, by the polling stations, I thought it was because of the election, and it looks to love the paors. But, joke aside, she let go of this tweet - death to fascism. It alludes that Serbia is fascist. I guess the CIA taught her to do that. Serbia is not fascist. Interestingly, it is the person whose party is in the coalition with Dvori, with Ljotics, who were the only fascist supporters, as far as I remember, in Serbia. She's in a party that Gilas pushed into debt slavery. That same Gilas packed Roma in containers to build a building. So she's talking about fascism, and she's moving in a society that can easily be characterized as such. Furthermore, Mrs. Jerkov has released this tweet – citizens today are spontaneously coming to see the king's monument, which will see Novi Sad for the first time today, the forged Novosadians, for falsified history. Mrs. Jerkov should know, Novi Sad and Serbia have not united, they have united the day before, and on November 25th, Banat, Baka and Baranja. It wasn't Srem that united within today's borders, it was that I met with Vukovar. I'm meeting Vukovar, Mrs. Jerkov. Also, you miss Baranja, Mrs. Jerkov. And the Serbs and the Novosadians did not unite, and I guess the Serbs who united with Banat, Baka, Baranja and Srem have the right to see Novi Sad or fascist think they have no right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49492	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 May 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Mandates of Non-Nazi or Fascist Organisations and Associations and to prohibit the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist Symbols and Marks, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 25 October 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against—no one, abstentioned – none, of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. Comrade Zivkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49493	Thank you very much. As you know, there are seven-eight laws that I insist on proposing and some four are related to health issues. Of course, it's important in every country, and super-developed and less developed, even with us here. The first in that group of laws is the addition of the Law on Government, where it is required that in the Government over Article 11 and Article 11 change and reads: "healthability, incompatibility and conflict of interest", and says Article 11: "Before the Government is elected, any proposed member of the Government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies". Furthermore, the text also states about conflicts of interest and incompatibility of functions. I was already saying this a year and a half ago, but, let me just say it one more time, maybe somebody else will hear it. The point is that people who want to be members of the government, as well as those who want to propose them to one such place, must be sure that they are capable of performing functions, of working, of hiring, in state bodies. Otherwise, such confidence medically must have anyone who wants to be employed in the government, in government services, whether it's a secretary, a coffee cook, someone who works for the IT sector, someone who drives, who provides, all of them must have health assurance that they are capable of working in state authorities, except those who have been and have been candidates so far, and certainly some have been elected ministers. So, for example, we have one minister, one of three variants of the defence minister, who jumps with a parachute about a foot high. For this there is also photo documentation, which has been published. And then it's normal. Or, you have a Home Secretary, who except for falsifying diplomas, PhDs and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49494	Comrade Zivkovic, this is really inadmissible to say that. I know you're proposing a law, you can do whatever form you want to pack it up and do it, but you don't have the right to talk like that, about anyone, not just ministers in the government. Whether it's the Secretary of Defense or the Minister of the Interior, it doesn't make sense with such disrespect and in such a way, I feel free to say, you're a primitive way of insulting people. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49495	So, there's a photo of the jump from half a metre. I can quote anything I tell you. The interior minister identifies the tragic fate of a 2008 protesters with the attempted murder of one of the opposition party's presidents. It can't be evened, and in particular it can't be done by someone who's the Minister of the Interior, if he's normal. Or let the Prime Minister tell you about an event. The event from 11 months ago, the event was the murder of Oliver Ivanovic. Either the Minister of Traffic or whatever it is, he says he has to move one hill, because he wants to go after Corridor 10 in the Gredile ravine. Or it convinces you that the companies that work on corridors work around the clock, night and day, and when you go there, there's no living soul. These are all reasons to adopt my bill and I call on you to vote for it, and in historical practice, Serbia happened in 2000, that is, in 2001, when the first democratic one was formed, and it looks like the only democratic government was Zoran Djindjic, Serbian and democratic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49496	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—any one of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. Comrade Zivkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49497	Voting for this bill is a matter of honor, a matter of humanity, a question of patriotism, a question of humanity. I propose that in the Labour Act, the last amendment was in 2014 in Article 187 paragraph 1 of the amendment and read as follows: "During pregnancy, maternity leave, absence from child care, absence from work for special care of children and absence from work due to temporary prevention of work for more than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract". So this has nothing to do with ministers jumping half a metre, with this party or that party, with 90s, 2000s, this one or that coalition. Here's the question is, are you fellow Members of all parliamentary groups, and especially those who are the most numerous here, ready to vote that the employer can't fire the employee if this happens during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, leave for child care, leave for child care, leave for temporary prevention for more than 30 days? It's a question, I repeat, humanity, humanity, normal view of life. I expect you to vote in favour of this bill without the bell and Paul's effect and thus create conditions for investors who come into this country and domestic investors, I'm sure most of them are doing it right, but even those who don't do it are forced to respect the basic principles of Europe of the 21st century, which is that when someone gets sick or doesn't give God when his child gets sick or doesn't give God when his child gets particularly much, that he doesn't have to fear for his miserable job of 200 euros, where he can't go to the bathroom for that money and that he doesn't have to expect that text message from human people to finance the life of that child. Half a million people have left this country since this coalition was in power, that's international data. I guarantee that at least half of them are gone because there's this law of work and this kind of attitude towards the people of this country. Vote for and show that there is humanity, at least in the tracks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49498	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for seven, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one among the 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2016. Here you go, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49499	We are still in this group of laws concerning health this time, and the bill on the election of the President of the Republic of the "Official Messenger" is added in Article 11(3) post-point 2a) which reads: "medical confidence on the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state authorities". So, as I said earlier, candidates for a member of the government should be obliged to have that doctoral confidence, so should candidates for the post of president, and I think it is perfectly logical, as the next bill applies to MPs, and that means that we must not allow ourselves to appear at least among the candidates, let alone someone who is not capable of working in state bodies, and not for physiological reasons, but for some other reasons that modern medicine defines as "F" diagnosis. We have an obvious case. We have a situation where someone says they're going to build a chip factory six years ago. It's not gonna happen. We have a situation where someone buys a fake Mercedes sign at the flea market, stick it to the Icarus bus, and say, "Here, investment." You have someone who brings you "Tenis", a German company that slaughters pigs, because Serbs have no idea they're slaughtering pigs, is that something Karadjordje exported to Austria, or the empire and Milos Obrenović and many others, but now they're going to teach you German how to slaughter pigs and then he says it's civilization progress. Or someone tells you that in apartments over the fourth floor you can't make children, and that's the information that's important for building apartments in the north of KiM, or to tell you that we have to make, of course with the Chinese, the Danube-Morava-Vardar channel, so that that water goes into which seas of the Aegean or the Black Sea? Since Vardar is going to the Aegean, and the Danube is going to the Black Sea, and the water cannot go in two directions, either one way or another. And, you don't have to be a genius so you know, it's learned from the knowledge of nature and society if you're a normal man, or it promises you half a decade that tomorrow's salary will be 500 euros, and then it says, and it's back to agreeing that since January it's going to be 470. We've got to stop it. We've got to get everyone to check it out before they get to a function.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49500	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for five, none, the abstentioned, have any of the 155 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49501	It is not too late that although this proposal has been going on for almost two years, it is now being adopted. Here, it is obvious that we are all facing an end, so it is not dangerous, you who have been chosen, we are not going to be users of this amendment to the law, but it would be good because of the many examples that we have seen not only in the last two years, because in the last 20 years, even more than when it is a multiparty in Serbia, and even before, it was not interesting, that people who are running for MPs must have medical assurance about the ability to work in the state bodies, which would be an amendment to Article 44(2) after point 1) would be added point 1a) which would read: "medical confidence on health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state bodies", it is about the law supplementing the Law on selecting MPs. If that were to happen, let's say, if we had such a law, we wouldn't have had a situation where some who accuse others of being trained at the CIA or I don't know where, they look like they were training in an institution in Nis called the Training Centre and it's part of Serbia's Army. He's trained a special kind of, as I would say, an army-serving organism. I see by voting for the first three proposals, that for reasons that would be sanctioned that there is such a rule in the law, that you will not vote for this bill, but I guarantee you that the first normal, healthy democratic authority will be elected by the will of the people to introduce it, and that means that rarely anyone who can be praised will once again be elected as MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49502	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there are none of the 155 people's messengers against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49503	It may have been renewed in 2016, otherwise it was first installed in 2015, then a hundred years since the launch of genocide over Armenians, which was carried out by the Ottoman Empire in the period from 1915 to 1922. Why would the Serbian parliament bring a resolution on the genocide conviction. If I have to explain this in the Serbian parliament, then I think that earlier law you did not vote for must be adopted. More than 20 countries, including Russia, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and many US countries have recognised and condemned the genocide of Armenians that was carried out, I said during what period. Given that the adherence of the Republic of Serbia to international principles and rules on the prevention and condemnation of genocide is already expressed in the Law establishing museums of genocide victims, it would be perfectly normal to adopt a resolution aimed at condemning the genocide of the Ottoman or Ottoman Empire to one nation that has not earned either of them, nor collectively that genocide, which is in this case Armenian. I think that the citizens of Serbia of any nation, especially Serbs, and especially those who think of themselves as large Serbs for any reason, should be the first to support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49504	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one of the 154 people's messengers against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49505	And this law is not so direct, but it indirectly concerns and deals with health. What's the suggestion? The proposal is to change the law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, to add Article 49 to the vote – it is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media broadcast in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to submit electoral lists for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements. What does that mean? This means that advertising on television is banned for any political party, for any group of candidates, whether proposed by the coalition, by the individual party, by a group of citizens or anyone, because in this process it spends somewhere between 50m and 100m euros when the elections, when the general elections are in one year, which is a huge figure and with that figure, we could absolutely solve this painful, difficult and unsurpassed issue of treatment and children and adults from diseases, where treatment is not possible in our country. The total level of money needed for this purpose is somewhere over 50m euros, and it would certainly be directed by those couples, which are not the money of party members, their voters or sponsors, but are the money of Serbian citizens who are in a direct or indirect way, or by crime, transferred to the pockets of political parties' tops, to help resolve the issue of children's and adults' health, and to protect Serbia's health from everything we can see on TV when election campaigns are. Not only lies, not just sick lies, but it is, but I have spoken and I will repeat once again, aesthetically, morally, politically, legally unacceptable form. For those who ask themselves what, how will citizens find out what the political party, which election list, which exists, I have to reveal to you something that has been forgotten in the last seven-eight years in Serbia, which are duels, the share of political competitors on television. Here's one who presents as president of Serbia last night offered to be in a duel with ten opposition people. I said right away - I'm here, so let's see who's going to lie now, whether I who I've been proposing to him for seven or eight years, while he was still a little vice president of the government or the one who suggested it last night. I call on all the televisions that we pay to make it possible to meet someone who presents himself as president of the state and us, his political opponents, so we can see who's lying and how much he's lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49506	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has, in total - 157. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Markovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Vinograd" affair and the assets of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2018. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49507	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the public in Serbia is interested in finding out how Zoran Zivkovic got rich. That is why I have proposed the formation of a survey committee to determine all the facts and circumstances related to the "Vinograd" affair, whose actor is former speaker, former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. It will be an ideal opportunity, if you adopt a proposal for the education of the polling committee, an ideal opportunity to get a wider and complete picture of how the former prime minister managed to get rich at a time when Serbian citizens were suddenly poor. It was a time of robbery privatisation, it was a time when companies and factories were shut down and shut down, it was a time when workers were out of work, but, well, it wasn't bad for everyone at the time. Someone has also managed to get rich, like the previous speaker, but Serbian citizens have the right to know the truth of how they got rich. Serbian citizens have the right to know that they received 41m dinar grants or 525,000 euros in grants at that time. So we need to get a wider picture of whether there was an impact trade, whether there was abuse of official position, whether it affected someone to allow them to get that kind of money. Then what did he do with the money? What happened to those vineyards? I'm afraid, and the survey board should investigate this, that of all the subsidies, of all the vineyards, in the end there is only a huge apartment in Vračar, a duplex on Vrakar. The information we have is in favour of serious corruption and serious crime, because we know who we're dealing with. We've been dealing with a man who's been in politics for a long time. Zoran Zivkovic didn't show up here yesterday, so let's just take his word for it. We've known him since he was the federal interior minister, at a time when terrorists from the so-called "majors" were released. The KLA and the Mazreka brothers and Albin Kurti and Flaor Brovin, etc. He then served as federal interior minister. We know him as long as he was mayor of Nis, when he called on the citizens of Nis not to pay bills for utility services, so at the end of the day when he entered power, he left them hanging, then he forgot that they were burning in barrels, theaters like that, electricity bills. We also know him as he served as prime minister, when he seduced the state of emergency, when he arrested people, seduced the terror, terror, censorship, media darkness and everything else. That's why I think the Assembly should... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49508	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Zivkovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49509	We had an obvious example of why a medical examination should be introduced for candidates for MPs. Here, let him know I don't have a duplex on the Wizard. I'm sorry. I wish I did, but I don't. As for subsidies, the word “subsidy” means grants, but without medical conviction it is difficult to understand. Finally, there are nice things, that 41 million were then half a million euros. That means the course was 30% better than today, and at the time I was prime minister and when I arrested only 12,000 criminals, and there was little, then the course was 67...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49510	A colleague of Zivkovic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49511	But if we went back to the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49512	You didn't arrest him, did you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49513	... amending the Law on the financing of political activities, it deals, in part, with legislative regulations that should prevent rude, primitive, corrupt TV campaigns at the time of the elections. Let me remind you of one more thing. This law prohibits commercial representation of political parties at a time when they are not elections, outside the campaign. For the time being, I suggest that the campaigns be abolished, but when there is no choice, when there are no 40 days, how long the campaign usually takes, there are no commercial emissions, transmissions, direct or delayed political gatherings of parties. The Pink TV has made several wrongs about this transmission of SNS gatherings. I call on the competent authorities to deal with this and to file adequate reports in this regard. Therefore, to end all advertising for political parties, representatives of the electoral lists, whether they are individuals, whether in the group and that the state money, which is in fact the money of Serbian citizens, taken over taxes, and shared with political parties in part legally and criminally, is directed towards the treatment of children and adults who cannot find a cure in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49514	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Atlagic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the privatisation of the Duvan industry and the involvement of the then state summit, headed by then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Does MP Marko Atlagic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49515	Dear Vice President, Mr. Arsic, here we have heard Mr. Zivkovic and he from the SNS, as you have heard, is calling for patriotism. Dear citizens, it was a man who expressed patriotism in a way that suggested that all workers from Jelizara Sisak be sent home, Jelizara shut down, on the N1 (CIA) show. (Marian Risticevic: Smederevo, Smederevo.) Smeder's. It's a man whose party president, and he hasn't given up, called for our country to be bombed and our children to be killed. Furthermore, it is a man who has damaged the budget by 563,000 euros just because he has kalemed the vine on the grass. According to a general assessment, privatisation during DOS was a robbery. According to Michael Hudson, editor of Serbia's International Press Research consortium, Risticevic noted, 51 billion dollars since the privatisation robbery. During privatisation, the tobacco industry Nis damaged the budget by 387m euros. According to former tobacco industry workers, Philip Morris never paid 387m euros at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, for which he bought the Duvanska Industry. They claim the factory was sold below the price and damaged 160m euros on various grounds. Dear gentlemen, in 2003, Mirko Cvetkovic signed a contract on the sale of 66.45 social capital, Zoran Zivkovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic and Bozidar Djelic attended on behalf of the government of Serbia. The real value of the tobacco industry was 1.1 billion euros. It is suspected that Zoran Zivkovic has deeply immersed his fingers in these malfeasances, that he has taken a high commission after which he has been significantly increased and his property map, today says he has no property, and has a duplex in Nebojsa's street in Vračar. Here, let him say, get up, have it or not? He is suspected of polluting the mustache and his party counterpart, Bozidar Djelic, one of the biggest European robbers to destroy Serbia's banking system, especially Beobank, Belgrade Bank, Invest Bank and South Bank. That is why it is very important, Mr. Vice President, that we form this committee of inquiry, to examine the malversions done by Mr. Zoran Zivkovic and his rest of the halls. He's alluding today that we all need a doctor's examination, he doesn't need a doctor's examination, he needs something else. He needs a madhouse.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49516	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49517	Of course, Nebojsina Street was mentioned in Belgrade, where I allegedly have a duplex. I don't have a duplex, I've said it before, but probably my colleague doesn't know what a duplex means, because he doesn't know what Smederevo, Sisak, was Tudjman's MP, whether he was and who he came from, what he teaches, doesn't matter. Anyway, for the tobacco industry, Nis has two data. A month ago, the Prime Minister was there and thrilled that Philip Morris had done it, 850 million total investment for the past 15 years. Secondly, Sinisha Mali ran a tender for the sale of the Nis tobacco industry, so ask him tomorrow when he comes here about all the details. Sinisha, Dr. Mali led the sale of the tobacco industry Nis, Beopetrol, the tobacco industry Vranje, etc. As far as the law is concerned, this law is in the text I've already given you, already adopted in 2003 when there was one in Serbia, I'm not going to say last, but one good government is not the last good, but to say good, which was done by, say, wild construction, as it happens in Nebojsa 12, if I'm not mistaken, where I've warned several times, where it's built by an underground garage facility that has three floors, where the day you pass today you'll see that a cable goes from a meter to a half from the ground directly through the entrance door of the facility, and that's how it is powered by electricity. So, children, adults or anyone who passes there can commit suicide whenever they want, and they may not die with their own will, and that's how it stands for a year, and a municipal inspector, city inspector and minister Zorana Mihajlovic, and a parliamentary question, a memo. There are five solutions to destroying this facility and building today. It's a picture. Of course, in addition to the greatest illegal construction in the history of mankind, after the pyramids in Egypt, this is “Belgrade on Water” we have this case. At a time when this law was in force, it was a criminal offence to start construction without a building permit, and it was preceded by an urban permit, a building permit, a connection permit. It was a felony that if you come to the meadow and you don't have a permit to build, with an ace and a stick, you go to jail. Today we don't have a circus, we have a pig house. Look at Miri. I've been there recently, so since I don't know that part of the city, I take it to Google to see 16 streets called Duke Boyovic. Sixteen blocks of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49518	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the A.D. work permit for insurance of "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49519	A few years ago, private security, a house mentioned in a proposal for the establishment of a survey board, "Tavo", found a buyer abroad. To be clear, there is no, in "Sahu" there was no state property, the ownership of funds, anything, it was private property. Another big house that bought for small money state insurance houses in Serbia before what I'm talking about, scared of the competition and convinced the governor of the NBS and all those there to raise the bells or to do something else when they hear the bells, to find ways to prevent that purchase by driving "so" into bankruptcy. Break all possible laws to come to this and allow one foreign insurance company not to gain competition, and that competition would lead to a reduction in the cost of insurance, whether it be life insurance, from this or that danger, real estate insurance, car or anything. That's why it's necessary when the state authorities in charge of it, let's say the state prosecutor, who no one knows where he is, we've still found where this vice president of the Serbian List and others is, but where the state prosecutor is, no one knows. Shut up, it's not giving signs of itself, I know it's reliable that thank God she's alive and well, but somewhere she's gone, so maybe this committee of inquiry would lead us to see where our Attorney General is and what's more important, where our justice and justice is in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49520	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49521	The law would be amended by adding point 1a in Article 4 after point 1a), which is academic integrity, and after Article 5, 5a) which would read – academic integrity is based on independent works, as well as strict respect for other people's copyrights. But I'm completely prevented from further explaining the issue of academic honesty, because most of the people present could not understand any of these two words, so I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49522	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Vinograd" affair and the assets of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Does MP Marijana Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are, listening to him as academically congratulatory, I guess he won that academic title by buying a high school degree in Macedonia, in Bitola. So, let's quote Confucius. He said that nature gave us two eyes, two ears, and one tongue, so that we can watch more, listen more, and speak less, for wisdom can never be expressed as much nonsense as it can be silenced. So that's what Confucius said, and he probably meant Zoran Zivkovic. I don't know if he mixed drinks today, and he said a lot. He said he could get subsidies, because they're subsidies, now to explain to me where's that vineyard he got the incentive for? He's gone. Sold it right away. Is it true that he planted the vineyard on the land he rented in November and planted the vineyard that same year in March? Like Houdini. In March, he planted a vineyard on a plot purchased by the state that same year, but in November. So he planted it in the air before the deadline. Also, that parcel was the subject of restitution. As former prime minister, he had a contract with the people to return the land to previous owners. He flew into that land and now we have to pay another 500,000 euros to compensate for the damage to the restitution, because the land that was the subject of the restitution was usurped. So that's the truth about that affair. And he can say whatever he wants and apparently that he seriously mixed those drinks, because he said something else – that the government of Zoran Djindjic was the only democratic government, which means that his was not, as he did not go to the doctor's appointment, because he was not Djindjic's minister. When he became prime minister, he abolished his medical examinations. Then he messed up completely and said the course went 50% during this government. That's not true. In 2012 and this year the course remained the same. This was done by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the same government that gave you the vineyard, the same government that, while giving you the money, fired 400,000 people. And that's why it's supposed to be the board of inquiry, and that's why you have to answer. And, uh, don't call the D.A.'s office. The D.A. is the godfather and you know it well because your wife is working with her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49524	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act. Since she's not here, I'm putting this proposal to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Energy Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Jovan Jovanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Jovan Jovanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Jovan Jovanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Samo government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49525	Thank you. I have been proposing this law for a year and a half, and it concerns the alignment of the Law on Student and Student Standard with the Law on Local Self-Government. So this law would only allow the presidents of the municipalities and the mayors not to break the law when they want to help their gifted students, students to be scholarshipd. Unfortunately, you won't put this on the agenda. I have suggested to you that you propose this law, because it concerns mere form, the alignment of two existing legislative proposals. Since it happens in this assembly that in a year's time you adopt the same laws, three times the same law you adopt and change, I don't think it would be a problem if this bill was passed. That was promised to me by Minister Sarcevic in one of the discussions I had with him. Unfortunately, here, I still suggest, and you refuse. And I'm going to ask you again to propose this law, because as far as Serbia's future is concerned by our best students, our best students, concerns their families who need to finance their education in one of the general poverty that you brought this Serbia into. Because of this general poverty that the government has seen for the seventh year in Serbia, 600,000 people have left the country in the past five years. As your President Vukic said, 107 people leave Serbia daily, your party president said 107 people leave Serbia daily. Of course, you don't see it in this budget either, so for the student standard in the 2019 budget you cut four million dinars for the student standard, but that's why you left Tomislav Nikolic for his Office for Co-operation with Russia and China 41 million dinars, which would be far better if it had been transferred to the Youth Gifts Fund. So, those who are not your target group in terms of the electoral body and students who do not represent capillary and secure SNS voices, are not your target group, and therefore should not be surprised when 35% of young people in Serbia today say that they do not want to live in Serbia, but that after schooling they go to live and work in some orderly countries, in countries where you have rights, in which you have justice, where you are busy and paid enough for that job you do. So I invite you by who knows which way to vote for the motion of this point to be on the agenda of this law or suggest you, I will agree with that very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49526	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 2, v – no one, abstentioned – no one. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – one. No proposal accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – one. No proposal accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a Law on Taxation on Undeclared Income of Citizens. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Zdravko Stankovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – one. No proposal accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The peoples of MP Goran Bogdanovic proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on amendments to the Law on Public Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – one. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – one. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – draft law on the proposed law. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – one. This proposal was not accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49527	Thank you, President. I suggested that a polling committee be formed so that we could determine what the media situation is and what the state of the progress of freedom of expression is in Serbia, because from the moment you adopted a set of media laws in Serbia has become dark. Dark for all of those citizens of Serbia who, every day, are deluded 24 hours a day, telling the truth and lies about some prosperity, the progress of Serbia, the reputation of Serbia, etc. Every day, here, for seven years, people have listened to your stories that they will be better living standards, that they will be paid more, that Serbia will be in the EU, that we are in the world, we have a large number of friends – Russia, China, that they will be better retired, employees, young people. Unfortunately, in real life, everything is the opposite of what they can see in the media. What is a particular reason for forming this survey board is how all citizens of the Republic of Serbia spend money, because your project financing of the media is nothing more than a corrupt mechanism for financing the media that is close to the regime. So, you are the money of the Serbian citizens, which flows into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which flows into the budgets of local self-government, public enterprises, etc. You finance the media over which you have absolute financial control and by coming out of the media ownership structure, you've actually just replaced the financial control with the media and the tabloids. You can see that this year in Belgrade, in a 90 million dinar contest, as defined for the media, the largest part was taken by "Studio B", "Informer", "Serbian Telegraph", "Alo" and other media that violate the press code and the Media Law every day at least once. You also finance Pink, which was received from the AOFI Export Funding Agency for 10m euros in three years, 10m euros and no one to answer what Pink exported for that kind of money. Of course, the RTS tax provides for you to raise the citizens of Serbia, because it is very neat and zealous, because in this year, Vukic made 3.523 contributions to RTS, 10,893 minutes, 181 hours or 7 days non-stop. Normally, you will raise and finance your media, because these photos of the beaten Borko Stefanović and the footage of none of your regime's tabloids have been transmitted, not one daily newspaper, and certainly no RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49528	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -three. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49529	Thank you, President. This is also one of the laws I propose already for who knows which way, and it concerns the obligation to form local communities in the territories of each local self-government, both in the city and in the rural area. Regardless of the fact that almost all local communities or in most local communities are managed by SNS personnel today, you do not want to adopt this bill, because in one part it implies financial decentralisation, or allowing local communities to be financially independent from the will of the president of the municipality or of a minister, but that one part of the property tax, which is created in that local community, which is paid by citizens living in that local community, can decide on their own how and in what way they will spend. Unfortunately, there are a very small number of local self-governments that have self-initiatedly done something like the town of Sapca or Triestenik, while some other government there has been through a participatory budgeting programme. Unfortunately, fiscal decentralisation, in fact, is a loss of power. In this way, all the money is in your possession, everything you take from the Serbian citizens merges into the central register of a man who, after his assistants, Sinisa Malo, Prime Minister Brnabic and others, gives instructions on how to spend these money and then Serbian citizens shouldn't hear what we are saying in Vranje Hole, but that's why we're building Belgrade on water, because Zrenjanin doesn't have healthy drinking water, but here in Belgrade, we whale the city in August and September of the month, while half of Serbia is shutting down street lighting at 12 hours because municipalities don't have the money to pay the EPS. Take a little walk at 12pm through Serbia, and you'll see if there are any cities outside the city's core with street lighting. They don't. This is proof of your policy towards Serbia, according to local self-government, towards Serbian citizens. The Serbs live in the dark, and that darkness began during your reign, and everything is different from what you say. That is why I call on you to adopt this bill, to show a little bit of what you are saying in your regimeal tabloids, which is that you are caring for the citizens of Serbia and their interests, which does not match what is in the real state and real life of the Serbian citizens, who are getting poorer every year under this regime of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49530	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49531	Thank you. Since small family agricultural holdings in Serbia are the largest employer. It employs between a million and a half million people and lives out of it in agriculture of 638,000 agricultural holdings in Serbia, it would be perfectly natural and normal for a country that should base its development, among other things, and for agriculture that should be one of the central industries, to show it in action. Unfortunately, since coming to the power of the SNS with its partners, agriculture has been devastated, farmers have been impoverished and barely put an end to it. I will remind you that in 2012, when the SNS came to power, you wrote in your programme that economic and political commitment to agriculture is a strategic economic branch. The agrarian budget will increase significantly and its height should be at least 5% of the total budget in 2012, with a minimum increase of 1% in each year. Today in 2018, if mathematics doesn't cheat on me, the agriculture budget should be 11% of the Republic of Serbia this year, and he is, beware of miracles below 5% and you say, this year, we have reached an increase of seven billion 4.8% of the budget. This violates the law on incentives in agriculture and violates what you promised farmers, which is that you will give them more money. Don't give anyone anything, you don't help farmers, you just take them, especially when campaigns come, so when you go after Serbia, you promise towers and towns to peasants. It seems to me that this story will no longer pass, which is why, unfortunately, in Serbia between 700 and 800,000 hectares of farmland today, it is not working, because you do not base agriculture on our farmer, so that you can raise subsidies and incentives, so that you can fuck him up diesel fuel, so you can give him land to process in Vojvodina, but you give it to the "Tenis", you give it to the Arabs, you give it to the brother Alexander Vukic, Andrej, who also became a farmer. You are selling the PKK with 17,000 hectares of land in the city of Belgrade, 17,000 cows, etc. for 104 or 105m euros, and then for 58m euros from the budget, pay compensation for these same workers and promise our farmers that you will develop according to President Vukic, in agriculture, based on the export of pig heads, papaks and chicken legs to the Chinese.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49532	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy on stock companies from the "First Five-year-old" Tristenik system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49533	This is a typical example of corruption and your thieving face of your regime. That is why I have proposed a decision on the establishment of a survey board to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy against the first five-year-old in Triestenik. So you shut down the company by cheating on workers as a reason for bankruptcy to apply for severance, or social programme, because there was no other way to introduce bankruptcy, because the company had no commercial debts, except for the state, or the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. If the state didn't want to start a bankruptcy, no one else could. Then you told the workers – take the severances, the sea factory goes bankrupt, that requires the IMF and the World Bank, and then we'll make you a new one and get you back to work. The workers did it, and then you built a new private company. The private company was run by the same staff who ran the Petolet until it went bankrupt. The SNS staff, one of them is a senior official, vice-president of the municipal board in Tristenik and then used it, made contracts with a new private company, with the same customers for 70% of the exports of everything the first 5-year-old exported and sold and these same products are now sold by a private company under SNS control and by buying everything that remains in stock in the repro material of finished products and by the semi-product of the old "Petolets". “ So this is a typical example of thieving and corruption on the line of the Ministry of Industry, the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, the bankruptcy judge and the management of the First Five-year-olds in Triestenik. That's why I invite you, if I said anything false right now, to adopt this proposal for a polling committee and to prove that this isn't what I'm saying. If there's nothing to be afraid of, if you've pushed the "Friday" banner into bankruptcy and shut it down, let's at least adopt this polling committee, so we can talk about it within the institutions. Otherwise, you admit that there has been an unprecedented robbery and a crime against citizens who have lost their jobs, 2,000 of them, and that they continue to be robbed there. For two years, there is no result on the course of bankruptcy, or how local self-government will settle its claims, or what will happen to workers who have lost their jobs and who are brutally complicated by this regime. I urge you to vote on a proposal from the board of inquiry, so that you may be able to do what I'm talking about, prove it's the opposite. If it really is, and I know it's not...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49534	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for -two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The MP Alexic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in a part of the city known as Savala, 25 April 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49535	I thank the president. What happened with the destruction of buildings in downtown Belgrade, in Savala, is the top of the haughtiness and crime-mafia face of the government that is today ruling Serbia. So, when in one state that needs to be a democratically decorated state, a state in which there is a rule of law and rule of law, under cover of night, someone with bangers ruins someone's facilities that are privately owned and that no one has been responsible for what happened for two and a half years, that we don't know who did it in downtown Belgrade, that the president of the state at one point said that the complete idiots from the top of Belgrade's government had done it, that they would very soon tell who was responsible. And we've been waiting very soon for years. We still don't know who destroyed the buildings, tied the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, deprived them of their freedom, under phantoms. So, you've introduced phantoms into the institutions of the system and they're the mirrors of your government. If you wanted to show a little bit that you're not really that, which is a criminal mob government, you'd find those responsible here and punish them for it. When you send such a message, to your beating orders across Serbia, that criminal acts can be done and carried out in Serbia, without anyone answering, you should not be surprised that the assassination of Borko Stefanovic was attempted, nor should you be surprised that Oliver Ivanovic was killed cowardly, nor should it surprise you when your members come across members of the People's Party in Vranje and brutally beaten by four of them and many other such examples. You are sending a message to your behaviour that anarchy is at work in Serbia, that those responsible will not bear any sanctions. The prosecution, the police, the courts are part of a mob criminal octopus that is under absolute control of the ruling regime. There is no freedom in Serbia, there is no democracy in Serbia. You want to create fear, thinking you'll rule for so long. Well, gentlemen dear, be absolutely sure that when the citizens are free of these chains of fear they will have someone to turn to, which is you, and today think about what you will do tomorrow when you are no longer in power. That day isn't far. You will all welcome that day, and then think about what you were doing while you were in power and how you treated the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49536	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalizing vote: in -two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The MP Alexic, suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments System of Public Sector Employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49537	And this is one of the laws that we propose many times, and I understand why you don't adopt it, because everything that needs to be arranged systemically in this country doesn't suit you. You are not responsible for the functioning of the system institution, it is not appropriate for you to operate the laws, you need anarchy, the rule of political power of individuals or one man, and so you can develop your autocratic regime in the right sense. Therefore, when we talk about the pay system, I think the citizens of Serbia should best appreciate what they got, and what you promised them when you came to power seven years ago. So, for the seventh year you've been in power, promising towers and cities, promising a better life than that, it seems to me that there's nothing left but an empty story and smoke. Because today, citizens of Serbia are among the poorest in Europe. Almost least paid in Europe, the average earnings in September following today's report by the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, 405 euros. Far away from those famous 500 promises Alexander Vukic since 2014, four years, every year, here he is. You'll see that, you'll welcome that 500 euros, but I don't know when. Here we have them this year, they won't be there, so now they say they will be in 2019, so it'll probably be some 2025, but I hope it won't be you then, because you're not able to raise and secure a higher standard of living and pay better for the citizens of Serbia. So you told the pensioners that they would never see more pensions, that the pensions that you are paying them in this year would be more than 8% to 13% compared to those that were last paid before the 2014 cut. Those who were luckier received the same amount, and those with a smaller one received as much as a thousand or two thousand dinars less, but should be happy, because the president sent them a letter and told them - thank you for giving me money, thank you for stealing money from you so that I could boast and spend that money on my projects, fountains, Belgrade on water, Kip Light and various other projects of corruption that you make in this country, and you stole 800m euros from pensioners. So when you don't have a wage system, that's why you don't have people left to run Serbia, but go to work in other countries. Those invested in Serbia, in which our citizens invested, paid for their education, are leaving and working around the world today. Every year we get between 50,000 and 80 thousand people all over Europe and the world. It is the beginning and end of every story of your better life and your successes in the rule of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49538	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on financial support for the family with children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49539	You know, serious states define priorities, define plans, but before that, they determine the current state of affairs. If you had done so, if you were not only dealing with the media, propaganda and lies for the sake of remaining in power and misleading Serbian citizens, you would realize that there is no bigger problem in Serbia today than a demographic picture. So, gentlemen dear, 600,000 people are less in Serbia in six years of your reign, which is why those who have left Serbia for their existence and better lives in orderly societies, as little as born to those who have died. Every year, based on negative natural growth, Serbia loses one city of 35 to 40,000 inhabitants. It's the alarm, you need to understand, that this economy, the wrong one you've been running these seven years, is, to the most extent, to blame for these trends and this state. Then, when you say at one point, the famous Alexander Vukic, that for each first child, 100,000 dinars will be given out of the budget, ten thousand per month for a third child or 12 thousand over ten years, for four 18 thousand euros, as if it gives out of its pocket, well, then you tell the citizens – here, Vukic gave it. It doesn't give the Wolf anything. That's our money. That's all of us's money. But unfortunately, he didn't give them up, because you passed the law, the law that you discriminated against by your parents and pregnant women on maternity leave. You reduced the amount of compensation they had before the law was passed. How do you plan to raise your birthright? How do you plan to fix that picture of a negative natural growth in Serbia? By making it difficult for your parents to get a child’s allowance, a parental supplement, by taking money from pregnant women and mothers. Nothing is a problem for you, and you will continue to advocate in the media to solve these problems, and in practice, the citizens of Serbia will either decide to have fewer children or to flee from Serbia, and then face a million less governments under you in ten years. That's the result of your work. Look into everyone's eyes, there's no one less responsible, and he supports this power. Everyone who supports this policy is responsible for making us a million less in ten years under you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49540	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Excise Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49541	It's a excise law, it's a part of health. So, the proposal is to introduce excise duties on soda-free drinks that have negative effects on Serbia's citizens' health, on our children's health, and I was thinking, since my colleague Djurisic suggested it a year and a half ago, that you would accept it, because at one point even the health minister said it was a correct proposal. But, well, anything that comes from the opposition, I guess it's not good enough to distract you. When we talk about this excise law, on the other hand, you do not plan to reduce excise duties on what affects the pockets of Serbian citizens. As you won't introduce yourself to this health thing, so you won't take off your excise duties on fuel, so you've completely impoverished farmers and other citizens who pay for the most expensive fuel in the region. You did not want to and were prepared to reduce excise duties on oil derivatives in moments when the price of oil on world markets fell drastically, but at that time you were filling the register and rubbing your hands taking money from this poor and poor people in Serbia. Then when the price of fuel in the world markets started to jump, you weren't ready for any moment to correct that excise and say, well, now that the price has gone up, let's shock that leap to our citizens by giving up one piece of excise duty. No, you sent the police to those citizens who protested against the price of fuel, wrote them misdemeanor reports, and you forced them out again, and you charged them with fines because they blocked the roads, as is happening today in much more orderly European countries, such as France, where citizens protest against both the authorities and the president and the prime minister and all others. And you were here sending the same beatings that beat up Borko Stefanovic in Krusevec the other day to dissipate the citizens from the blockades. These are your special crimino-mafia orders that you send from the municipality to the municipality to participate in election campaigns, to intimidate citizens, to threaten them, to break down blockades and to attack anyone who is willing to think for themselves and to rebel against your regime. But with such a dictatorship, you won't get far. No one's in history, so neither will you. So I urge you to change your policy and reduce your excise duties on fuel.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49542	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49543	When you talk about business and entrepreneurship in Serbia, you should start from the beginning, which is how the state refers to them. You have announced a variety of reliefs, legal and all kinds of reliefs for our businesses in Serbia, domestic entrepreneurs, that they will get better treatment from foreigners, that domestic economy will develop. Unfortunately, all that remains in your pink media and your tabloids. In practice, there's something completely different. So today you should not be surprised that Serbia's GDP has our domestic companies participating with only 30 per cent, while the average in Europe is 60%, in developed Scandinavia countries it goes up to 70%. Of course, in Serbia, this will not happen with such a devastating economic policy, because you and the businesses in Serbia and our entrepreneurs serve only when tax inspections are due to go away, to terrorise them and to charge them with what has been drawn out to be on a particular territory of a branch of the tax administration to collect, to merge into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, for you to spend after that money to come to mind. And the tax procedure is important, because tax inspections are acting like harrakes, because that's what you're making them do. You're forcing these people to go and recalibrate businesses in Serbia, so no one can say a single word. There are examples where they go on the campaign. Tax inspectors collect safe votes for the SNS, under the threat of bringing solutions to businesses, punishing them, etc. No prevention, no warning under your autocratic rule, but right in your pocket. As you take money from citizens of Serbia, pensioners, soldiers, farmers, health workers, workers in education, you also take from businessmen in Serbia. And they're also a victim to you, the target you need to rob, like you've been robbing them for the last seven years. If that weren't the case, you'd at least do something you promised in the past. Of all that, you've changed four or five ministers of the economy. Each of them put strangers first. You give the foreigners tens of thousands of euros for the open position of cable braiders, where the salary is paid from 25,000 dinars to a maximum of 30 and you think it will trigger Serbia's economy. Well, of course you won't. That's why we're at the beginning. As the world has developed over the past five years with 23% cumulatively, Serbia has developed with 5% of GDP. This is the result of your economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49544	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted for it. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on traffic safety on the roads. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – two. No proposal accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49545	This law implies that the harmful law that you have passed, which has left local self-government units, i.e. municipalities and cities across Serbia with 4.8 billion dinars of profit tax that has previously remained for people living throughout Serbia. And you MPs who voted for your cities and municipalities from which you come have less money in your budgets are directly responsible, and you show that here in this House you do not represent the interests of your citizens and your cities from which you come, because that way you would not vote for such a scandalous law and would not vote against the interests of your cities and municipalities from which you come, but rather you would represent the interests of your citizens, not the interests of your party heads and your party headquarters and vote against what your municipalities and cities stand for. This is a scandal for a country that seeks to be a member of the European Union. So below 10%, 9% of the total revenues generated in Serbia, everything goes to local levels. The practice in EU countries is that it is over 30%, in Scandinavia countries over 50%, but it is because it would be clear to the citizens, because you want to master everyone, it does not suit your system, it does not suit you to all be the same, and to those municipalities and cities where opposition parties and those in which the parties of the regime are at the republican level, but simply all of it is with you. Then the one who listens to you, you give him a little more, the one who's not from the SNS, you give him nothing, such as Capac, Paracino and other cities, and you discipline these SNS guys, so if he won't listen by chance to the party headquarters and act in accordance with your partial system, you give him a little less, but, of course, to the obedient one who loves the hand, you give him more. So in one day of 2017, you transferred 40m euros, without any criteria, to local self-government units for current budgetary liquidity. That's how it's repeated year after year, there's simply no system, you take your citizens' money with you, and then you spend that money on your political activities and on the propaganda that local levels of government are supposed to carry out. That is why it is not appropriate for you to change the electoral law, it is not appropriate for Serbian citizens to choose the name and last name of their representatives, but rather to place on every bandit in Serbia and every municipality and local community of Aleksandr Vukic, and you hide behind it, because you cannot go to elections alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49546	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Income Tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49547	Well, you've tried something to do with this law, and here it is one of the 62nd agenda points that will be held at this session and we'll discuss in the next days something, I don't know what, within a large number of points, but this is one important thing, by taking down only 1% of that tax in your bill, and also by what the opinion of the Fiscal Council is, and other professional people from the economy in Serbia, it's clear that it must be reduced in order to facilitate and create a better economic environment in Serbia, above all for private companies, and on the other hand, in order to reduce unemployment in the Republic of Serbia. You have all the statistics, and you have the "statistics of our Dick all that he paints" and you play with it and you figure out both the amount of GDP and the percentage of the unemployment rate, and you think it'll all go unpunished. Well, you can't, dear friends, when you don't adopt these laws that you have GDP growth. You can't base it on Yuri, Leoni and the other cable braiders. You can't expect a public debt to fall when there's no economic activity, when there's no GDP growth. You lie to the citizens of Serbia. You're saying the public debt fell from 61% to 55%, and it was 24.4 billion in June this year, now in September, that is, October of this year, 24.3 billion. So he didn't shrink at an absolute amount, but you came up with it, so you said, "yeah, now we're going to change the methodology, so the Republic Statistics Institute on one side makes for the period 2015/2017." In the years of new estimates for GDP growth, the finance ministry is also revising the GDP assessment for this year and you say -- wow, it's bigger by 2.5 billion GDP and we're going to have less public debt, it's a game of statistics and citizens of Serbia. As you say today, unemployment in Serbia is 12%, you don't mean probably all those people you take off the bureau, if within three months, they don't report on records that they're restoring it, and no one's answering anymore because nobody's calling anywhere anymore and, of course, those who leave Serbia permanently move out so that there's no normally those who are able to work, and in Serbia they have nothing to look for their country in the system doesn't recognize them. We're the only country in the world that seems to be reducing the percentage of unemployment and not increasing the percentage of people employed. So much for your honesty and what you tell the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49548	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the municipality of Trstenik Miroslav Aleksic and the Fund for the Promotion of Citizens' Resources. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Alexic has told several large lies. He can compete with Baron Minhauzen in what he says is false. Just a moment, so he doesn't get away from me. Mr. Alexic here complained about subsidies, said we were robbing peasants. Well, in 2012, when Jeremic boasted and he along with him, as an incentive, totaled, and the same course of the euro was 19 billion 945 million. Now Mr. Alexic pours crocodile tears over subsidies and incentives that this year, 41 billion 580 were planned for the next year. It is not necessary to be very smart and to find that for the fostering of the agricultural government, unlike that of his, Jeremic's Bahate stands out 115% more. Instead of 19 billion 945 million, we stand out 41 billion and 580 million. The difference is in the next, I during their power, as a farmer I got nothing, let alone a tractor. He's been given a tractor, an incentive during our government. I'm asking you, could anyone from the SNS or me who was the opposition during the yellows get a boost? Of course not, but we don't discriminate and everything he said is talking about him, not us. I see that with the deep problems they left behind, we must overcome the shallow people. Well, let's start with the Human Resources Fund. Here's how Mr. Alexic boasted about Vuk Jeremic. He founded an association of citizens who, through the National Employment Service of Trstenik, where his father-in-law was his father-in-law, transferred to an association of three members, where he was, father-in-law and mother-in-law. The Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources transferred money to collect, for example, leaves in February, for the care of old people, the three were fostered by old people, and an old person who had been nursed has not yet been found. Well, on April 17, 2012, four million 277 thousand, and then on April 12, 2012, 11 million 876 thousand, 28 February 2012, four million 537, 4 May two million and 60 thousand, 29 April three and 900, 15 June 947, a total of 55 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49550	Thank you. I put this proposal to the vote for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs, and no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo and the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, and while Mr. Aleksic boasted 55 million about which a ten-seat application was filed in February 2016 that I believe the polling board will be questioned, Vuk Jeremic went after the embassies and lobbyed Boris Tadic to be president of the Republic again and asked the US Embassy to delay the declaration of independence until Boris Tadic was elected president of the Republic of Serbia. That's what happened. Boris Tadic took an oath in February of the month, I think 14th, and on February 17th, Albanians declared independence. I've got a couple of chaps here, WikiLeaks, and I see these Dvora guys laughing because now they're at the same wavelength, they have the same boss at the U.S. Embassy, on October 27, 2006, the number of dispatches 06-7806. Jeremic sought support for Boris Tadic and so on at a meeting with Jacques Shirak, and made it clear that their top priorities for joining the EU and NATO are their top priorities. Well, then join the EU and NATO again. Jeremic said Serbia wants full membership in the alliance as if that's what Boris Tadic wants. On October 5th 2007, Depeša, 7th, 2008, Jeremic and Australian Ambassador Peter Volkot, and Jeremic said that he and Tadic would prefer that the meeting was open to the media for domestic political reasons because it would help against Tom Nikolic and that they would introduce Hashim Thaci into the Security Council. So it is clear that Vuk Jeremic led a treasonous policy. I believe that if this country has the will, that if the prosecutor decides to do his job so that after Vuk Jeremic's return he can initiate the procedure for the country's high treason because the same man along with Tadic, Djilas, Borko Stefanovic, could change the UN resolution, eliminate Russia, China and bring the EU into negotiations. The same man sought the opinion of the International Court of Justice even though he knew Kosovo's independence sponsors were sitting there. The same man put a border on Brnjak and Arinj between Serbs and Serbs. So I believe that on his return from New York, where he was involved in a corruption affair that weighs 7.7m euros, where he sold the country for money and a chair. So, I believe that through the survey board, we can collect enough material for Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic and Dragan Gilas to be tried for high treason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49552	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote a proposal from LJupka Mihajlovska to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting on the vote by MP Vladimir Đurić to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the name of the pension reduction under the Law on the provisional way of determining pension payments. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of Parliament of Nenad Christmas to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of Parliament of Monday to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Budgetary System Act. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Aleksandar Stevanović to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. Finalising vote: for – one. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Aleksandar Stevanović to supplement the agenda of the session to the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting on the vote by MP Djordz Vukadinovic to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, president of the Serbian Citizens' Initiative "Democracy and Justice", which took place in Kosovo Mitrovica on 16 January 2018. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Gjorge Vukadinović to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Gjorge Vukadinovic to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put to the vote on a proposal from Parliament by Sanda Raskovic Ivić to complete the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances and to look at the situation currently in which the "Belgrade on Water" Project is located. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put MP Slavo Ristic on the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a dramatic increase in violence against Serbs and non-Albanian populations in the north of Kosovo and Metohija from 2013 to today. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Enis Imamovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49553	Thank you, Your Honor. We also suggested that today's session be included in the resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, proposed by the Serbian Parliament for adoption. We believe that because of the society in Serbia, it is extremely important to consider and adopt this resolution, which is the first step and the first answer to one of the biggest open issues in which it is being broken and every beginning of building trust, reconciliation and co-operation between the Serb and Bosniak people and between the two states will be broken. As representatives of Bosniaks, the people over whom genocide has been committed, using the legal framework, we propose this solution as an adequate mechanism to stop the spread of fascism in Serbia and may freely say encouraging new genocides that we have seen in the last case even from the prime minister. The first consequence of the prime minister's statements was the direct involvement of convicted war criminal Ratko Mladic in a morning television programme with a national frequency, with the ministry and REM's tacit consent. What's next? What legal certainty and equality can be expected before the law by Bosniaks in Serbia when the prime minister and government in the most harsh way violate and deny the judgments of international courts? On what basis can we expect the Serbian state to solve other crimes committed against the Sandzak Bosniaks if we know that Anna Brnabic, on behalf of this government, has thrown all these crimes out of the Action Plan? It is necessary for the state of Serbia to accept the facts, but also the rulings of international courts, the UN said it would condemn the genocide against Bosniaks in Srebrenica and ban the denial of the genocide. The most important thing is the release of young people, future generations of Serbs and Bosniaks of this burden, because future generations must not be the hostages of your unpreparedness to accept the fact that a genocide has been committed against Bosniaks in Srebrenica and that someone has done so, hiding behind the names of the Serbian people and the state of Serbia. I am sure that the vast majority of Serbs do not accept that war criminals are hiding behind their names and names of Serbia, just as I am sure they do not accept that convicted war criminals are in these assembly benches...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49554	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there are no four abstentions for – two against – four abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Žika Gojkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. Does MP Žika Gojkovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Žika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49555	The President-in-Office, honourable presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here, after countless proposals on committees of inquiry, pyramids, Armenians and other priorities, I was given the opportunity to talk about the amendment and addition of the existing Labour Act. The intention is to achieve the highest productivity of employees, preserve employee health and reduce employer costs. Therefore, the Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement proposes to reduce working day and week working hours, as well as overtime. This will have a direct impact on employees, as they will come to work more rested and fresher, thus being more efficient in work, more precise in performing their work tasks and better in communicating with clients. By improving working conditions in terms of work cutbacks, it will directly affect the preservation of staff's health, as it will be less exposed to burdens arising from physical and mental labour efforts. By encouraging the preservation of staff's health, the benefits will not only be achieved by employees, but also by employers, as they will save on the costs they would have for the absence of post-patient employees, and therefore would not have the need to engage a new workforce. Since I have a little time, I'm just going to make a few provisions. It's that, for example, in article 51 full-time, instead of 40 hours a week, it would be 30 hours a week. Then, employees can't work longer than 10 hours a day, including overtime, which would be a double hour. The working day would normally take six hours, and in case the employee could work up to 10 hours a day, that means that the employee could work at most a week for 10 hours a day, which would be 38 hours a week, including overtime. The adoption of the proposed law would achieve the objectives which are aimed at achieving the same, which are more productive work of employees, preserving employee health and reducing employers' costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49556	Thank you, fellow Gojkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, with abstention, has a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Žika Gojkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the VAT Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 October 2018. Would you like the word of your colleague Gojkovic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement, I propose a supplement to the VAT Act. More specifically, a proposal to lift the VAT on baby equipment. This would be one of the system laws attached to the state white plague strategy. The state has brought certain measures that no doubt produce results and function, I mean incentives and a financial programme for families who have more children, but those measures themselves are not enough. This proposal complements these measures and encourages the strategy itself. The reason why it is proposed to supplement the existing VAT law is the intention to improve the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children, through financial support for families with children, and to improve the material position of parents, and thus to encourage the birth of children. Food and baby equipment would be considered milk for infants, spoons, cots, wheelchairs, feeding chairs, car chairs and diapers. It should also be added that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget and that the law is in line with EU rules. I'd just add, when we're talking about babies, I believe it's finally matured time for the state to deal with the systemic theft of babies from the maternity ward that took place in the '80s, the '90s. I think it's a challenge for this government to do something that all the other governments have been running from so far, and some of them have suffered under the carpet. I'm sure that's when the fight for the family will make full sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49558	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for—four against—there is no one among the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the killing and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. Does Nemanja Sarovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for three, none of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the committee of inquiry to determine the facts and circumstances concerning the pressures on the state authorities and violations of the law during the elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does Nemanja Sarovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven against—a total of 154 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Bill on the Rights of Fighters and Families of the Dead and Missing Fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Here you go, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49559	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law, or the bill on the rights of fighters and families of the dead and missing fighters, is very important. Twenty-seven years waiting for such a law to be passed. All countries in the environment already have such a law, and even this quasi state "republic of Kosovo". In this proposal, the law defines the concept of fighters and time from 1990 to 1999 both in time and in territories where members of the JNA Army of Yugoslavia are located, and the concepts, the concept of fighters and the concept of veterans are also specified. In this area, gentlemen, the government is free to say chaos, as there are over 1,000 fighting and veteran associations in the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that the government has so far not wanted to have one republican representative association, so it is being manipulated so that we have alongside the municipal associations, we already have alliances of veteran and fighter associations and assemblies of veteran and fighter associations. These are some resourceful individuals who have 50 municipal organizations in their alliances or assemblies, and they are now serving as their personal interests or interests only a certain number of individuals to collect funds from the budget, and these are also tens of millions of dinars. Those funds never come to real fighters. Furthermore, this law regulates this bill to establish a single record of all fighters from 1990 to 1999, as well as that these fighters get what they're actually looking for, a national recognition in the form of the 1990-1999 Memorial. Also, the very monument in which they would write a time in which they were engaged in the defense of their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49560	Thank you, General Delic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 13, of the 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending family law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in public lately, I'd say even in recent years there's been a lot of controversy about problems, and there's a mention of stolen babies, and there's a number of malversions of competent authorities, social services, above all, taking children from their parents, assigning them to foster families, adoption, etc. It's all kind of under serious suspicion, unfortunately. What is particularly public, causes dissatisfaction among citizens, is the fact that social services from them are taking children from poor parents because they say parents cannot feed them, and then they give them to foster families, and foster families receive 30,000 dinars per month on behalf of them. So it's completely illogical, instead of giving those 30,000 a month to those parents who are poor, to feed and raise their children themselves. Why are you doing all this? Because, unfortunately, a number of Serbian children end up adopting abroad. And, when it was adopted, passed this law, we Serbian radicals were then strongly opposed to our children being adopted abroad, and that is why today we have suggested that this member of the family law be deleted. This is Article 103, because the adoption of children abroad is mainly done on the basis of corruption and malversion of social work centres and others involved in the process. On the other hand, it is a legal obligation for these centers to accompany a child in that family in which it was adopted, to see how it was adapted, how it is taken care of, etc. When a child goes abroad, there's no such thing as a possibility anymore. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this should be a contribution, the adoption of this proposal that we have made, the contribution and the struggle to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at least declareably, to increase the birth rate in Serbia. There is no need for us to give up those children born in Serbia in such a poor state of population policy. If their parents gave them up, Serbia must not give them up and those adoptions must all end right in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49562	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none of the 155 people's MPs against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49563	If we want to restore the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly and return parliamentary spirit and parliamentary democracy to the National Assembly, we must amend the Law on the selection of MPs. The flyers are something that really disgusts the National Assembly and the parliamentary life at all, not just for us here, but for the general public. The citizens don't like to go to the polls. They say -- what should I vote for, I vote for someone to be an MP for one party that I want to vote for, he comes to parliament, goes to another party or fifth party. We've had this in the past several times, and it's in some way legal by the decision of Boris Tadic, and his contractor was Gordana Komic, when they made a decision from the Constitutional Court that the mandates belong to the MPs and then they stole the mandates of the SRS and made a party representing today's power, which also today, at least what we read and hear in public, no longer have sympathy for flyers, and it's good that they do. He learns best in his mistakes. But today we have a situation to complete a working day with a certain number of parliamentary groups, we come here to work tomorrow, the number of parliamentary groups has changed, members of the parliamentary groups have changed. He came on one list, meanwhile went to another party, then into the third parliamentary group. Simply, I cannot even call such people MPs, because they are a disgrace to both the MPs and this Parliament. That's why we think it's necessary to amend the law into three members. The first is, that is, the one that is most important, to actually introduce into the law the provision of a member of the Constitution that regulates this matter, where the Constitution says that the MP can entrust his mandate to the party, or the list from which he was elected. And, of course, if we passed this law, no one normal would allow anyone who didn't do it in advance to be on his list, because why would someone invest in funds, energy, etc. to promote someone for an MP, and he goes to him, so he goes over there to this side. You know, when you look at it, we really don't know who else it belongs to. They are here and they belong to Vuk Jeremic and Sashi Jankovic and Mark Mark Markkovic, who knows who doesn't. We have to, people, stop this, and this is constitutional and legal what we're proposing. We also suggested that MPs cannot and should not be selected from the pre-determined lists, but that those lists be determined by whoever they are, or the list from which they are selected. But here, I see time is running out. I hope to talk about it next time, but I'd really like to ask you to vote for this. If you're honest with me, here's what I'm saying, if you're all honest with me that we need to clear up with flyers, to be a serious parliament, vote for this, and that's what we're gonna end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49564	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for the nine, against the abstentions, among the 155 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Ambassador Vukajlovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is necessary to change a member of the law that will allow our country's compatriots from Republika Srpska to issue their citizenship to the Republic of Serbia within six months. Already 50,000 Serbs from Republika Srpska have applied for the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. They did not do it for any pragmatic reason, because the special relations the Republic of Serbia has with Republika Srpska allow young people to be educated here, those who are at some age to be treated for both our VMA and other health institutions. But this is very important to them, because it is a confession to identify with their queen, with the Serbia they love immensely. That is why it is necessary for Serbia's MUP to shorten this process. This member of the law I asked for has not been defined by a deadline within which the ministry approves and resolves positively at the request of any Serb from Republika Srpska. Sometimes it is unreasonablely long to wait, not only 50,000 of them who are in the process, but also those who have received citizenship after a few years, and some are ultimately necessary not only because of this identification with the queen of Serbia, but because some of the living statuses solve with the part of their family living here, such as in the case of marriage status, parents and children and many other cases that really make it impossible for those people to function in the way they want them to, and all their eyes and their hearts stand up in Serbia and look at Serbia as the most valuable thing in their hearts and where they truly belong. You need to know that Serbs from Republika Srpska, from the creation and beginning of this unique space that is surrounded by the creation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, when they united in a space of Orthodox, Muslim and Catholic religions, made a great contribution to the development of the country and, ultimately, in the last country wars to defend our cities and areas west of Drina and this would be necessary. Therefore, I ask you to accept this proposal so that they get a positive response within six months and have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49566	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ruzica Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the laws on human organ transplantation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49567	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for today's session, in addition to the agenda, we have submitted amendments to the Law on the Transplant of Human Authorities, and amending Article 23. Namely, this article introduces a assumed consent that automatically becomes organ donors if we don't contact someone from the Biomedicine Authority and declare that we don't want to be donors. With this legal solution, Serbian citizens are threatened with the risk that in the event of a brain death, their organs will be transplanted without their will. Amendments to the Law on organ transplants are proposed with the aim of abolishing the assumed consent of each adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The assumed consent also leaves a huge space for abuse and can lead to organ trafficking, although this law explicitly prohibits and treats it as a criminal offence. Also, one of the negative effects of the assumed consent that can cause major damage is the self-relation of a patient doctor, i.e. the trust between doctors and patients has been lifted. The law states that the organs are taken from the deceased unless the person before death has objected orally or in writing. In this way, there is no guarantee that such a person will, at that moment, convey information to anyone that he does not want to be a donor. Also, another question of discussion is the question of brain death, because the man in the brain death phase is alive, because the organs can't be taken from the face that isn't alive. The Serbian Radical Party submitted an initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 23, as Article 23 violated Article 25. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that physical and psychological integrity is unhurtable, no one can be exposed to torture, inhumane and humiliating treatment or punishment, nor subject to medical or scientific examinations, without their free consent. That is why it would be good for this bill to be amended in Article 23, because the Constitutional Court can also make no other decision but to declare this member of the law unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49568	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – no one, abstentioned – none, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49569	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders which separate it from other countries or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare the AP KIM borders according to the rest of Serbia as interstate borders. We in the SRS are aware of the circumstances under which this occurred. We don't blame the current regime for the situation in which KIM was found, but we blame him for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244 guaranteeing the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244, and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to that resolution, Serbia has the right to deploy thousands of members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born on KIM, who spent his entire life down there until a violent exodus, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This team before the international circumstances slowly change for our benefit and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when KIM will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. There should be no compromise on state territory while all other topics can be discussed with the KIM-based Albanians. You can see that the Republic of Croatia also shows no hidden aspirations towards the part of our territory located on the left bank of the Danube River. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That is why I believe that by adopting such a law, which I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions about the necessity of putting the occupied part of our territory under our full control as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49570	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 154. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav LJubenović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49571	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children. The Republic of Serbia has been facing major demographic problems in recent decades, and one of the biggest demographic problems is the insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. A large number of young people leaving the country have been reported, so the share of the old population in the total population has been greatly increased. The economic situation in the Republic of Serbia is getting worse, so a large number of families face a lack of funding, which directly reflects the birth and raising of children. In view of this fact, it is necessary for the state to urgently take all measures to create conditions for improving the financial situation of families with children and to provide security in terms of giving state to future parents. The adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Financial Support Act to families with children would significantly affect the resolution of one of the biggest demographic problems, which is an insufficient number of newborn children. Financial support for families with children, in terms of the creation of rights under this law, would help improve the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children in families with children who are unable to achieve this on their own and the number of such families is increasing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which defined that the right to children's and parental allowances would only be granted for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia. An extension of the period of payment of the parental allowance for a third child until the age of 18, instead of the 10 years of life so far, for a fourth child to 18 years of life, instead of the 10 years of life so far, for a fifth and any subsequent child for whom the right to a parental allowance could not be achieved until the age of 18 would provide partially financial security for families with more children. As far as financial resources are concerned, it is necessary to implement this law. The position of the SRS is to make a permanent redistribution of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget and by finally stopping funding various NGOs and defining that money for the payment of child and parental allowances, as the SRS proposes these amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to families with children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49572	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 10, against—no one, with abstentions, has 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49573	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Law on Psychoactive Substances is very important because this law regulates issues that are of paramount importance to the health and safety of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As intoxicating drugs or narcotics act primarily on the nervous system by causing hallucinations, loss of motor functions, and other pathological and functional changes in the central nervous system, so far as these new drugs are daily, but literally daily synthesized, unknown composition and are very dangerous. In addition to hallucinations, they have a very harmful effect on heart function, raise body temperature up to 42 degrees, and cause dangerous internal bleeding. The plants from which these substances are derived are grown today on terraces, in basements, in garages, gardens, fields. Drugs are sold at every turn. The worst ones are drug dealers who have a school population for the target group looking for their own identity, often unable to resist this social pressure and testing and thus become an addict. The state doesn't work well enough or enough to contain this evil. When they catch a drug dealer instead of punishing him as an attempt at murder, they put him on a stick, and he, along with all his electronic jewelry, continues to coordinate and organize the job as soon as he's out of the field. Just to remind you that Margaret Thatcher has solved the issue of violence on sports grounds throughout England in 24 hours. Citizens see and feel this inability of the state to deal with this evil, so they tend to self-organize. An example is known of the people of Lazarets and the latest protests of the gathering of citizens of Arangelovac. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very alarming, and if we don't want to become a sick society, we need to understand that drugs can't be the thing where they react to the case, but they require a serious broad campaign of the entire society. Perhaps the government should consider forming a permanent body in the fight against this vice. In the end, I want to take the opportunity to make an appeal to all those who decide on this, which is that on some television channel with a national frequency in a regular time, a show will be organised to discuss all aspects of this galloping monster of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49574	Thank you, Professor Boyich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Despotovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49575	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the current economic, demographic and organisational situation in rural areas, we can conclude that our villages are already empty, that there are no more lives in them, that many households are abandoned, and many villages are left without any inhabitants, while the few lives are mostly an ageing population. Workable younger generations are mass going to cities and abroad to at least ensure a decent and normal life, which in Serbia unfortunately are unable to afford. That's what they're forced to do with a low standard, the inability to find a job, the poor quality of life. The trend has been dropping the quality of people's lives in rural areas for many years. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture, which the ministry's resolute ministry should take very seriously and accept it for a reason. The reason for the adoption of this law is that the state should stimulate producers by increasing the cash amount of the milk premium in order to improve the situation of farmers through concrete moves. It is also necessary for the lower limit of milk per quarter to be reduced to, especially where conditions for agricultural consumers are difficult and production is almost minimal. For this reason, the lower limit of the cow’s milk premium in terms of quality, instead of 1,500 litres, would be reduced to 1,000 litres, so that farmers with reduced production conditions could also exercise the right to a premium. In the same Article, paragraph 15 is replaced by the following: We propose to increase the amount of milk premium from seven dinars per litre so far to 10 dinars per litre. It shall then be referred to in Article 15(1). The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development changes the amount of basic incentives for plant production by increasing the existing solution, which provides that the amount of incentives per hectare is up to 6,000 dinars, to at least 9,000 dinars. I am taking the opportunity to ask Mr. Agriculture Minister a question, and the same can apply to the Ministry of Finance – why not resolve the issue of short- and long-term agricultural loans from 2004, 2005, where domestic farmers are in an uninvited position, because the executioners who fine their assets are behind their necks? During that period, loans were the only form of State aid, as there were no other subsidies. These loans are mostly granted in the range of 40,000-240,000 dinars depending on the size of the holding.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49576	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, has, of 153. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sreto Peric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Exploitation and Security Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by explaining this bill, I have to make one finding and a few facts. The fact is, of course, a lot, but time doesn't allow all of them to talk, but the finding, I think that this law to Serbian citizens who are otherwise known as the Law on Private Executors, has caused more harm and trouble than a criminal law in which a death penalty was provided in Serbia's legal system. It means one finding, and the fact that Serbian citizens have problems because of this, I will now try in this time. So, the Ethics Code on Public Executors was adopted in 2016 and it defined some of the objectives and directions in which they should behave, i.e. to move private perpetrators. They raise artificial costs and they exceed, the cost of execution exceeds much, they exceed the basic debt. Why is that? Well, it is known that the first law on enforcement and security was passed in 2011, brought by the DS. It was known then that a number of judges would not, or their prominent officials would no longer be in power, so they tried to provide them with jobs in this way and it is said that a place of private execution cost up to 50,000 euros in pre-sales. At first, in order to return that amount to their bosses, they introduced high fees for payment and realization, and later they remained, when the money had been sweetened, they later continued with such high fees to do so. Very often private contractors do not deliver solutions to debtors. The snakes on the court's advertising boards, so that citizens are neither able to see or can't intervene in a timely manner, i.e. to file objections. The perpetrators, instead of material responsibility and judicial responsibility, are sanctioned only by criminal penalties, i.e. the disciplinary responsibility of the Chamber. That's really pointless. The executor's discharge has no impact on the debtor, so if he made a mistake and if he was resolved, it's not a significant influence for the debtor at all. What's more important is that I remind you. Only some headlines that have recently been very often present in our press, which is - the perpetrators sold the house to them, kicked the children out in the cold, in Kragujevac house of 170 square meters sold by 5,500 euros, a 5,000-euro debt, these are very often, i.e. the debt to the bank increased to 70,000 euros, in Nis by 14,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49578	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. A fellow Savik isn't in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has, of 153. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs of the Dveri Group on 13 October 2017. Does the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic want a word? Here you go, Dr. Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I look at the hall of this high house now, I see that in my opinion here, there are almost no people who shouldn't support this declaration. It shouldn't be, I think they should support it according to how they are publicly declared, because the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language is something that is the obligation of all those who want to say to themselves that they have something in their political functioning that is right or national, regardless. However, I am fully aware of the fact, no matter how many times I tell you about something that is of the fundamental interest of the Serbian people, unfortunately for some reasons that remain rather unclear to me, it will not be supported. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expresses the view that all literary and scientific works created in Serbian are part of Serbian, spiritual and cultural heritage, including works of scientists and artists of non-Serb nationalities created in Serbian, works of Serbs of all religions created in Serbian, as well as works of scientists in disseminating. I really don't see anything in this first position about protecting Serbian language that can be questionable to anyone in this room. If we add that we have recently had a statement from the president of the state, Mr. Vukic, that we should be seriously working on protecting the Serbian language, my surprise team will sooner become even bigger. We are witnessing that in countries in the environment, including those once Serbian, there is a terrible persecution of the Serbian language. I ask you, colleagues, go from Beer to Niksic, from Niksic to Podgorica, will you find one single inscription in Cyrillic? You will, Firehouse restaurant, right in front of Podgorica. I'm telling you in agreement, because I went to see it. At the same time, regardless of what is in the Constitution, Article 10, that Serbian language is an official language, we Serbian citizens have serious problems that we have in daily use documents in Cyrillic and Serbian. Why do we need a driver's license on the Latino? Why do we need a passport on the Latino? Why? Because we do not have the strength to declare as MPs of the National Assembly one of these declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49580	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 150. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs of the Serbian Movement Group Dveri on 13 October 2017. Here you go, Dr. Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49581	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At first, I would like to thank my colleagues who have never supported that declaration in a large number. I will be persistent and insist on what I think is the interest of all of us here, and this declaration is almost something that is based on that first declaration. Therefore, protection of Cyrillic and preservation of the literary and cultural treasures of the Serbian language created on the Latin. Let's just get our colleagues out of this knowledge of the National Assembly and go to any side of our capital Belgrade, look at the ads, look at the inscriptions, and see what we see? That the letter that preserved the identity of the Serbian people through the centuries has been made out of unknown reasons completely extreme. Well, is it possible that Macedonia can have documents on Cyrillic? Well, is it possible that Bulgaria, Russia, is writing "Mecdonald" on Cyrillic, and we in Serbia, whose cultural heritage is on Cyrillic, one of the key national Cyrillics, are giving up. We say today, and whoever read this declaration could see it, that in it we emphasize that in the time of technology, information, for God's sake, since it is now a trend, our youth does not use Cyrillic. We have paid particular attention to those who are the youngest part of our population, to preserve their national identity, to their letter, because there is nothing in what is today in this modern technological language envisaged and that we cannot adapt to Cyrillic. How important the Cyrillic is and how many others identify the Cyrillic with us speak the worst attacks in our neighbouring Croatian state, when hundreds of thousands of them rise up to fight the Cyrillic tablets. So, they know it's us, and we're not passing one of these resolutions, we're not going to tell you what we are and who we are. So it's easier to get a Cyrillic passport in Montenegro, which I have recently cited as an example of a Cyrillic being haunted than in the Republic of Serbia. Let's go, colleagues, to show seriousness and protect who we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49582	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—any one, of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a declaration of honour to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationalities killed for the country, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs of the MPs of the Serbian Movement of Dvora, 16 October 2017. Dr. Vesovicu, would you like a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49583	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At one of the previous sessions, when I explained the proposal for a declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationality, I promised to tell you in each of my presentations about a bright case from the Serbian history of people who were not Serbian nationalities, who did a lot for our country. Last time I told you about Shemsa Midovic, Fehim Musikadić, about all those who were Muslim and in the decrees of the Duke of Dovena, and today I'm going to tell you about three Gypsies, because they called themselves from Leskovec, Ahmed Ademovic, Rustem Sedic and Amet Ametovic, three fighters in World War I and three great men, who had a rare and great honour to hang on their chests a Karadzic star. And indeed, it was hard for me to separate either of the three of them, but then I made a decision, so perhaps by weakness, to tell you today about Rustem Sedic, a gypsy trumpeter, who, in his heroic work in the same day, got a medal from regent Alexander and French General Franz Depere. It is, however, the time when the French felt us brothers and brothers, unlike this time of day, when something like that in their short-sighted policy today slips away. So, one rainy night, when it was thunder, Rustem Sejdić and Ilija Ivić and Buksan Strugopurtic cut the barbed wire, they enter behind the lines of the Bulgarian front as members of the iron regiment. Rustem Sejdic, on his trumpet, plays the Bulgarian retreat first, and then Serbian chases and the front line dramatically moves in favour of Serbia in 1917. Do we have a greater and greater duty to repay such persons as Rustem, Ahmed, or Amett? I thank the city of Leskovac, where all three are from, who has made a monument and a worthy mark, but we, as the National Assembly, must bring what we propose in the declaration, and what is called, the Day of Protector of Motherland and State Unity, as a state holiday, as a link that will bring together what we need to be brought together, and us who are the majority Serb people and those who are not Serbs, and Serbia as their homeland feel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49584	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—any one of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bosko Obradovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the situation in the Public Business "Post of Serbia", which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs, members of the Serbian Parliament Group of the Dveri Movement. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49585	Thank you, Chairman. So far, the ruling majority, since the beginning of this establishment of the agenda, has refused 141 proposals to supplement the agenda by the opposition, and it is not, of course, just now the case, but for two and a half years none of the more than 200 proposals of the opposition for the agenda came to the agenda, and it is not for you to adopt it, but for you to make it possible at all to find a agenda to discuss it, so if it does not deserve to be adopted, it can be rejected by the will of the ruling majority and after the debate. But it is particularly important for you that none of the subjects run by the opposition for two and a half years in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can come on the agenda. Now, we, the other MPs in the Serbian Chamber of the Dveri Movement, will try to bring some of the topics closer to you on the agenda, and so on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's poll committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the situation in the Public Enterprise "Serb Post". We have already established that no public competition has been held until the end for the election of the director of "Post-Serbia", which was announced on 10 March 2017, and under which conditions and under whose decision Mira Petrovic still serves as acting directors, although her term of office has long expired. Is it just because she's a coalition partner of the SNS, so she's allowed everything, or has some other reason? There are, of course, a number of disputed contracts on six million euros with United Media Group, then with Inex Plus, there are protests from employees of the Public Business "Post" who are constantly going on, the suspension of 47 workers due to protests, etc. I have two more reasons why this committee should be formed. The first is the letter by the president of the SNS to all pensioners in Serbia who came to the address of all pensioners in Serbia, not to be determined by the SNS president's address of all pensioners in Serbia. So, who misused the personal data of Serbian citizens, who gave the president of Serbia, or the SNS, all the addresses of all the addresses in Serbia, did it "Serb Post" or did the PIO Fund or who already acted here against the law and allowed the personal data of Serbian citizens to deliver to the president of SNS to send them a letter? Simply, there are citizens of Serbia who have received this letter with pain, as this letter stands behind the robbery of 850,000 pensioners for 850m euros for these four years. The second thing, here, is the pre-election flyer of the PUPS, which the postmen in the Municipality of Luciani placed in every mailbox, abused the "Post Office of Serbia" and using state and public resources for the pre-election propaganda of a party government. There is another reason why Mira Petrovic must be replaced, why we need a committee of inquiry like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49586	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bosko Obradovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding outstanding diaries for war veterans, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs, members of the Serbian Parliamental Group of the Dveri Movement. The word is Bosko Obradović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49587	Dear fellow MPs, I truly believe that there are topics in which we should not be divided into power and opposition, that there are indeed general national and general issues in which it is not at all as important as any of us here thinks and ideologically, politically or any other party sense. One of these topics, I'm sure, and the position of all war participants from 1991 to 1999, which has not been regulated yet. That is why I have publicly supported here, along with my colleagues from Dvera's MPs and the proposal made by counterpart General Bozidar Delic, to regulate the status of war veterans by law, because it is unacceptable that only the state of Serbia that has failed to resolve the legal treatment of war veterans, families killed in the country wars since 1991 and in general wartime disabled people and all others who are supposed to have legal treatment. We, proposing this survey committee, suggest that we actually determine the condition that certain war veterans have been paid off their war logs, and some others have not paid off their war logs. Is it normal for us to discrimination against our citizens who have equally participated in the defense of our country? That is why we are asking the question to be addressed by the survey board, how there has been a reduction in the rights to pay off fighters, military people with disabilities and families of fallen fighters. Let's check the application of the orthopaedic aid regulations, see what happened to building apartments from the Japanese donation and NIP funds, to establish criteria for funding the fighting-inhabited associations, see what happened to failing to exercise the right to a part of the fighter's health insurance. To determine and pass a codified law in the field of martial law enforcement. To disable the use of personal data by third parties and to obtain that data to the public and, of course, to fulfill this basic role of paying off all war logs for war participants, especially in 1999. What I gained as an impression in talking to numerous war veterans and their associations across Serbia is the next thing. They do not seek money first, and money is not a priority for them to be paid what is owed to them. It is their priority to have someone notice them from the top of the state, that they exist, that they were willing to give their lives for this country so that we today live in peace and in a relatively normal life. So, what's the problem with passing that law? What's the problem with stressing the role of all participants in the homeland wars from 1991 to 1999? They primarily seek respect, they primarily seek recognition, they demand that their country be remembered, if possible not in one, but in several calendar years to find a place in the budget. Now that you're saying it's such good state finances, why don't you go on a date and solve the problem of all war veterans who haven't paid off their war logs yet?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49588	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – there is no one who is abstentioned – of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Markovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the accidental spending of the funds allocated for the pre-election campaign, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2018. Comrade Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49589	Thank you, Chairman. The public is upset and there is a need to establish, that a survey committee is formed to determine the facts and circumstances related to the non-intentional spending of funds allocated to the pre-election campaign for the Dvera movement, the movement of the previous speaker who received the state money for conducting the elections spent on expensive suits, spent on famous capital restaurants. So he pulled money from private firms, but also from lawyers who allegedly paid a few million dinars, who after that money were returned to him in cash. So this is an affair that has been upset by the public, and I would like to form a polling committee that would closely establish this and give a broader picture of how the state money is being abused. We have a situation that Obradovic, on behalf of the Dvori movement, only made 501 thousand dinars last February. So more than 500 thousand dinars he spent in a bar. It wasn't being saved, so it was drunk among other things as much as 91 glasses of Chardonna wine, over 1200 bottles of beer, so he beat Kena by the number of drunk beer, even though it's hard. Then, 53 Blue Laguna cocktails, 64 Mai Tai cocktails, 163 bottles of water, 297 Cokes, 43 Red Bulls, and a bottle of whiskey Balantaj, Jack Daniels and so on. Bosko Obradovic's party is not being thrown into Belgrade alone, so he spent 93 thousand dinars on four barrels of beer, over a hundred sodas and equally ungained, then 24 energy drinks, six bottles of brandy, several kinds of whiskey, and so on. So he gets money from the state for the election campaign and then spends that money at the bar. Spend it buying some suits, so I don't know, we got three jackets here, two pants, one coat and so on. That all cost 109 thousand dinars. I ask the question what kind of jacket is 109,000 dinars? We wear a jacket of domestic production with some moderate price, so we don't pay a jacket of 109 thousand dinars. The list of costs covered by the Dvora includes legal services paid for by as many as 700 thousand dinars in 2017. So, can you imagine the chairman, I'm finishing up, so you can just spend money if you're in power, God forbid.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49590	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16, against—there is no one among the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bosko Obradovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances related to the work of the RTS, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs, members of the Serbian Parliamental Group of the Dveri Movement. The word is Bosko Obradović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49591	Thank you, Chairman. I am pleased that Serbian citizens have the opportunity, I hope they have the opportunity to see the ruling majority reject more than 140 proposals to supplement the opposition's agenda, but believe or do not refuse to put on the agenda and their own proposals, as was this proposal to examine Dveri's financial operations. We in the Dvori vote to examine the financial business of Dveri. It's a genius thing and it's talking about... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49592	You're talking about your proposal, Mr. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49593	What do you say, Mr. Chairman, you're the new chairman, I didn't notice that in the meantime you were replaced, there was someone else when I started talking, and now I see you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49594	I told my colleague, Obradovic, you're talking about your proposal to expand the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49595	We propose another survey board of the most likely importance and interest of the Serbian citizens, which is the operation of RTS as TV Bastille SNS and TV, i.e. a public media service that is paid by all Serbian citizens, which serves only the interests of the authorities. So, the time has come to ask us why we pay RTS and why RTS is asking for an increase from 150 to 220 dinars so that Aleksandar Vukic will visit an hour and a half every evening without ever having one direct television duel and without any serious question or answer to a serious affair that is open to SNS. So why does Radio Television of Serbia, as a public media service, not allow debates? Why does no one in the opposition have a chance to respond to what we have been called by the current government? When, for example, are we going to be able to visit for an hour and a half, like Alexander Vukic last night in "The Eye", and respond to all the names of the opposition leaders that could be heard there? One of the very important things that this survey board could determine - is Alexander Vukic ever a man of his word, is he able to tell the truth? Here, he said again last night that he was ready to face the opposition leaders directly and particularly apostrophe of the parliamentary opposition. Here, I answered today. Here, I answer Alexander Vukic's call -- I'm ready to go out on a direct television duel and I call on RTS to have one such duel organize or is this going to be another one of the 1500 so far recorded false promises by Alexander Vukic in six years' power? So, how is it possible that RTS, which we all pay, only conveys what the government says and does not allow the opposition to hear the voice, even though citizens who support the opposition pay the TV subscription? Remember, those who run RTS and us and all those who are for opposition and against these authorities pay a TV subscription and want to see their representatives on RTS and hear the voice of the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49596	You're bringing the end, colleague Obradovic. You just said all that in direct transmission through RTS. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the Protection of Serbs in Dispersion and the region. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49597	As I have already said, and I will repeat, there are topics that I should be about, regardless of our division of power and opposition here, to reach consensus and to act together. One such issue is doubtless a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the Protection of Serbs in Dispersion and the region. I want to remind you that one of the first decisions when the SNS came to power was to break up the Ministry of Serbs in the region and the diaspora. After that, the Office for Serbs was formed in the region and the diaspora of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it was abolished, so that today there would be a Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Serbs in the region and dissipation, which otherwise does nothing, which has not been able to elect a director for three years and which, in fact, does not perform its basic function. That is why we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia give a new dynamic to relations with Serbs in the region and dissipation and that it practically participates in creating a relationship between the Serbian state and all the countries of the former Yugoslav republics that have a disastrous relationship with Serbs, Serb national communities and the Serb national minorities living in them. So we insist on protecting our countrymen's personal and collective rights. We ask them to be able to preserve religious, national and cultural identity, as is the case with national minorities in Serbia. We also ask that the world's public get acquainted with the genocide committed against Serbs in the 20th century. We are looking for our cultural and educational integration in the Balkans. We are looking for cultural information centres of the Serb people in the Balkans. We also ask that all refugees, exiled, displaced, be helped to address the problems of citizenship, electoral rights, restitution, opening archives and secret files and all that is important to the Serbian people. We are also asking that the state of Serbia invests through a special fund in the region and in dissipation, to help and support the return and involvement of Serbs from the secluding to the life of the queen and to create conditions for them to invest here and at least have the kind of treatment that foreign investors in Serbia have. We are looking, of course, for support for Serbian key institutions in the division and in the region, and we are looking for additional Serbian language schools, looking for a eased voter right for Serbs living outside Serbia. We ask that both existing and new institutions be formed and strengthened, such as the Serb assembly in the region and the dissipation, which has also been abolished since the SNS came to power. In one word, we ask that we are seriously involved in the role of the queen of all Serbs living outside Serbia, and it is obvious that the SNS has ignored this role and the task and in this sense cannot be called a state-of-the-art party, but obviously a party that cares exclusively about personal and party interests, rather than Serbs in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49598	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Here you go. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. (Bosko Obradovic: I asked for a word. Well, you haven't answered. (Bosko Obradovic: You shut me down. I've just turned you off. No one voted, and I find that no proposal has been accepted. (Bosko Obradovic: How can you do this? Are you arguing with me? I don't have a fight. (Bosko Obradovic: I don't understand why you are doing this? We sit around all day waiting for seven hours to get a word and talk for three minutes. You can't wait. What can I wait for? Get by in the peppers or what? (Bosko Obradovic: I don't understand what the problem is? I don't understand what the problem is either, but don't show your nature. Be a lamb in the wolf's skin for a little while. Can I keep working? (Bosko Obradovic: We sit for seven hours all day and wait. Well, it's your duty to work. (Bosko Obradovic: I asked for a word, and you won't give it to me. All right, will you keep harassing me or can I work? (Bosko Obradovic: I harass you, and you don't give me a word? ) National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the effect of subsidising foreign enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49599	Dear Chairman, I can't believe you didn't let me explain the motion for a resolution on NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II? What was the issue, I don't know, but you know it. Here, now let me turn to this topic. We have proposed that a survey committee be set up to examine one of the biggest fams, not to tell lies or mysteries, current authorities, and these are foreign investors. Since you claim that foreign investors are Serbia's saviors, that they bring only improvement and prosperity to the Serbian people, here, we propose that one survey committee be formed to determine whether it is true, so let's see how much total funds they have received for these six years from your government's budget of the Serbian state, because what does your financial business look like? On the one hand, you rob your own people, reduce wages and pensions, raise taxes, taxes and excise taxes, raise your property tax, increase the price of fuel, and then take your own people to foreign companies that come to Serbia and claim that's still good for us and our economy. Let's see how much money you've given to foreign companies in six years' time, and how much domestic, domestic economy and agriculture. Let's see a list of all these companies and have they all hired as many workers as they promised. Let's see how many of them show their business in Serbia with a loss and bring profits abroad to false accounting accounts so they don't pay taxes on profits achieved in Serbia. Let's look into it and see what your foreign investors are doing. Let's see what the number of new employees are in these companies, what their average incomes are in these companies, and see what the range of these financial incentives in the environments look like, see if the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia is equally supported. So, the key question of all the questions is: will what happened in Smederevo happen to us when a large German company fled Serbia after two years, nailed its hall, which was otherwise built by Smederevo city for 300 million dinars that it took on loans, where 300 workers were promised, and employed by barely 60, at the end of the day, worked 25, and then 25 were notified through the Viber Group that the German company would no longer work, all the equipment packed and exported, and they were left on the street after two years of funding and subsidisation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Don't forget this German company in Smederev, it personally opened Alexander Vukic and handed them the keys, and today it doesn't have to visit these 25 workers and see how they live, left by this German company that was given our money from our budget, robbed by our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49600	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The MP Obradovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify facts related to the privatisation of the spas, sources of drinking water and property of the PIO Fund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49601	Another survey committee proposing the Dveri parliamentary group to determine the circumstances of the sale of our natural and economic resources in the first place. Here's no matter what government, whether present or previous, let's see how our natural and economic resources have been sold out. It's very simple. If you have nothing to hide as current authority, you will support the formation of one such survey board, so let's see how our mining resources have been sold are the RTB Bor case, how our agricultural land has been sold in the case of the PKK, let's see how our river flows have been sold in the case of some famous investors of the mini hydrocentral or, say, the sale of a source of clean drinking water. So, you're the first power in history, and you like to be the first in history, especially Alexander Vukic likes to be the first in history, and he really is the first in history to sell mineral wealth, sources of clean drinking water, river streams and agricultural land. That's what no one's ever done before, or if he's worked, let's work together to determine who he is and when he's sold out our natural and economic wealth. A special topic is the property of the PIO Fund. The court cases have already repeatedly found that you cannot dispose of the property of the PIO fund and sell it out, and above all I mean the medicinal spas in Serbia. It's the property of the PIO Fund, which the PIO Fund built in its time, made and has to be available and whose profit should actually be poured into the PIO Fund. There is no right for the government of the Republic of Serbia to kidnap the property of the PIO Fund and to offer it at some privatisation. All of this could be the subject of this committee of inquiry. After all, here we find that the PIO Fund has filled citizens of the Republic of Serbia with payments to the Fund, that citizens are nominal owners of the Fund, in whose interest the ownership of the PIO Fund has been carried out. So it is impossible for one PUPS or one SNS to own the PIO Fund or manage anything owned by Serbian citizens or alienated and privatised. In this regard, it is very important that one survey committee prove and demonstrate what is happening to Serbia's natural and economic wealth. Is, for example, one Belgrade Airport or Nis Airport one of our natural and economic wealth, is that to be privatized? Is that supposed to come into the possession of strangers? In Serbia, after your sale in our possession, there is currently only the Commercial Bank and you want to privatise it at the end of the EPS and Telekom. When you finally sell EPS and Telekom, nothing in Serbia will be owned by this people and we will all become slaves to a foreign boss, a cheap workforce with your friends and foreign companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49602	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour. No proposal accepted. Prof. Marko Atlagic's MP suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's survey committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49603	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, just these past few minutes I have received text messages and citizens are asking me why Mr. Bosko Obradovic is constantly making the untruths in this high house, I quote - a bang like Maxim by division. My answer is: he is a professor of Serbian language, invented the eighth fall of "stupid". Let's move on. A Bulgarian extremist party called "Ataka" wants to kidnap part of the Republic of Serbia and attach it to Bulgaria. The Bulgarian extremist Ataka party filed a request to the Bulgarian parliament four years ago for Bulgaria in exchange for support of Euro-Atlantic integration to Serbia to win the area around Bosilegrad, Dimitrovgrad and Strumica. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the extremist Bulgarian party was welcomed by Bosko Obradovic, leader of the Serbian Dvora Movement and co-ordinator of the alliance for the second robbery of the Republic of Serbia. It may not be surprising that Bosko Obradovic hosted Bulgaria's extremist Ataka party, which wants to kidnap the eastern part of our country, if it is known that Bosko Obradovic and his Dvori are the continuation of L Jotic's fascist policies. Such a policy of fascism has left Serbs as few people in Europe. Ljoticevics, whose policy he advocated and advocated Bosko Obradovic, participated together with the Germans in the shooting of Kragujevac citizens, and especially in shooting students of the Kragujevac High School. So Bosko Obradovic hosts the Ataka delegation at the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which parts of the Republic of Serbia around Dimitrovgrad, Bosilegrad considers its western Bulgarian province. The question arises whether Honorable MP Bosko Obradovic came down from his mind when he hosted the Bulgarian extremist organisation "Ataka" that advocates joining the eastern part of the Republic of Serbia? Bosko Obradovic hosted Ivan Pernar, a representative in the Croatian Parliament who said that Serbs, I quote -- a genocide nation and that Serbs from Republika Srpska were not expelled, but that they left themselves. It's a finished quote. Nenad Canak called on the president of the European Integration Committee to attend an international meeting in this high-level home of representatives of Catalonia and Pristina. The Honorable National Assembly President, Maja Gojkovic, has prevented this from happening, otherwise there would be a scandal of unprecedented proportions. That's why I think... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49604	Thanks, time. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: four MPs voted for it. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49605	Dear citizens of Serbia, without any comment from me, I will just read the proposal of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia, which was proposed by the Dveri parliamentary group, and the citizens themselves will best assess why the ruling majority is not ready to place one of these declarations on the agenda. Point 1. – a family founded in the marriage community of men and women is a natural and basic unit of society, older than any ideology, religion and state arrangement and as such has the right to protect the state and society. Point 2. – the family is the most valuable resource of the Republic of Serbia and the natural environment in which children are born, raised and raised. As such, the family is a guarantee of national survival, a fundamental economic unit and a community without which there is no sustainable development and progress of society and state, where the population represents the greatest danger to the long-term survival of the people and the state, the priority of the work of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore it must be a systematic and comprehensive solution to this problem through the implementation of reproductive and innovative opportunities. The state will protect the institutions of marriage and family with a comprehensive reproductive policy. The family policy should be separate from social policy. The state will encourage married couples to have a greater number of children, the commitment of married couples to the creation of a decades - old family should not be a reason for family poverty. The state will use direct and indirect financial assistance measures, tax reforms, the creation of measures to recognise parenting as an occupation, measures that will make it easier to obtain a family home and develop family education and culture. The priority in planning the Republic of Serbia's budget will be to provide assistance and support to the family. The state will support companies and companies that will apply reproductive principles in their business. The state will stimulate media content that promotes the values of family life and parenting and at the same time regulate media content that is contrary to the traditional family values of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The state will promote educational-experienced programmes that respect traditional, cultural, ethnic, religious values of Serbian citizens who are in close relations with family values, respecting the fundamental right of parents to decide on the education and education of their children. And, below 10, in order to achieve the long-term achievement of family protection in Serbia, it is necessary to place this issue in the Serbian Constitution, form a family ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia and introduce an institution of family protectors. Believe it or not, the honourable MPs of the ruling majority and the Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Zlatibor Loncar, gave a positive assessment of this proposal for a declaration of family protection and I don't see why you would not support it if this declaration were on the agenda and we all stood behind protection together.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49606	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the work of REM in the course of election campaigns 2014, 2016, 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49607	The MP group of the Serbian Dvori movement believes that one of the worst, most unskilled, most inconclusive and, how can I express myself, the most catastrophic independent regulatory bodies we have in this country is undoubtedly REM, or the Republic Agency for Electronic Media. We believe that the last moment has come to form a committee of inquiry and to determine what this REM is doing in the first place. We are looking here to examine whether REM has ever conducted monitoring of the media and supervision of the application of the Media Service Providers Regulation during the election campaign in the 2014-2018 election campaigns. The Republic Agency for Electronic Media is the only regulatory body in Serbia in charge of such supervision, which means for the work of the media in general, and is very important for the functioning of democratic processes and for the security of democratic conditions in election campaigns and without its supervision, it is practically possible that the ruling click on the government has 99% of the time on the media, and the entire opposition together to have 1% of the time on the media, both outside the election campaign and during the election campaign. So, the amazing thing is that we have one regulatory body that doesn't do its job, and it gets paid. It's amazing that on all the major media in Serbia, six major televisions with national frequencies, six daily newspapers with the largest circulation, you can only see power and never, not a word of opposition. How is it possible that the great media can attack, slander and lie for 24 hours a day about the leaders of the opposition and that the same appointed leaders of the opposition can absolutely not appear anywhere and that the other side can be heard? What is particularly painful and most important is that REM, as I say, allows, or suffers, or does not sanction the scandalous behaviour of certain television broadcasters who through reality shows promote both spine and ham and all kinds of prostitution and violence and insult everything that our traditional values are. It is amazing that REM has not yet taken away the national frequency of Pink TV. It is amazing that REM has not yet banned reality shows in Serbia, although Culture Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic had some ideas in this direction, but was immediately joined by other ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all by the defence ministers and interior ministers, who are obviously ready to defend "Pink" tanks, because "Pink" is the heart of the system of current SNS and Alexander Vukic. You will be ready to betray Kosovo, but you will never issue "Pink". You're "Pink" the last line of defense. It is therefore important that we examine what this REM is doing and why Zeljko Mitrovica is not still in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49608	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49609	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, when you passed the Anti-discrimination Act, you didn't think about protecting certain social categories from discrimination, you could discriminate against someone else. We wanted these amendments to the current Law on Prohibition of Discrimination to precisely specify what this discrimination means, to whom it applies, and to pay much more attention, to, say, children, persons with disabilities or other truly endangered categories of population in our country, not to some imaginary categories of population who seek bread through cakes and who seek some fictitious human rights that never existed. It is our obligation to protect especially parents from discrimination, because existing anti-discrimination laws try to limit the ability of parents to raise their own children, I primarily think of religious parents and parents who believe that their children should be brought up as taught by traditional religious communities in Serbia. Not only do I think of Orthodoxism, but also other traditional religious communities in Serbia, who want to raise their children traditionally and as our faith teaches them. So, the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination raises, let me say, whether we as parents have the right to raise our children, whether we as parents have the right to teach them what our faith teaches, the example of doing, about promoting homosexualism or about such fertilizations, which there is no doubt that they now impose themselves as something normal, modern, modern, modern, what we need to learn, what we need to get into our textbooks, into our laws, on our media and impose on our children. In fact, in one of the proposals for amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, we clearly ask that the ban on promotion of homosexualism to minors and the exposure of children to content that is not suitable for their age. In fact, we only prohibit the promotion of homosexualism in public in accordance with Article. 43, 64, 65. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I've already said and I'll repeat, everyone has the right to their own personal commitment, including sexual commitment, but there's no right to promote homosexuality and to impose it on our children, nor can we be punished by any law against discrimination because we promote the teaching of our faith and because we express our position, let's say, which is against the promotion of homosexuality by minors. So the time has come to really see what discrimination is and what is not discrimination. It is not discrimination when we speak what we think and what our faith teaches us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49610	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 4 MPs. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process, from the day of the call of the republic's elections to the day of publication of the final results of the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49611	Thank you. Here's a subject that's hard to say why you're avoiding putting it on the agenda. When, immediately after the 2016 elections, Aleksandar Martinovic, president of the SNS parliamentary group, asked for a survey committee to be formed and to determine what really happened in the 2016 elections. Well, here we are, and so are we looking for what the president of the SNS parliamentary group is asking, to determine what really happened in the 2016 elections, and who was the one who ordered the director of the Statistical Institute of Serbia, Miladin Kovacevic, to steal votes, to steal elections, and to set up that statistical nebulosis that Dveri remained below the censorship, beware, not by one vote, not by 1%, not by 0.01%, not even by one single vote, but by 0.75 of one vote. It was installed by a legendary gentleman who led the Statistical Institute and who, by order of the SNS, had an obligation to count below 1% of the vote for four days to prove that the Dvori coalition Dveri-DSS was below the censorship. The idea of how difficult it was for the ruling SNS not to allow the Court to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that they counted four days to set the Dvori below the censorship, so they failed. If there is something controversial, which you are not going to vote now, to create a survey board and to examine who stole from the 2016 elections, to examine what Miladin Kovacevic was doing in RIK and whose order he was doing, because we know what Alexander Vukic publicly promised the Twoers several months ago when he said Dvori would never enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia again. Imagine the president of the state who promises to a member of parliament that she will never enter this House again. What does that mean? That you're going to steal the election again? That you will again, as in 2016, send Miladin Kovacevic to set up election results and count 1% of the election material for four days? If I'm wrong about something, if I'm wrong, why don't you vote for your own proposal, which he suggested in his own time, Alexander Martinovic, to examine what happened in the 2016 parliamentary elections, because you're hiding something, because you don't let the public know that you stole the elections, because you don't let it be seen how you control the media, how you buy votes, how you threaten people to lose their jobs if they don't vote for you, how you send your beatings around local elections in Serbia, and now in Dragačev, where hundreds of progressors are housed at the hotel.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49612	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – four. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision to educate the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the non-intentional spending of funds allocated to the pre-election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before me spoke the left hand of the Bosko. It's the one who swore in Hilandar on the three-year-old icon that he wouldn't make a party, took 5,000 euros, cheated Hilandar, cheated on the priests and founded the party. Ladies and gentlemen, that's Bosko left-handed. Today, he is a member of the Mutibaric alliance, cheater, peljesanovic and Ljotic. He talked about everything today. He was talking about the robbery, talking about the abuses. If someone who has 100,000 dinars pay, if someone who is well placed, if someone from an election campaign buys a suit and pays it 103,000 dinars, I have to tell him - Mr. Obradovic, you've joined the company of thieves and cheaters with good recommendations, it's no good for you, not a man by suit, but by work. You and Mr. Gilas will be appreciated on Sunday. You are the domestic servant of Dragan Gilas, the one who earned 500m euros while in public office. The same Gilas, and I will now tell you, who at Jennifer Brass says this, the depeša, listen carefully, openly, Jennifer Brass praised Gilas as a reliable associate in reducing Russian influence in Serbia, where Dragan Gilas said he particularly did not tolerate the Ambassador Konuzin at the time and also said Jennifer Brass is a reliable protector of the announced homosexual parade. So nothing sacred is to Mr. Obradovic. Nothing sacred to him until Scott, Gilas, the School, so they threw him in. He's talking about the election results, so you went through the reelections. If the SNS had followed the rules and didn't respect Scott, he should have accepted the results in trouble spots, radicals know, zero, everything should have been zero, and your party was supposed to be below the censorship. You jumped off the balcony. You committed violence. You turned your hand to the RIK. You came across Scott to this assembly. You teamed up with these. You have teamed up with Aleksandra Jerkov, who says that the celebration of 100 years of unification of Srema, Banat and Backa and Baranja is a fake, that those who come to Novi Sad do not have the right to come and bow down to their king's unification. You're with them. You're just like them, and that's why the board of inquiry needs to examine all your malfeasances with the resources that the prosecution is dealing with.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49614	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 21. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Miladin Ševarlic, Star project and unintended spending of funds of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49615	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the title of this proposal shows the need to educate a polling committee that would determine all the circumstances and facts that led to the non-purpose spending in the pre-election campaign, and Mr. Ševarlic is an MP who was elected on the DSS-Dveri list. Again, like before, it comes to the fact that wherever the Dwarves are at stake, we have unintentional spending, abuse of budget spending. I have to remind the public that Bosko Obradovic, the leader of this fake Patriotic Dvora movement, spent state money on various parties, parties in Belgrade, parties in Cačka, at expensive restaurants, where they poured liters and liters of alcohol the most diverse, and we will give only one example. So, in a capital club in February 2017, he made a price of as many as 500 thousand dinars. Five hundred thousand dinars spent on alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks, so we have 91 glasses of Chardonna wine, over 1,200 bottles of beer, 53 cocktails of Blue lagoon, 64 cocktails of Mai Tai, 163 bottles of water, 297 Cokes, 43 bottles of Red Bull, and a bottle of Balantines, a bottle of Jack Daniels, as well as hundreds of other types of wine, juices and alcoholics. So he gets the money to run an election campaign, and then he spends it at parties and drinking. The other part of the money was spent on shopping, so three jackets, two pants and one coat paid 109,000 dinars. State money that was identified for conducting an election campaign spent on jackets, pants. It's the style of that fake Patriotic Dwri organization, and it's not the first time. Let's remember that Dragan Gilas financed him for years, while he was mayor of Belgrade, and when they played some kind of right-wing organisation. Let's just remember how the Davers funded themselves for years in Colubara, in the years when Kolubara was one of the biggest losers, when she recorded huge losses, they only got 4.2 million dinars in one year, and at the time when the DSS led Kolubara. Let's remember how the Indji municipality financed him, and when they had that contract with Ninamedia. So that's his letter today at his MP's club. So Goran Jesic financed them for years. This is what I'm saying, because the Dvors don't choose the boss. The Dvori work for whoever pays them, it was Dragan Gilas, it was DS, today it's Dragan Gilas again. So whoever pays them, they're everywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49616	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 14. No proposal accepted. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the work of RTV.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49617	Respected citizens of Serbia, TV as a public media service acts the same as RTS, i.e. Infringement of the laws on electronic media and on public media services and practically on its programmes in 99% shows exclusively the government's activities, and perhaps in 1% of the opposition's activities. That is why it is necessary to form one survey committee to determine why we are paying these subscriptions in the first place and why are we paying additional funds from the budget to these public media services when they are not doing their job and when they are the ordinary propaganda votes of the authorities? In fact, if these public media services were really doing their job, then all of us who are so unfeelingly called by a representative of the government, I guess one day we'd get a chance to respond to all these attacks. Look what's interesting. We from the opposition vote to make survey committees, to examine everything you say about us, and you don't vote for your own proposals, and you don't want to examine what you're saying about us because you know it's all a lie. It's a lie that we robbed Hilandar, because the iguman Hilandara receives us every year, at least three times, and we've been happily seen guests of all the monks in Hilandara. It's a lie that we beat up women because it never happened anywhere. It's a lie that we've paid some things, I don't know from an election campaign for something that's inappropriate, so you're saying different numbers yourself, and here in two exposures, you're giving out completely different data and it talks so much about how true it is. So it's amazing how many lies you're willing to make about the opposition without ever letting the opposition give their opinion...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49618	I'm asking you about the Duke's Radio Television.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49619	That's right, TV should also do its job as well as RTS, so let's find out for example. as Zoran Milojevic Zelja kidnapped the opposition in the local elections in Vrbas, beating them up, as he is today in the local elections in the municipality of Luciani. So it's impossible that RTV won't report the news that he's been beaten brutally, physically, and that one of the leaders of the opposition, Borko Stefanovic, has been attempted. Is it normal not to report the news on TV? Is it normal not to make a special show about it? Is it normal not to invite the one who's beaten up to ask for an opinion? So, what's this about? It is media darkness, media censorship, and Serbian citizens are practically looking to finance media darkness and finance the media censorship performed by both RTS and RTS. So it is necessary that we examine their business and that the citizens of Serbia know what they are paying for, and not as now that we are asked for an increase in subscription and a new entry into the pockets of Serbian citizens, in order to finance Aleksandar Vukic every night on RTS and RTS, so you will allow, it is not normal and it does not make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49620	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Yeah, you're the only one putting pressure on the press right now that they're doing the shows you're ordering. It doesn't make sense, after writing a report from Europe about us to put pressure on, and you do. Finalising vote: for – 4 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The MP Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to identify facts and circumstances related to affairs related to Maria Janjusevic and a link with secret societies. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49621	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you all remember this court servant, Dragan Gilas, named Bosko Obradovic. You all remember how much he condemned the Masons during the government's election and said there were two Masons in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if it's good or bad, that secret society. It may be bad, it may be good, but Bosko Obradovic claimed it was very bad. Then it turned out that all along on his right is Marija Janjusevic, the great master of women's masseuse in Serbia, third-degree master and the president of the court honours the big women's lodge in Serbia. It speaks enough of the credibility of Boška Obradovic, who is used to it, I admit that I am not used to it at all, which the class spoke to one another. Like this, he just mentioned some violence against Borko Stefanovic. We condemned it, the perpetrators were caught, but Bosko Obradovic has no power to ask Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Stefanovic who killed two guard soldiers? Who killed them on Topcider in 2004? Was there a Vuk Jeremic in Boris Tadic's cabinet? Is it true that two guards were killed in Karash because of their one-and-a-half-tonne drug charges? To the shame and to Bosca Obradovic, who is with them, but also to the shame of Boris Tadic, Dragan Gilas, who presented young soldiers as murderers and suicides. There is no greater shame in the Orthodox world, and he advocates Orthodoxism, hangs with the Masons that the Serbian church has animated. We never know what Bosko Obradovic is for. It's time for one thing. It's time for another. He sits with Borko Stefanovic, who told the US Embassy, as he is close to President Tadic, said that -- the president's 2008 re-election is critical for achieving the DS goal, establishing a strong link between the US and Serbia. In that sense, Stefanovic persistently asked the United States, a beacon of freedom, to postpone Kosovo's recognition until the end of the presidential runoff. The delay in Kosovo's declaration would allow Tadic to avoid defeat. That's why Kosovo is independent today, they haven't even frowned. They didn't even frown, and you ran off to the Chacha library, you weren't a minor. Boris Tadic fled to Romania, and you sat as a bookworm in the Chacan library all the time, and you care about Kosovo. So you sit with the traitors of Kosovo, you sit with those who have created a border on Jarinj and Brnjak, between Serbs and Serbs. That's why we need to set up a survey board, examine all the secret societies you're hanging out with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49622	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 17 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs of Mary Janjusevic and the link with secret societies. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49623	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the aim of the poll committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would be to establish all facts and all circumstances related to the affair of the honourable MP, Maria Janjusevic, and her connection with the Masany. Namely, Marija Janjusevic is a high-ranking massa member, with a third-degree master's rank. There are 21 members of the rank in the Republic of Serbia. It was founded and managed by the Ark of the Knjignja Milica and has the rank of officers in the Grand Lodge of Serbia and is the President of the Court of Honor of the Great Women's Lodge of Serbia. The head of the masseary in the Republic of Serbia is Mr. Takir Hasanovic, who is associated with the English service of MI6, whose agent he is. Some consider the honourable MP Marija Janjusevic to be related to MI6. What is not good, which is that MP Marija Janjusevic provided insight into the media base "Nina" media for the purposes of the masseuse, so that the Masons had insight into the services of the ministries of the Republic of Serbia, the state authorities, the authorities of local self-government, public enterprises, embassies, private companies and political decisions of the Dvera movement and other organisations. If the Dvori are represented as a Christian movement and are called to Christianity, and in the copy Maria Janjušević is spoken of as masseous rituals which include masseous sacred regalia, mortuary skulls, ritual swords that are pecked in rituals at the reception of new members for whom the honourable MP Marija Janjušević was in charge. Therefore, it is extremely important for the presidents of the National Assembly to establish this polling committee, to establish with which intelligence services, through the Masinery Maria Janjusevic has ties, and she and Bosko Obradovic are said to have entered this high house on the proposal of intelligence English service to influence this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49624	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Final vote: five. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Bosko Obradovic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation of Study B.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49625	Thank you. That's right, we need a survey board to determine who privatized Studio B, who bought it and who put it into operation 24 hours a day to promote Alexander Vukic and SNS. The Committee should examine the following things: how and under what circumstances has the privatisation of Study B been carried out? Is it in line with the law of privatization of enterprises that have not solved property relations, because no judicial dispute has yet been completed by shareholders, who bought 80% of Studies B through shares on 28 February 1992, and who, after the annulment of the resolution and return of Study B to the City Assembly, have not returned the capital? The facts regarding the aforementioned court procedure and whether the new owner of Studio B, "Max Media" respects contractual obligations, and whether Studio B will be the one who gets this remaining national frequency, so SNS will round up to control all televisions with national frequencies and 24 hours a day, through reality shows, past reality shows can promote Alexander Vukić on "Pinku", as well as "Hepija", but here soon, and at Study B, if it is true that Studio B will get the rest of the national frequency. Here's a very important question, so if this is how the current government treats the media, to shut down those who think differently, and to buy and put into function classical regime propaganda, the rest of the media, there can be one democracy, freedom of mind, debate, exchange of thoughts and the conflict of power and opposition? You want to give me an example of the last time anyone from the opposition has been visiting Studio B in the past few years? There's no such thing as a case. Never and no one from the opposition in recent years has visited Studio B, because simply Studio B only the SNS flesh committee, which 24 hours a day promotes Alexander Vukic and spits on Vucic's opposition from the opposition without ever giving them a chance to say something in their defense. Look, this kind of propaganda, it's something that is truly unimaginable and unremarkable in this restored, multiparty system that you have television like Studio B, which 24 hours a day insults political opponents of power, lies and slandering opposition leaders and celebrates the greatest son of all our peoples and the nationalities of Alexander Vukic. So let's see who it is and how it privatized Studio B, see who it is and how it's run it now, see if it's all by law, or if it's another robbery privatisation, after other robbery privatisations that people close to the SNS are behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49626	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: for -three. Ambassador Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the bankruptcy affair related to former Economy Minister Sasa Radulovic. You want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49627	Thank you, Chairman. Sasa Radulovic is one of the former partners of the previous speaker Boška Obradovic. You know, he never knows, he changes those partners politically, what the people would say, like socks. But when it comes to Study B, I have to admit that I personally watched several times, a previous speaker, visiting Study B in a campaign for the Belgrade elections. I've watched him go there a couple of times and talk about some nonsense. But let him ask his current boss best, ask Gilas for Studio B, he's his real address. Ask Gilas, he'll tell you everything, he knows everything about Studio B. When Gilas was mayor no one, absolutely no one from SNS, not a second, was allowed to be at Study B, it was an absolute ban, not a single SNS was allowed to host. Let's get back to the theme of funding the Dvora, so what I didn't say earlier, there's the diaspora ministry. In 2009, the diaspora ministry gave 300,000 dinars to the fake Patriotic organisation Dveri. In 2008, the U.S. The Ministry of Faith has paid 400,000 dinars to the fake Patriotic organization of Dvori. Then in 2008, we have the Diaspora Ministry again, the same 300,000 dinars. A total of millions of dinars were received from the Ministry of Diaspora and the Ministry of Faith during one year for their work. We have foreign sponsors, watch out now, Drago Kovacevic says – The Dvori were at a political gathering in Moldova together with Zeljko Markic of the Croatian organisation "In the Name of the Family". The Zeljka Markic is otherwise known as someone who advocates banning Serbs in Croatia from even voting on the government's election and budgeting. Now, with such Dvori, they are happy to work together, travel in the white world together, participate in all kinds of seminars and organizations. It's very easy to find common language, and there's probably some money, probably some money from them too. When it comes to violence and how Bosko Obradovic does not attack women. Here, I will list four examples, Gordana Zelec, Mara Dragovic as journalist "Pinka", Maja Pejcic in RIK, Maja Gojkovic as president of the Assembly and here in the National Assembly. So four cases, four attacks on women. Wherever Bosko appears, there's violence, and today he accuses us of some kind of violence, and he's never heard from the murder of Ranko Panic, who was killed by those of his men with whom he's in power today. They killed him. The same ones who today threaten to hang, rape and murder both the prime minister and the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49628	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The MP Obradovic suggested that the agenda be supplemented by the points – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the correctness of foreign vaccines.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49629	Honorable citizens of Serbia, on behalf of all those concerned parents who justifiably, I would say, express their concern about what vaccines their children are vaccinated with, we have proposed the formation of a survey board to determine the correctness of foreign vaccines. So, we're not saying anything in advance. All we're asking is for the correctness of foreign vaccines to be examined. Why are we looking for this? Because parents are worried. They weren't worried when we had our own vaccines, while our Torak Institute worked, no one suspected, and everyone vaccinated their children, and we were all vaccinated as children against infectious diseases. From now on, how come parents suddenly have so many doubts about their children's vaccinations? Because we don't have any more homemade vaccines, because foreign vaccines are being imported and we're not sure about the correctness of these foreign vaccines. That's why we're looking for a survey board, and here's what it would be like to be the task of that survey board. The task of the survey committee is to look at the facts related to the work of the Institute of Virology, Vaccines and serum “Torak” and the correctness of foreign vaccines and determines the following: where do foreign vaccines come from? What guarantees are their regularity and in what quantities have they been obtained from 2012 to today? Is the Institute for Virology, Vaccines and Serums “Torlak” controlling and establishing the correctness of vaccines by a foreign producer, used for compulsory immunisation of children, under the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases? Is there a reference laboratory under the Institute of Virology, Vaccine and Serum “Torak”, which examines samples of import vaccines for the immunisation of children? For what reasons does the Institute of Virology, Vaccine and Serum "Torlak", whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not produce all vaccines intended for the immunisation of children, but rely mainly on imported vaccines from a foreign producer? In the end, what is the real danger of spreading infectious diseases against which children are vaccinated, since from year to year the number of vaccines and the types of infectious diseases that these vaccines should prevent is increasing? So I think there's justifiable concern about parents who are concerned, what's standing and what's the correctness of foreign vaccines. To make a lot of changes, if "Torak" were to return to production of domestic vaccines or even if it had a reference laboratory for detection, let me say, and to check the correctness of foreign vaccines. So we're not against the vaccination of our children, it's one civilization medical fluid, but we have the right to suspect what is the correctness of foreign vaccines and whether these producers give one vaccine to their children abroad, and other vaccines to our children here in Serbia. We have reasonable doubts, and we believe that the only cure for this problem... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49630	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: four MPs voted in favour. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and "Storm". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49631	In March 2014, the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MP, Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, told a daily newspaper that, I quote: "Self was a genocide crime, not a humanitarian action, such as "Storm". “ A quote has been completed. This shocked not only most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also the broad scientific public, as Dr. Sanda Raskovic is a doctor of science and university professor. It is obvious that this statement wanted to rock the Serbian people, but that the statement may have been made out of ignorance. The honourable MP should know, since it is a university professor, to declare a crime a genocide, it must meet three basic conditions. First, there must be one special purpose, “dolus specialis”. Secondly, it is necessary to prove the preparatory measures, cultural genocide, the destruction of the church, mosque, synagogue, language, letters, etc. and a plan to carry out the action itself. I have to say that Srebrenica didn't have those elements, especially Srebrenica didn't have one intention. There's little time to discuss it here right now, because it's not even a court, it's a matter of science. It is a crime to state that "Storm" was a humanitarian action. The Honorable professor of philosophy, Dr. Zarko Puhovski, who is otherwise a Croat, told the "Storm", quote - "Storm" was ethnic cleansing not only at the level of catastra, science and art, but at the level of toponymism and onomastics. No wonder the esteemed MP Dr. Raskovic Ivic speaks of "Storm" as a humanitarian organisation, if it is known that she has granted herself a fee of about a million dinars while being in the Vatican ambassador. She remained ambassador even after her party remained in power and this speaks of her morale in general, and as a MP, but also as women and as mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49632	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts relating to the beating of journalists on the day of the presidential oath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49633	Dear citizens of Serbia, so far the ruling majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has rejected 160 proposals for additional agenda points that have come from the opposition's ranks. In two and a half years, no opposition's single proposal has been accepted for any subject proposed by the opposition to be found on the agenda of the assembly session. It best speaks of this government's relationship to parliamentary debate. I have one more item on the agenda to suggest. Namely, the poll committee that would examine what really happened on the day of the presidential oath, Alexander Vukic, here, in front of the House of the National Assembly, that there was a beating of journalists, who recorded all the cameras and all the cameras, and that really happened, unlike what Marijan Risticevic, Marko Atlagic or Aleksandar Markovic are saying here, who are not even allowed to vote for their own proposals to do something about the Twors that they have said. And those of us who are accused of their stories, we vote yes and say yes, let them examine all this, and they must not question it. That's interesting, and that says that everything they're saying is actually a simple lie, otherwise they'd vote for it to be examined. And we are not afraid, who we are accused of being questioned. I guess there's something wrong after all. It's also not right, of course, and when it comes to beating up journalists on the day of the presidential oath of Alexander Vukic and how the president's mandate began, and today, the Batinian Falang SNS are beating up citizens across Serbia... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49634	You can't talk like that. You can't insult the party one, the ruling party and those expressions to talk about the SNS. Do you know how to explain your proposal or just compete on how much insult you'll make in three minutes? (Bosko Obradovic: I have no right to speak? You have no right to insult. I'm sure you have no right to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49635	Thank you. So, was the fact that the party security of the SNS provided that event at the time of the presidential oath of Alexander Vukic? Yeah. Did the people who were in that party security beat up the press? Yeah. Did they record cameras and cameras bringing up harassing journalists and photographers from the event? Yeah. Does that mean the SNS is beating up citizens? Why don't you reveal the identity of these people who beat up Borko Stefanovic in Krusevec? [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49636	You're out of time. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. If anyone remembers what the proposal was. I conclude the vote: for - three Members of the Dvori. He didn't pass the proposal. Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former So Indija President Goran Jesic and the unintended spending of funds. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49637	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, among all the suspicious affairs of Mr Jesic in India is certainly one contract. It is a contract between the Indji municipality, while the president was Goran Jesic, and "Ninamedia clipping" companies, and at the head of the "Ninamedia clipping" is just a letter from Dveri, again Dveri, Marija Janjusevic. Here, we come up with one law. Wherever there is unintended spending of funds, wherever there is some kind of money, we immediately come to the fact that it is Dvori and Bosko Obradovic. I must say that before a certain time when the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering in the Regular Procedure controlled the financial operations of the fake Patriotic organisation Dveri, Bosko Obradovic immediately knocked out that it was a political attack, as it was an attack on him, he even called it some kind of coup on Dvera. Press conferences, he hit it right away. Here's what the state authorities found out. Here's what Bosko Obradovic didn't tell us. So the state authorities found very transparently that the Serbian Dvora Movement on behalf of some fictitious invoices of millions of dinars is paying certain companies in the name of goods and services. So there's a whole table view here, the whole scheme as it's organized. Then, these companies turn that money into cash, and then they return the money to Bosca Obradovic, and then we have that four million and 200 thousand were transferred from Dvora to the company "Mintel" from Borca, Verica Cvianovic is the owner. So then this Verica Cvianovic further through some transfers turned it into money, returned it to him, of course, that cash. Well, then we have March 23rd of the same year "Futskon" from Borca also, be careful now, the owner of Ivan Cvianovic, is not Verica, but Ivan Cvianovic, and then we have the company "Veloks" d.o.o. Belgrade, on 24 May 2017, has three and a half million dinars, and it is again Ivan Cvianovic, so it is one family, and after asking who these people are, they are all Dvori activists, they are candidates for the Dveri Councillors. That's how they do business. State money is being transferred to some suspicious companies, they turn it into cash, then Bosko Obradić gets back into cash, then Bosko Obradović throws parties, spends that money on drinks, parties, parties, clothes, coats, pants, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49638	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Srdjan Nogo suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process from the day of the presidential election to the day of publication of the provisional election results in the 99.9 polling stations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49639	After the 2017 presidential elections in Serbia, the largest demonstrations took place in Serbia in six years as far as the SNS authorities are concerned. Students and youth began those demonstrations, brought tens of thousands of citizens who went out to the streets of Belgrade day and walked the streets of the capital. All of this ended with a big rally led by the military-police union when tens of thousands of people came out, expressed their dissatisfaction and the power of the SNS and the authority of Alexander Vukic, as well as the overall state of the state, of the electoral system he faces. The whole election process was followed by a large number of suspicious actions. In the end, we filed criminal charges against Ana Brnabic because she was as the competent minister of state administration and local self-government illegally issued copies of the electoral lists, which no one had done before, that it is amazing that a woman does not know what she must do as a minister. We have generally accused, as well as the general public and the opposition, the SNS of malfeasance in these elections and that this victory is not pure, but that the thief is not congratulated on the theft. And, here, that's why we're here proposing the establishment of a committee of inquiry that should determine facts and circumstances. I call on the SNS that if it believes that the entire 2017 election result is clear that they approach the establishment of the polling committee, because they will certainly have a majority on the polling board and will simply be able to take off one serious finger of doubt, because do not forget that citizens have no confidence in politicians, both in power and opposition, but neither this electoral system. Forty percent of our people go to the polls. Thanks to the irregular voter list, manipulations come up to 50 percent because each government had about 900,000 people at its disposal, a phantom voter in the voter's list, so there are over a million and a half, but up to 900 thousand with which it can carry out electoral malversions. There are no clear elections in Serbia. There are no choices that were real and fair. Generally, there's never been much of an election solution here. If we want to restore faith in the political system, we need to establish this polling committee that will determine the real situation in the voter list, how many voters we have, which will determine why the laws and rules on media representation are not respected, so we have a situation that the ruling set can always be abused. This was done by these before you, you rightly admit it when you say that the government of the DS, who ruled before you, was doing the same thing with the media, but you're doing the same thing as they are. So in 2012, you got the support to break up this policy, and you're acting the same way or worse than those of your predecessors, who should also be questioned by financial malfeasances, because remember that six thousand citizens have paid the same amount of 40,000 dinars to Alexander Vukic where there are social cases. There are numerous abuses, and the survey board could determine the truth about that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49640	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs, and no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances relating to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there used to be a national representative of Pernar, he now has a grandson. The grandson is proud of his grandfather because his grandfather in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's parliament asked after he had Serbian blood. So his grandson, who thinks nothing less of the Serbs, said the Serbs in Vukovar had committed genocide against the werewolves. Also, the same Ivan Pernar, his grandfather's grandson, who asked since Serbian blood, which was warmly received here by Bosko Obradovic as a great friend of the Serbian organisation Dveri, and this is Serbian under the name of the alleged, has recently said that Serbs should recognise the genocide in Srebrenica and Vukovar, that Serbs through JNA have committed a major Serbian aggression. So, it's Bosko Obradovica's company, who you're with, who you're with. He's calling today a little TV time. We ask RTS to check how much Bosko Obradovic is live, in a live transmission program, I repeat in the transmission. You from RTS, how many times and how many times Bosko Obradović went live on RTS1 and RTS2 to his voters, how many times, how many times, how many live RTS shows, and how many shows was I, or how many President of the Republic had live as the most important official in the country as he had live on that same state television. There will be a defeating result. He was, like, on RTS as an MP for two, three years, I was eight times live on shows, I never once, I was in one shot. Today he pours crocodile tears over Bosca Pernar, over Atak, over Gilas, and tells us how many TVs Gilas has? Who owns the SBB? Who owned the ADS? Did Soros pay them? So, who you're with, that's who you are. Who are you with? You're with him. Boško Obradovica's policy can be reduced to the following, whichever the butt is, doesn't bother the cheek. I owe him an apology. He's used to playing how long he plays. I have no hearing, and I am not used to playing as Gilas plays, and let him continue, he will end up as Gilas did with defeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49642	I'm putting the motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, and I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Srdjan Nogo suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the elections for the Council of the City of Belgrade held on 4 March 2018 from the day of the call until the date of publication of the final results.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49643	A survey board would help citizens understand how the elections work. There are numerous manipulations in the election. It is not only specific to Serbia, so remember that Hillary Clinton also stole 11 million votes according to some estimates and failed to win again, but lost the election to Donald Trump. So that's what the current government does. That's what previous authorities did. That's what the authorities in the environment do. So, in the elections, the authorities have a great opportunity to conduct electoral manipulations thanks to the disorderly voter list, thanks to the information available that they can, for example, know which persons are currently abroad and readmissions are in the process, and here they are reported, of course, and listed in the voter's list, so they, even if they are permanently in those countries, have not been read and know that they will certainly not vote. They really vote here. This is the case of a phantom number of voters who suddenly register at home addresses, especially in multi-story buildings in Belgrade and in such environments. Thanks to media control, you have absolute inequality in representation. Thanks to abuses and the possibility of abuse in funding, you have a huge financial advantage over your opponents. That's why citizens don't go to the polls. That's why the citizens raised their hands from politics. I know that in the next election, you can resort again to some of the wrinkles. For example, in Belgrade 40% of citizens voted in those 2018 elections, and all over it has been artificially challenged and put into ballots this way. You can, then, resort to it again in some of the next elections, but you can't escape the fact that citizens have raised their hands from politics and that's one huge problem. That problem sometimes explodes in the face. That's why we need to make one committee of inquiry, a committee of inquiry that can prove all these things and facts. This can be proven, of course, in other ways, but at this point, as MPs, we would best prove it through the National Assembly polling committee. Here, if I'm wrong, and I've initiated this polling committee, I'm going to resign immediately and leave not only the seat of the MP, but to leave politics. One challenge for the ruling majority to accept this polling committee. If there is no reason and if my words are not true, then you accept this challenge. Look, we've also filed criminal charges against the people of the current government and against the people of the previous government. In 2012, we also filed criminal charges against Boris Tadic, Miki Rakic and the entire top of the Democratic Party, because then we once again testified and began the whole story of election theft, which the SNS then also accepted, because we proved that the Dvori were stolen in the elections. We proved that, say, G 17 and LDP had no censorship, but that they were artificially inserted into parliament. That's what happened later. It's been repeated before this government. No one has ever come to the polls in Serbia, nor has there been a change in the elections in 2000, and in 2012 you did not come to the elections, but a congratulations from Brussels that arrived at four, five, afternoons, which congratulated Tomislav Nikolic, although the elections did not end. We want to restore trust in the elections, restore power to the people, so the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49644	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Lutrija Serbia" affair related to Gjorge Vukadinovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49645	The chairman, Djodžre Vukadinovic, is another coalition partner of the previous speaker and Bosko Obradovic from the fake patriot organisation Dveri. It's also a questionable job to suck up money from a state-owned company. It's a "Lutria of Serbia", but it's already manners. I am glad that it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that wherever Dvori is, there is an unintended spending of funds, there is some abuse of position and there is someone sucking money out of various state-owned enterprises. I would only like to read for the public how the contract between Goran Jesic, i.e. the Indji Municipality and these feathers here are Maria Janjusevic, known as "Nina Media". Therefore, as of 21 February 2005, Article 1 of that Treaty has treated common rights and obligations between the contracting authorities and the contractors, but Article 5 is interesting. He says, "The orderer acknowledges the service provider's fee for services in this contract for total costs of of," be careful now, "so much and so much," I will not deliberately mention, "so many euros", and then with the letters "so many euros for tracking 307 printed and 42 electronic media". I think for the first time in my life, I've seen a contract that's closed, and it mentions a number in euros, so in foreign exchanges. When it comes to the previous speaker, a speaker who recently commented on the Belgrade elections, I don't know why he agreed to an obvious task he received from his head, Bosko Obradovic, agreed to comment on the Belgrade elections. Well, right in the Belgrade elections, Dvori had a complete debacle. Their debacle was just in Belgrade in the elections. He was most prominent in Belgrade. Two percent didn't get it, so. Bosko got away with it after the election, a car broke on Nog, so he had to be removed from the post of president of the Belgrade Committee or which he had already performed his post. If then Srdjan Nogo did not realize that Bosko Obradovic is selling his friends, betraying his party colleagues, then he will probably never understand. So, Bosko Obradic is only about money. He works for whoever gives him the money, it was Gilas, it was anyone. Chairman, we'll definitely accept his resignation. The resignation he mentioned earlier is certainly accepted, but for another reason – because he was abominablely calling for the murder of the president and prime minister and for all their lies, the chairman, who we hear about some violence at some gatherings, I only want to say one thing – Ranko Panic killed Boris Tadic's boot, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Dilas, but also Boška Obradovic, who is with them today in the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49646	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Srdjan Nogo suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the non-solving of the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in charge of business banks to credits indexed in Swiss francs. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49647	Serbia is a black hole on the map of Europe in the event of the problem of the people in charge with an indexed currency clause in the Swiss francs. Both the European Court of Justice and a number of other states, and even recently in Split, have declared the currency clause itself void. Only in Serbia do we have a solution for people in trouble. The first to solve like Hungary was resolved by the state. Later, the courts quite rightly resolved because such contracts were both illegal and illegal. In Serbia too, according to our legal regulations, however, our judiciary still refuses to resolve such a situation. Our judiciary serves the interests of banks and does not serve the interests of citizens. Even the legislator and the Government of the Republic of Serbia often serve the interests of banks, so at the last session, we adopted amendments to the Law on Procedural Procedures with an explanation to facilitate banks. So how much longer are we going to go out in this country to meet banks that rob both the state and the citizens? When do we start taking care of the people? If the courts don't do their job because they have VIP contracts, we have shown it here publicly at a session where Alexander Vukic is elected Prime Minister, and he himself said he doesn't know if it's legal, but he certainly knows it's not legitimate and it's not normal. So judges have VIP status and need these same judges to judge banks, and banks can unilaterally change their interest rate levels. Is that possible and is that normal? If we don't have a register where all the judges, all the prosecutors report, both they and their related persons, bank contracts and credit duties, we can't know and ask for the exception of those judges. That's why the National Assembly, as a supervisory authority, when the judiciary doesn't work, must take that role and set up a committee of inquiry and banish the courts within 120 days to clean up, to make them work by law, because being a judiciary independent does not mean that it is irresponsible and that it can behave as it will. That there is no justice is evidence of today's session of the National Assembly. So many charges were made in today's session both by the authorities and by the opposition. I'm just wondering if we have prosecutors, what do these prosecutors do, why don't they invite the MPs to say what they have to say about the crimes they're committing? Don't prosecutors in Serbia do anything? Even when the government is accusing the opposition of something, it's not pressure for prosecutors not to work, it's calling them, or it's telling us that people in power are liars and they don't trust them. This is one big problem that needs to be solved. As for Ranko Panic, counterpart Markovic, Bosko Oboradovic and I spoke at that rally and were 20 meters from the incident when Ranko Panic was brutally killed, and I know that you were present as the director at that rally, so that Ranko Panic cannot honor us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49648	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for -three. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The MP Markovic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and the unintended spending of funds. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49649	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, then Sutanovac, while at the head of the DS, was very helpful to the Dvora, as well as Dragan Djilas, as well as Goran Jesic in Indjija, which we talked about. And here it's clear once again that the Davers don't choose who they're going to work for, that's just on the basis of the criteria, and that's money. Who gives them more then they work for him. I would like to take the opportunity to remind us of what Bosko Obradovic once wrote and talked about Dragan Gilas. says Bosko Obradovic – Dragan Djilas has easily and quickly crossed the path from student leader to the tycoon media tycoon. So, this is Bosko Obradovic, this same Bosko Obradovic we're looking at here today, Gilas's striker, Gilasov's best mercenary in the Serbian Parliament. That's what he used to say about that same Gilas. He says – Dragan Djilas entered the media business during the Slobodan Milosevic regime, when it was possible or foreign agents, such as his partner from the beginning of B92 Veran Matic, or reliable people of the Milosevic married couple, such as Slavko Curuvija or Zeljko Mitrovic, who later changed their attitude. This is about a man who's willing to do whatever he says he's willing to do, that everything he's been saying is going down today, and that he's openly serving someone he used to say the worst things he's ever said. Let's just go back to that part about non-intentional spending, which is what this proposal calls for to form a survey board. So, I would like to point out that in August 2017, the Dvori paid 700,000 dinars, and then to the same law firm, just a month earlier, it was 1.1 million dinars, and in the list of services provided, it says it costs so much the legal training of party members, which added another 25,000 dinars. The state audit institution has found that as many as 39m dinars, 39m dinars, have been accidentally spent. In addition to the claim, documents showing only digital marketing and Google services from Dveri's account went to 2.6 million dinars. So, take it from the state, spend it on dates, parties, cafes, what's left of it in his pocket. And then he doesn't have to wonder why he cares about working with Dragan Gilas. All he cares about is his own pocket that fills with tycoons like Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49650	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: ten MPs voted for it. Ambassador Zoran Radojcic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49651	I thank the president. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, starting with international public rights and concrete international legal acts contained in the text of the resolution we propose, and following a trail of constitutional norms stemming from the constitutional preamble and constitutional norms concerning the integrity and indivisibility of the territory of the Republic of Serbia whose AP Kosovo and Metohija is no doubt part of it, and I need to stress at this point that the AP Kosovo and Metohija are under the mixed occupation of NATO, the EU and so on. Pristina authorities. We propose to adopt a resolution that is strengthened, to make one sovereign position of our Assembly possible, when it comes to the upcoming steps to keep the AP Kosovo and Metohija in the form of Serbia. This implies, first of all, an absolute breakup with the policy of a gradual recognition of independence so-called "independence". Kosovo, declared by illegal authorities in Pristina, and through EU dialogue and intervention. So how can those who have done everything in this dialogue intervene to kidnap part of Serbia's territory? A series of written and oral agreements concluded in Brussels, and especially with their gradual implementation, we have come to the conclusion that the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been unconstitutionally amended. Therefore, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija must return to the relevant international frameworks, as well as constitutional frameworks, given that the written constitution is a presumption of the rule of law. That is why it is of paramount importance for us, not only to adopt this resolution, but also to hold a special session on Kosovo and Metohija, which we do not manage to schedule, and we wonder why. Who is and what is afraid of, which could be heard at a special session in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija. Is there anyone who might be afraid of what's being said here recording and stenographically recording? There is some kind of dialogue of honor and respect, so other institutions and individuals, organisations, but dialogue on Kosovo and Metohija should primarily be conducted here, not run in Pristina, Brussels, Washington and elsewhere, except the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49652	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Radojić. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for three, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one among the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dragan Gilas, leader of the alliance of millionaires and Ljotics, is now almost everyone known until the moment he began to exercise power. He totalled 70,000 euros. During the time of Dragan Gilas, the media through the ad has been cruelly controlled. Today, Bosko Obradovic is trying to wash the biography of Dragan Gilas and they will not wash the yellow, looting color from Dragan Gilas. Rather they will lose their characteristics and try to defend what they cannot defend. At a time when Dragan Gilas came down from power, the salary was 320 euros. Today's salary is 428 euros. Minimal was 161 euros. He's minimal today, I think, 228 euros. That's 35 to 40% increase. Pensions are up. Public debt fell, a deficit that was 6% of GDP at the time. Unemployment at 26% dropped to 11%. Look at the wonders the Dvori have joined. Now the people have more money, the people need more money, that money needs to be distributed properly. The money should be taken from Gilas, but, behold, Bosko Obradovic is there to help prevent, side by side with the millionaires, to side with the rich, to side with the millions, to side with the poor and to try to prevent money from being distributed to the poor, to ordinary citizens and to try to fill the pockets of Dragan Gilas who is involved in numerous affairs. From the bridge on Ada, which ended in 540m euros instead of 115m euros, from King Alexander's Boulevard, from the underground containers, from the Bluesplus, from the Pionir City, from the reality against which Bosko Obradovic is involved, but is not against it, against the boss, when Dragan Djilas is doing so, therefore, in numerous affairs Dragan Djilas is involved. And, today, Bosko Obradovic, at all costs, wants to defend Dragan Gilas's right to get rich again on the back of the poor woman. That is why a survey committee should be formed and everything examined regarding Dear Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49654	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the 144 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign, which was divided into the National Assembly on 15 December 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for three, against those who are abstentioned, there is none of the 145 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska and Branka Stamenković on 8 November 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for two, against the abstentions, of the 145 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas on 17 August 2018. Here you go, fellow Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49655	Thank you, Chairman. I respect my rule, that is, the proposal I made at the College recently held, which is that the opposition MPs propose no more than two proposals to supplement the agenda to improve the work of the National Assembly. One of those two laws is just the law - the amendment and addition of the Law on referendums and the People's Initiative. What adorns this law is precisely its power, or the power of citizens, to be able at any time, in accordance with the rules described in that law, to submit any proposal to the National Assembly and to discuss such proposals. One such proposal I think is well known to the general public, it is precisely about the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code, when recently, about a year ago, 160,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia submitted, or expressed their will and gave their signature to put the amendment and addition of this law on the Parliament's agenda. Since then, every trace of this amendment and the addition of the law has been lost and, unfortunately, we do not have a discussion in the Assembly today about this problem. I am sure, dear fellow MPs, that none of us individually have 160,000 voters behind us and that because of this kind of vote they are in the home of the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask you to respect the civil will and to adopt the amendment and supplementation proposal of this law, at least to put it under discussion at the home of the National Assembly, and then at one point to adopt this proposal and to set a deadline for the National Assembly in which it is obliged to discuss proposals that come from citizens. Our advantage as MPs is that this is exactly the law or any other law at any time, whenever we wish, we can hand it over to the National Assembly. Citizens must respect a certain procedure and, within a very short time, at least 30,000 citizens must express their will in order to find some draft law in the home of the National Assembly. In this case, in this particular case, it is 160,000 citizens and I am sure that as MPs, we must not ignore the will of 160,000 citizens and with this regard, I really want to remind you that the power of citizens is far greater than the power of the individual.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49656	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for five, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one among the 144 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Comrade Obradich, is everything all right with your seats? Is everything working? Because that's where Baby Radulovic sits. Okay. It's all right. That's what matters to me. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 July 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for one, against the abstention, of the 144 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas on 25 September 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49657	Once again, I would like to thank the chairman and thank my colleagues for wanting to support moms in Serbia in this way. Unfortunately, we need to realise that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, has not fulfilled the promised, which is that the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on financial support for the family with children in the home of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, this time I have to do it for all my moms. We addressed the proposal in September of the month, and at that time we had a large number of beliefs from Minister Djordjevic and Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, that the amendments and additions of this law would be found on the Parliament's agenda. Unfortunately, until today, that's not what happened. What we can conclude is that in 2017, even a thousand babies were born in 2016 than they were born in 2016. One of the reasons, or one of the arguments used by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it referred to the Bill on Financial Support for the Family with Children, is that it will work precisely on the most promising measures by providing a kind of financial support to families who want to decide to have first, second, third, fourth or next children. What happened, this law has practically become an obstacle for families who want to have their first or second child precisely because of the fact that the full amount of compensation for mothers is needed to be in a permanent working relationship, i.e. in continuity in a working relationship for 18 months, which is, you will agree, in terms of Serbia practically as a flight to Mars. Our proposal goes in the next direction. So, we advocate that every mother in Serbia, whether in a working relationship or not, has the right to full compensation in the amount of the least republican minimum. We were wondering if there was any money in the budget. We found that money. We regret that no funds for mothers in Serbia have been found in the 2019 draft budget. We found them even though we suggest that, as the 63rd point on the agenda of this session, we find an amendment and addition of the Law on financial support for the family with children and if we do not get a positive answer on your part, we sincerely hope that you will accept amendments that we have managed to find the resources that are missing in the budget. Dear colleagues, once again I call you, you do not vote for any parliamentary group, you do not vote for any party. You're voting for your friends, your sisters, your colleagues. So press the key and vote for your moms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49658	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 13. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic and the unintended spending of funds. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can see Bosko Obradovic on the run right now. So, affairs related to Sasha Jankovic, I want a survey committee to be established and to determine who was killed in his apartment, whether it was his friend, whether he was killed with his gun, whether he was killed with his bullet, whether there were gunpowder particles on Sasha Jankovic's hands, which is unequivocal evidence that, for example, in America, the US court has imposed a death penalty for such a kind of serious murder that took place in his apartment. Also, it is necessary to interrogate Sasa Jankovic of the circumstances that Sasa Radulovic, Sasa Rasulovic, who wanted me here to be beaten by those who had now fled from him, as they were very good at it, so now they don't care... So, who at Sasa Radulovic's office talked about parallel security services? Also, I would like to point out Bosko Obradovic's hypocrisy and his, allegedly, Serbian Dvora, domestic servant Dragan Gilas, who just pointed out five transparents on the Latina, and just 45 minutes to an hour ago, they were falling fire to protect the Cyrillic. It didn't even take 45 minutes, and they waved at us with banners with Cyrillic inscriptions. Now look at how many there are. We've got one on the latin. We've got one on Cyrillic. We've got one against the yellow ones. We got one for the yellow ones. We have one Bosko Obradovic who is against the EU, so he is with the DS and Lutovac only for the EU, so he is against the NATO Pact, so he is with Vuk Jeremic who is a NATO pact, and is against the robbery, but he is hanging out with Dragan Dilas, who has 500m euros, and he is on the side of the poor, and is ruled by tycoon Dragan Dilas, who earned 500m euros while he was in power. What else is there to prove about this family called the Union of Swindlers, Cheaters and Ljuticians? They say Serbia is a fascist state, those who have a Latvian organisation in their composition. Only in Serbs who were fascists was Ljotic, who offered only at a certain time services to Adolf Hitler. So, if you're in favour of Serbia's Fascision, and you're hanging out with those who were with Ljotic and doing Latvian propaganda, then you don't know what you're doing. If you stand for someone who wants to hang, kill, rape, then that alliance is a fascist organisation that wants to rule Serbia and re-fill Dragana Gilas' pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49660	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Lutrija Serbia" affair related to Djordje Vukadinovic. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49661	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the affair are Boris Tadic and Djorđe Vukadinovic, called Djoka Vlah, who changed the nation and who, at the time of Boris Tadic, together with Tadic, "Lutrija Serbia", who has never been in a minus, pushed to minus. The whole country has been abandoned, abandoned, with no chance for the present and future generations. They robbed Serbia, even robbed "Lutrija Serbia" and pushed it to the ground. Boris Tadic, Boris Lepora, Boris second, Boris friend of Dragan Gilas tycoon, allowed Dragan Djilas to enter the DS in 2004, to be rich, to buy DS, to turn her into a hostage, to push her into debt slavery and try to regain her dirty goals, to empty the pockets of the citizens again, to fill her pockets again. Boris Tadic, who condemns the ruling coalition for the escape of Georgievski for buying Mercedes, was tried in Macedonia. Boris Tadic forgot that he bought the same Mercedes at the same price without public procurement. Boris Tadic, who, I dare say, sold the country for the chair, Boris Tadic, who replaced KIM for re-election in the presidential elections, who promised Americans via Vuk Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic that it would be for an independent KIM only to wait, not to declare independence for KIM until he was elected. That's what happened. Boris Tadic took an oath on February 14th, and Albanians declared independence immediately on February 17th. Boris Tadic fulfilled his promise. Boris Tadic robbed Serbian citizens. As he robbed, he participated actively with Dragan Gilas in the robbery, actively involved in the construction of a wild KIM state on the territory of the Republic of Serbia by ordering the opinion of the International Court of Justice, a court that was made by sponsors, judges, sponsors of the wild state of Kosovo. Also, they introduced borders between Serbs and Serbs on Brnjak and Jarinj. The UN has also replaced EULEX and thus deprived Serbia of helping Russia and China. I think that this kind of high treason needs our authorities, primarily the prosecution to prosecute the mention of Boris Tadic, to prosecute Vuk Jeremic, who today testifys from where he received 7.5m euros from Hong Kong. Therefore, they need to be conducted for high treason, robbery of the country, for poverty that was unsustainable to look at, poverty produced by ordinary people, citizens, workers who were wandering, unemployed, fired by city suburbs without bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49662	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former province secretary for sport and youth, Marinika Tepic, and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the privatisation of the tobacco industry and the involvement in the then state summit led by then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of the former president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and "Storm". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the bankruptcy affair related to former Economy Minister Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs of former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on it, and the responsibility of former President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former province secretary for sport and youth, Marinik Tepic, and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Nenad Konstantinovic and the former organisation "Resist". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-27-0.u49663	Please, before we go to the vote, just to determine the quorum. I find that 133 MPs are present in the O.R. National MP Aleksandar Markovic, based on Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), paragraphs 2 and 2. 170, 192, 195, 201 and 202. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint, principled and uniform search on the points of the draft agenda from 1 to 62. Does Ambassador Alexander Markovic want a word? No, thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, in general. The draft law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted by the Government; 2) the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the 2018 Act, which was submitted by the Government; 3) the proposal for a Customs Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4) the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019; the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Act of the Republic of Serbia for 2019; the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for the Health Insurance Fund for 2019; the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Act of the Republic of Serbia for the Year; the draft of the Act on the Law on the Law of the Republic of the European Parliament of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Law on the Law of the European Parliament of the European Parliament and the Council on the Law of the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council on the European Parliament and the Council on the European Parliament and the Council on the European Parliament and the Council on the Council's's's and the European Parliament and the Council, adopted by the Council on the Council on the European Parliament and the Council on the European Parliament and the Council; the Council on the Council on the European Parliament and the Council, the Council on the European Parliaments, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council on the Council and the Council on the European Parliament and the Council on the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Bor, which was submitted by the Government; 48) Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing public interest and special procedures of expropriation and obtaining documentation for the realisation of a system for the transport of natural gas "South Stream", which was submitted by the Government; 49) Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Parties to the Convention on Police Co-operation in Southeast Europe on Automatic DNA exchange, dactyloscopic data and data on registered vehicles, with the Agreement on the Implementation of the Agreement between the Parties to the Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe on Automatic Data Exchange, dactyloscopic Data and Data on Registered Vehicles, submitted by the Government; 50) Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on Co-operation in Culture, Art, Youth, Sport and Media; 51) Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Articles 37-1 and 147. The Act of Labour (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia) No. 24/05, 61/05, 54/09, 32/13, 75/14, 13/17-US and 113/17), which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law; 52) Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 22. The General Administrative Procedure Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), number 18/16, which was submitted by the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee; 53) Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Act of the Citizens' Protector, which was first elected by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs; 54) Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President of the Court of Justice; 55) Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who were first elected to the Court of Justice and the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 56) Proposal for a decision on the termination of the position of the President of the Supreme Court, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Parliament of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia; 57) The proposal for a decision to elect the Vice-President of the General Board, which was submitted by the President of the Supreme Prosecutors; 58) the motion for the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, which submitted the Court to the Court of the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice for the Court of Justice for the Court of Justice for the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court, the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Republic of the Court of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European of the Republic of the European of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European of the President of the President of the President of the European of the European of the European of the European of the President of the President of the President of the European Union of the President of the European Union of the President of the European Union of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the European; Thank you. This is where we end the work. We'll begin the debate tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf of her, the foreign minister and the diaspora of the Republic of Lebanon, Mr Dzebran Basil, who is with the members of the delegation in an official visit to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. We continue to work and move on to a common, principled and unique search on the proposals for acts from points 1 to 62 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the meetings are invited to attend all members of the Government with their associates, as well as representatives of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, advisers in the ministries, representatives of the Atomic Energy Agency and the ionising radiation, representatives of the High Council of the judiciary. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 157(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint, principled and uniform search on points of the established agenda from 1 to 62. Do the proposed representatives want a word, and in what order do you report? The word has the finance minister Sinisha Mali.
