ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39989	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) First, Djordje Vukadinovic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39990	Thank you. My first question goes to the address of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and concerns one, seemingly, small life subject. I usually ask big national questions here, but there are actually a lot of possible and legitimate things, topics that simply pass by us. One of these seemingly small issues that I refer to this ministry, i.e. the tourism sector of this ministry, concerns these famous free holiday vouchers in the country, which receive almost all categories of Serbian citizens and, to my amazement and infidelity, it turns out that in those categories that are taxed and where all, or almost all, employees with income below 60,000, pensioners, unemployed from the records, etc., there are no housewives. So an interesting category and a bit forgotten, but an important category, housewife, is not listed at all on this list of persons who have the right to these free vouchers. Given that this is an important measure, a good measure, a positive measure, therefore, completely independent of who adopted it and who adopted it, I think we should remove this, or check it out, but me and my associates have already checked it out and should remove that anomaly, that incredible fact, that the housewives, and that's also checked out in a phone conversation that I own, where it's explicitly said that this doesn't apply to them, and that's so for four years, as far as this regulation is concerned. So, not only am I asking, but I also appeal to this ministry that this mistake, I hope, by chance, corrects you and, as I say, slightly forgotten heroines, pillars of our families, our society, our transitions, can acquire that right that has a great majority and a large number of citizens of this country, to these free vouchers. As much as I have praised this measure of the ministry concerned, I am as concerned as I am, but it is a second topic, because of this announced upcoming practice, that a good part of our tourist facilities will be sold in one way or another and go to the other hand, but I say, it is a special topic. The second issue comes at the expense of the Ministry of Agriculture and Energy, and concerns the already mentioned topics of fuel prices for Serbian citizens, which also sparked protests, which have again caused, I would say, inadequate and unmeasured reactions by the authorities. This is not a topic of protest, it is not even so much a theme of fuel prices, although it is an important thing, but rather an unusual and frantic statement from the National Association of Farmers of Serbia meeting with Minister Nedimovic, where they are told there is nothing, and this is also published in the media, until autumn and only autumn can it be counted on a cheaper price for fuel. It guesses, of course, all the citizens, that it will eventually lower the price, either via excise, or in some other way, so it's not until autumn, but it's especially going to hit farmers. As they said, the main agricultural developments are now in the summer essentially not much to them when it comes and the old practice continues, that when something bad is introduced, something that hits the citizens' pocket, then it is introduced immediately and most often quietly and almost undetectable, and when it comes to something that needs to be relieved, such as this project, i.e. the abolition of the pension regulation or now this increase, i.e. the elimination of an increase or a reduction in fuel price, then it is pompously announced, and it takes effect somewhere in the autumn or often early next year. The last question of mine goes to the address of the Justice Ministry and concerns one again, I would say, strange, unpleasant and fragrant facts to which we are present, which was witnessed by Goran Ilic. So, the Commissioner for the Independentness of Public Prosecutors reminded us again, and in light of the latest "Cvetkovic" affair, it is inadmissible practice that everyone is talking about process investigations, except those who should be the only ones who are the public prosecutors. The highest public executives, the media, the strangest leaks of information, are reporting to the team about it, not just the ones who should. In that sense, therefore, I ask the Ministry of Justice for information and an explanation of this practice and whether it intends to do something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39991	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39992	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Free Members Group has four questions. First question I refer to the Minister of Health and also to the Minister of Information. In fact, the phenomenon of false news is mentioned these days, and I have to admit that false news is one extremely harmful thing. They also make confusion among citizens, amongst the economy, prompt people to make wrong decisions. How important it is to testify that a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held the last session at a conference of the European Parliament and the Lower House of the Czech Parliament on the topic and freedom of expression, where one of the key topics was false news. So the question for both ministers is what is going to do to prevent false news that has become, maltenes, media attractions, and they are bound to be harmful vaccines, and that the scope of vaccines should be as small as possible, to protect children from autism, which is one complete nonsense, so to speak, using one hard word, and whose result is a double-digit death rate? If we're going to talk about what a terrible "fake news" is, I think this is one of the key questions that we need to react to both as a ministry and as a society, and to prevent someone with even more destructive intentions, even less wit, from returning to child paralysis in Serbia. So, one terrible campaign of false news. The second issue is about our Eurointegration, which is a question for the minister in charge of integration processes. Unfortunately, the definitive reality is to open only two chapters in June. Of which one chapter, frankly speaking, does not matter to us at all. We even creatively wrote a negotiating position for the thirteen. It'll probably open up to 33. The reasons are not up to us, and that is true, but the three chapters stand because the process of obtaining consent, and all 28 EU members still need to agree. We simply didn't get the consent of at least three chapters, and we probably won't get them. It is our question – what are we doing in bilateral diplomacy and are we making every effort to speed up the process of opening chapters, because at this rate we will not meet our ambitious goal of becoming part of the European family, people, where we belong by our trade, by our culture and by everything else which is our identity as citizens of Serbia? The third issue is intended for the prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia. So the Free Members' Group watched two very important rankings of countries in the world. One is called the index of observed corruption, and we can see in it that in the last five years we have something called the stagnation of progress. So somewhere between 72nd and 77th, we're squawking at the level of corruption in the world. We're going from 39 to 42. The higher the score, the better the score. Noting that the Anti-Corruption Strategy also stands out this year and the Anti-Corruption Action Plan. My question is are we going to start with one basic reality, that corruption is not a moral problem, but that the rational answer of an individual to setting obstacles to life, or is the plan going to go towards reducing the number of places where someone, using their power, can ask for monetary services that do not belong to him by law, from people who want to speed up processes? The point of fighting corruption is to get the state out of where it shouldn't be. So my question is, will the next strategy plan and action plan respect that fact, because you can't destroy corruption with more than one state, not with more force, at least not in countries that are South-European mentality, but by removing obstacles? Accordingly, there is also another interesting index of economic freedom, which also says that after one major momentum, which we had in 2012, 2013 and 2014, we again entered into stagnation and that we have no progress in some areas, and you know that if people are not free to deal with business, if they are not free enough to negotiate, such countries cannot develop in the long term and have growth rates 6% and 7%, which the country at the level of development, such as Serbia, can certainly have. So my question is, what do they think they're doing about the items that are considered the most problematic, which is financial freedom, ownership rights, and the issue of corruption again? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39993	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39994	Thank you, President. I ask the question of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Agriculture, about how the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture will compensate for the damage caused by agricultural cultures and crops in the past few weeks, and also for several months, given that the situation of damage is catastrophic and that this 2018, as well as all previous years, Serbian farmers suffer huge damage to their production and are all in a difficult situation related to their existence and to the functioning of their agricultural land. So, what we have seen so far is what the government measures are, it mostly comes down to the pity of farmers when something happens, so these days we could see the prime minister who visits the murdered orchards and vineyards and pitys farmers and says it's very difficult for them and how they understand them and how the state will do everything to help them, just forgets to answer, to say – why Serbia is unable to pay the anti-urban shooters to keep all the anti-building stations operational, to make the modern system of anti-building protection. We also had disastrous consequences last year from the huge droughts that hit the country. Over a billion are estimated to be damage. Last year, they also felt sorry for farmers and said it was a great drought, how we're going to make a canal irrigation net, how Arab money is about to arrive. We have been waiting for these Arab money to invest in irrigation systems and irrigation channels since 2013. Here, we haven't had any of that in five years. In 2015, too, there were floods and there was a city. In 2014, there were devastating floods. So back five or six years each year in agriculture are the conditions of damage abnormal. So, for farmers themselves, and also for the state of Serbia, in terms of creating a gross social product. And you think of peasants only when you say – GDP this year will be slightly smaller because they were large droughts or because they were floods, etc., etc. So, the bottom line is that until today, the state has done nothing to invest in prevention. So, preventive action doesn't exist, just pity when there's a problem. And I will remind you that even the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, in 2015, at a presentation of the National Risk Management Programme from elementary disasters, stated that each dinar was invested in the prevention of equal to seven dinars spent on reconstruction and that Serbia will now start with prevention. Here, for three years or six years, there's nothing in that prevention. Furthermore, I ask the Minister of Finance – how long will the Government of the Republic of Serbia violate the Budget Law and set out below 5% for the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia, or for the agricultural budget? Since 2012, when you came to power and promised to increase the agricultural budget by 1% each year, it is smaller today than it was in 2012. So, if you have a surplus in the budget, if everything is as you say Serbia is booming, that it gets better and better from day to day, so give a little of that money to farmers, and don't just remember when farmers are campaigning and then you talk about the peasant, you go around the fields and the stables and you talk about them being the pillar of this country. Yes, two million people today live in agricultural production, from agricultural production in the Republic of Serbia. Of those two million people, most of them are professionally engaged in agriculture, they live on it, and the state doesn't recognize them in the budget. Serbia's largest employer is small agricultural, family owners. And, of course, what's also true is that no one in recent history is more light than farmers from this government. You cheat maliners every year with promise of price, you cheat on warlords, you cheat on orchards, you cheat on vegetables, our farmers pay for the most expensive diesel fuel. I ask the question – why not reduce the excise duty on diesel fuel, so that our farmers pay cheap and subsidized fuel, such as Hungarians, Croats or anyone else, and why will farmers be able to apply for development support measures for 2018 this July?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39995	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39996	Thank you. I refer my question to Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarčević as well as Minister of Culture and Information Vladna Vukosavljevic. Namely, are the ministers mentioned to know that there are censorships in Serbia? As far as we all know, Article 50. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that there is no censorship in Serbia, that it is forbidden and must never have it. However, what happened in Vrsac, the town of Jovan Sterija Popovic, which I mentioned several times in this assembly? In the town of Vrsac, you can imagine teenage youth shows. The play “The Thing of Choice – Why Do I Listen to Marcel? “, which was scheduled to close the Circulation Festival held in Vrsac from June 08th to June 10th. In fact, even at the city council session, it was discussed that this play should be banned, that it should not be held, allegedly for technical reasons. In fact, the most problematic was the name of the show. Name only Marcello. However, when you ask the members of the author's team - what's so controversial about this play, they will be responsible for telling you – actually nothing. Perhaps the only question in this play is that young people are encouraged to think for themselves, not to be half-trons, to rely on their knowledge, on their own life, and that they can accomplish absolutely everything they want in their lives. In fact, when we talk about the technical reasons why the show is cancelled, it's a miracle that one play that requires an actor, one protagonist and one stuffed honey, actually maybe honey is a problem, an anti-state, stuffed honey, it's said that the technical conditions can't satisfy that kind of play. But what happens immediately after the show was to be held? Concerts, swords, paragliding, even extreme sports are being held. If you ask the organizer, they will say it is up to them, but the real truth is that city council organisers are threatened that the entire festival will be cancelled unless this play is removed from the repertoire. It didn't help that the authors of the show sent the whole text for insight. And it didn't help that psychologists who work in schools, both primary and secondary, pointed out that this play is the brightest example of how to grow up, that it's full of extraordinary messages about how to grow up. Nothing helped. It didn't even help the verse Marcelo says in his songs, so it's the most positive verse that says – Touching the sun means burning your hand 100 times. What's the matter here? What's so much trouble here that made this show censorship? So I ask the ministers, both Sarčević and Vukosavljevic, whether in the draft strategy, or the draft education strategy, it says that children should not and should not think for themselves? Is it in the strategy of the design of culture, cultural development, that plays should be banned, wouldn't they be inspired by someone? Remembrances for the sake of it, there's over two and a half thousand years of hired theater. No normal government has ever dared to ban and censor performances, especially performances performed by young children, youth, teens, students, who only want to do so is to deal with culture in their places. Uroš Mladenovic, who is the author of this performance, also runs the Youth Theatre in Paracino. The only thing he and his team, his young students, students, want to do in this country, is deal with art and culture, that's all. Neither to destroy power, nor to destroy the state order, nor to demonstrate anything like it, nor to demonstrate against this authority. The only thing they want is to deal with art and to deal with culture, and now they're banned from it. What kind of message, not only to Uros Mladenovic, but to all the young people who want to stay in this country, the only thing they want to do, is to deal with what they've been trained to do. They want to deal, imagine, with art. Is there anything more beautiful than that? Perhaps some will say that this question is not the most important issue in our country. Maybe not. For me, it is one of the most important, because if the government, at any level of government, prevents young people from doing what they want, then it's a safe way to fail for society as a whole. And the recommendation of every government is to be as open as possible, as democratic and as free as possible towards culture, because giving complete freedom of art shows that it is democratic, and art itself, and at least becomes critical when it is free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39997	Thank you. Marinika Tepic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39998	Thank you. I refer the issue to Ministry of Interior Nebojsa Stefanovic, and on the occasion of journalist Stefan Cvetkovic, who was reported missing on the night between June 13th and 14th, 15th found. So, the question is first - why is it that in the case of journalist Stefan Cvetkovic, Minister Stefanovic and his data publisher Aleksandr Vukic, since it is the data available to the MUP, not the cabinet of the President of the Republic, is suspicious of everything else and is suspicious of everyone other than members of his own political party, other than members of the Government, who are members or are proposed by the SNS, given that Stefan Cvetkovic had public contacts, there are evidence, photographs, and with Prime Minister Ana Brnabić and with Minister of Agriculture Branislav Nedimovic? So my question, too, and did the police question them, or did they talk to them about it? Do they, of course, have any knowledge of what the nature of their contact was? Also, since Minister Stefanovic had a joint appearance at a public press conference with Aleksandra Vucic, as president of the Republic, and previously said they had consulted themselves, I ask where did they get the information and inspirations for all the illusions, interpretations and projections for the conclusions that foreign factors and destabilising interests would be blamed for the damage of the Republic of Serbia and, as I say, did not deal with the contacts of Stefan Cvetkovic with senior SNS officials? In that light, I ask also, did the police question SNS Executive Board Vice-President, here in parliament already known Branko Malovic, also SNS official from Pančev Dejan Simunovic, called Simke, because they both sued for insulting journalist Stefan Cvetkovic? So Cvetkovic had serious problems with them, sentenced to two years in prison and two million fines in March of last 2017, from which it is clear that Cvetkovic had problems with them. I must point out that in the second-degree procedure, he was released, that the judge in Pančev Stanka Simeunović released him, but after that, thanks to the already mentioned Malovics and Simeunovic and their information family on TV Pančevo, this woman Harangevan, which is why she reacted, the media is able to see and prove all the professional associations from the judicial area. Also, I have to add that on this point, given that the White Church region is close to me, I belong to the South Banat, that the Belokkrans had knowledge that after this problem, Cvetkovic with Malovic and Simenovic, Cvetkovic abruptly stopped reporting critically about the SNS, but that he testified repeatedly that he had personal and phone contacts with the same team, Branko Malović. Is it mine to think or not that this conversation was necessary, but I certainly ask Minister Stefanovic if the police questioned these senior SNS officials as well? Also, on what grounds did the Pancevo Police Administration file last night, at least last night's news release, file criminal charges against the same Stefan Cvetkovic? What jurisdiction, by which locality, since he had nothing to do with Panchev? Speaking of the Pancheva Police Department, I'm going to take the opportunity to ask the minister on what grounds and why Joseph Milkob, who was the head of crime in Pancheva, and the Pančevs have no information about it? In addition to this whole situation and the atmosphere that is being created, I am obliged to ask and – how is it possible that more than 10 days ago the disappearance of the Romanian Nationality Council of Mohan in the municipality of Alibunar has been reported? The disappearance was reported by the president of the municipality. Ten days of that man gone. According to me, he's not in his house yet, and I haven't noticed that any helicopter has been hired, that any M.O.P. units have been hired to search for him or that Mohan's kidnappers have been known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u39999	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40000	Thank you. The first question is for the Ministry of Environmental Protection, i.e. for the minister. On what grounds is the legal responsibility exempt from the business subject "CA Grup" from Belgrade, which postpones the waste from Jelizara Smederevo, which is deposited at the location of Jelen Do in Radinc near Smedereva, which poisons the environment of these citizens? Does every landowner have the right to pollute that land and thus endanger all other citizens? The minister has otherwise already been contacted by a representative of the Smederevski Host Association from Radinac, who has also informed the locals that they have been fighting a battle with local and republican bureaucracy over the disposal of five million cc's of slag, which is violently, i.e. without the knowledge and consent of the local community at the time, and with the permission of the mayor of Smederev Jasna Avramovic and the Ministry of Industry, is being postponed at the location of Jelen Do in the village of Radinac. The mention of slag has been delayed between two drinking water springs. The distance between these two sources is 500 meters, and this litter of contagion and pollution is only 1,000 meters from the center of the village, and 200 meters from the inhabited houses. My second question is for the President of the Republic. Is he aware that his statements on Ukraine and the alleged territorial integrity of Ukraine threaten the relations of Serbia and Russia? Because, like Crimea, Russia, so is Kosovo and Metohija Serbia. These are areas that are at a time of communist separation and are now simply returning to the practical situation on the ground. We only have Russia next to China in the UN Security Council to help protect Serbia's interest in our southern province and it's dangerous to play with it. With that in mind, it is now clear, too, that my colleague Ivan Kostic, as chairman of the Diaspora Committee, has been replaced after the visit of Prosecutor Natalia Poklonska and MP Duma, who is instigating with Crimea. The second question to the President of the Republic is whether it remains in its view that Serbia will not be parking for migrants? I'm asking this because we've been reading in politics for days about the announcement of a new migrant crisis. We do not, of course, object, even welcome the fact that migrants need to be helped to go to the destinations they have headed for, but should not be naive and should not be careless with the statements of EU officials. Simply, I ask the president how he will protect the interests of Serbian citizens? The last question is for the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government – are you familiar with the violations, better say the crime that happens in the Prijepolje continuity, and in Dragoljub Zindovic, the president of the Prepolje municipality and his party associates, as well as the parties who support the ruling majority here in the city parliament? Did the authorities comply with the obligations and competencies of dozens of applications filed against Dragoljub Zindovic, of whom, according to our knowledge, was the last submitted on June 13th of this year? Is it true that at least 7.2 million dinars of money belonging to the citizens of Prepolje were drawn from the New Market from the municipal budget through the phantom company Global Partners Plus? There are clear indications that public enterprises and institutions in Prepolje, such as the House of Culture, the Centre for Social Work and others, are in organised crime and corruption, as they are, for example, The winter shared new year's real value packages of around 900 dinars, which were paid 3,500 dinars. Also, the windows for the administrative building cost 100,000 dinars per piece, and they were bought without public procurement. Public procurement was also left behind in a tourist organization with millions of dinars paid for promo material, inevitable New Year's lighting and Christmas trees. It is now already a symbol of the SNS rule, so we ask that these are the allegations for which in most cases and the ongoing investigation is being investigated. Is it true that the House of Culture in Prepolje ordered a risk assessment and hired as security for a phantom company that doesn't even have the necessary work permits? The prominent sportsmen in Prepolje strike hunger, because their municipality...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40001	Thank you very much. You're out of time. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40002	Thank you, President. Some MPs have said that their questions may not be among the most important. I think my question is one of the most important. Anyway, for people who are facing the problem I'm going to talk about, it's the most important thing. It is also important for those couples and especially women who are very often targeted by state officials because they do not have children or do not have children, according to their court, enough children, so it counts how many children per woman are needed to reach what is important and what is important for the state, since the most innovative policy is just one of the most important objectives that has been declared by both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic and the Ministers of Power, and Gods and many media. I refer the question to the Minister of Health, the minister without portfolio Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, asking that all data be received from the Republic Health Insurance Fund and that they answer me very precisely. In fact, on 17 June 2018, news appeared in some media that the freezing of embryos on the cost of the state would start to apply, and that is not all, but to follow more good news. At first glance, this looks great. However, when they get a little scratched, it appears that it is only, unfortunately, another trick that will lead to further confusion among those people who are not sufficiently served and spent enough, in the great bureaucracy and intense demands that follow the out-of-body fertilisation process. The problem is that on March 26th, it was also said that the freezing of embryos on the cost of the state would begin on May 1st. That's what the U.D. said. Director of RFO. Then on May 25, 1st, as you may have noticed, the freezing of embryos did not begin, said it would start from June 15th, the same person said, that this news would appear on June 17th, which is a full statement by those who carry out the outward fertilisation process, and it is full of various illogicalities and I think that couples who are in the out-of-body fertilisation process would be to answer my question very precisely. In this text, it says that although announced for months this process has not yet worked. Special refrigerators in five state hospitals where embryos will be frozen and stored are not yet working, but are tested and will be released when the first embryos arrive. What does it mean that the refrigerators aren't working yet? How can refrigerators not yet work when couples are already in the process of out-of-body fertilization, and when they can already freeze embryos, those couples who pay for themselves to freeze embryos? Does that mean they pay for freezing embryos in refrigerators that still don't work? The second question concerns the statement by the Director of the GAK National Front, who said - we have all technical conditions, the machines have been tested and licenses have been obtained, the appliances are not yet on, because they should not work until they are empty. Again, what's this about? Some couples themselves finance the freezing of embryos. Where do these embryos stick if the refrigerators in those five hospitals where they're gonna be frozen don't work? As we learn, this possibility will have only five state hospitals in Serbia for now, while privates who have signed contracts with the RFZO still do not have permission to freeze sex cells. That was confirmed by the Biomedicine Authority. Why are couples entering the out-of-body fertilization process not told that there will be a difference between private hospitals and state hospitals in which they are working out-of-body insemination? No, they're told that these hospitals are equal. They opt for private hospitals because there are no embryologists in the state, because they don't want to work for ridiculous salaries they have in state hospitals and now it turns out that couples who are in private hospitals will be discriminated against. The last question is equally important - will this freezing embryos and freezing be counted as a new attempt at out-of-body fertilization, because it is crucial for many couples who are in this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40003	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking of out-of-body insemination, my first question is the Ministry of Health – is it true that this power, the new authority, has approved a free third attempt and changed the law to improve the conditions of out-of-body fertilisation? Just enough to notify me and the previous speaker, since she's obviously not familiar with these things. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here a member of the Vuk Jeremic party, a recent member of Boris Tadic's party and a recent member of Mladjan Dinkic's party, has made a false claim, so I am asking the question of the Ministry of Agriculture – is it true that in 2006 a total of EUR 136,633,000 was allocated for agricultural subsidies in 2011, in 188m euros, and is it true that 2016 paid for subsidies total of 309 million? So almost twice as much as 2011 or three times as much as 2016. That in 2017, 268 million were paid and 281m euros were planned for incentives, subsidies in agriculture for 2018. Just to be seen from the answer that a member of Vuk Jeremic's party, a well-known oil man from the village of Ježevica, is here to deceive and tell the truth. The next question is for the Hydrometeorological Institute – is it true that this year we've had a record purchase of anti-building defense missiles, defenses against the city, that so many missiles have never been purchased before, and that never before has so many rockets been fired in this period? To tell us – is it true that our fact is limited along the border lines when construction clouds come from Bosnia and Herzegovina because they cannot react? Is it true that automation has begun, that is, to automate the anti-urban stations? Is it true that this is far better than it was in 2012? Let's move on, the question for the government and security authorities is the following nature – are there certain parallels between the events in Ukraine and Serbia? Is there a similarity between the poisoning of former Russian spy Scribal in England with a campaign run around poisoning with allegedly poisoned water lines in Belgrade and in other local self-governments? Also, is there a similarity between the disappearance of a Russian journalist in Ukraine under Ukrainian security services to furniture with the disappearance of journalists who allegedly disappeared in Serbia, the White Church and who, fortunately, was found alive and healthy? Are there certain parallels, or political tricks, to harm the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as was the case with the Government of the Russian Federation? Is there a similarity between the blockades made in Ukraine, trafficblocks and traffic blocks that have recently occurred in the Republic of Serbia, or is this in a certain way a special war, or internal assistance to make external pressures on our country, or does these events help with the external pressures and forces that pressure our country? Do our security services have any knowledge of that? Also, regarding a journalist who has disappeared, a question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for the authorities – is the offence if, when a journalist who allegedly was threatened, even by some opposition, was killed, when found, whether the Government and the executive authorities have the right to inform the public immediately about the knowledge they have, or to tell the people that false news that has spread is not true, or that there are indications that the whole case has been invented to harm this country politically? These are the questions I have for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I believe that the answers will be correct and that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be happy about our joy. With that thing about...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40005	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40006	I'm done. With that in mind, I'm saying there's no accident and no elemental accident that our political opponents don't want to take advantage of.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40007	The word is Danica Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40008	Dear Parliament Speakers, honourable MPs, today I want to ask Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, in charge of traffic and infrastructure. The issue concerns traffic safety and the consequences of an unregulated crossing across the Ibar highway near Lazarets. Namely, it is known that the Ibar Highway is the state road of the First B Order. This time, along the highway, i.e. Corridor 10, is the most burdened traffic in Serbia, but because of the overload, i.e. the intensity of road traffic taking place on this magistrate, it is one of the most dangerous roads in Serbia. The data suggests that at the time of the annual vacations, up to 18,000 vehicles pass the Ibar highway daily. The fact is, there's a lot more traffic going on this master road than what it's designed for. It is a large volume of passenger traffic, and in particular freight traffic, which is heading towards KiM and Montenegro, which contributes even more to increasing the dangers of this highway with local traffic and the proximity of populated areas. Unfortunately, we are very often informed from the media of a number of car accidents that occur on Ibarian magistrates. Many with tragic consequences. As a national envoy from the Lazarec municipality, I would like to draw attention to this problem from another angle. Namely, on the right side of the Ibar highway, at the entrance to Lazarec from the direction of Belgrade is Lake Ocaga. This is the favorite spa Lazarevcana, opened in the 1970s, and now it is a beautifully decorated place that visits hundreds of Lazarevcans in the summer months, especially young and children. Since there are no pedestrian crossings across the Ibar highway, running across this dangerous highway is the only way to get to this bathroom. Given the road load and the speed of the vehicle, it's very dangerous. Although running across the highway is not allowed by law, it happens daily, and that is why, unfortunately, every year, especially in the summer months, when the bathing season is open, there are numerous car accidents and injuries, often with fatal consequences. There have been several attempts over the past decades to get rid of this Gordi knot, but so far there are no solutions, and the danger of the city and the life of the people of Lazarets is increasing. There were promises that this part of the Ibar road would be bridged by a walking pass. On this occasion, I would ask Minister Mihajlović, who is in charge of traffic, and that is - Is it planned and when a pasararel will be designed and built, a walking pasarale at this part of the road Ibarska highway near Lazarec, in order to stop and prevent a number of traffic accidents and injuries of citizens due to running this part of the road, to go to Lake Ocago? I note that similar pasarellas already exist on this master's road, in Ripnje, Meljak, and the underground pasarella exists in the village of Batjevac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40009	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40010	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, it appeared in the Serbian public recently that the North Atlantic Pact plans to organise a club of hundreds of influential people in the sphere of culture, art, science, politics, sports that would promote Serbia's membership in the NATO Pact. I think that the government is obliged to respond to these allegations, and I refer to the parliamentary question to the interior and foreign ministers, Nebojsa Stefanovic and Ivica Dacic, as well as to the Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic – is it true that the attack on the consciousness of the Serb people has started in all studies, where more than 85% of the people against NATO is a pact and against membership, and that we are preparing a scenario from Montenegro where a decision on Montenegro's membership in NATO has been taken instead of the referendum, as the prime minister of Montenegro said that this is a wise and visionary decision of the state leadership of Montenegro because it is known that this would not go to the referendum? Is this being prepared in Serbia and why it is silent, given that two agreements were signed with the North Atlantic Pact, IPAP and SOFA, which give privileges to NATO soldiers in Serbia, such as neither the Third Reich soldiers led by the Triple Pact? The recommendations of the European Council on EU and Serbian membership negotiations also appeared. In addition to all the chapters, in addition to all the successes, in addition to its progress, it remains clear what was clear in 2000 and 1999, there is no EU without the recognition of KIM and there is no EU without imposing sanctions on the Russian Federation. State leadership should, at the very least, stop falling into talks and thus violate both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and state sovereignty and territorial integrity. So they don't even hide anymore, they don't even speak in the towers anymore, it's now written in official statements, in official EU acts. When are we gonna stop this anymore? The situation should be such that it should not be discussed, not dialogue on whether or not we should recognise Kosovo's independence and give consent and influence our allies in the Security Council not to veto Kosovo's entry into the UN. I think there is a consensus on this and there is no need for any dialogue in Serbia on this matter. So not only do these chapters mean anything anymore. The fact that Junker and Mogerini and McAllister are coming to us, etc. and that they're patting us on the shoulder and praising our reforms, our successes, etc. It doesn't matter. It's just about giving up KIM. The same security issue has one question, when will the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia kick MP Meh Omerovic out of the Committee on Service Control and Security? The man is not worthy to control the security services, given the scandal he has recently committed and thus shamed not only the National Assembly, not only the ruling coalition, but all of Serbia and every MP here who has to go somewhere to represent the National Assembly and Serbia, he has shamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40011	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40012	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The reason for my question is the fact that tomorrow marks the world day of refugees, so June 20th. It is a day when we remember a harsh fact that during the 1990s, as well as in 2004, over a million Serbs, more than 500,000 from today's Croatia's space, over 500,000 from today's Federation of BiH and over 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians from the KIM area were expelled. These facts best descript the senseless and false thesis of political elites in Zagreb, Sarajevo, Pristina and the work of the international community, that Serbia and Serbs were indeed aggressors, criminals, and that Albanians, Croats and Bosniaks were waging some kind of liberation wars and were victims. Also, the other facts I'm going to mention deny this thesis. As for Croatia, exiled Serbs continue to seek more than 40,000 hijacked apartments, search over 50,000 outstanding pensions, over 10,000 Serb families seek compensation for mined houses and local ones outside the province area, in tens of Croatian cities, thousands of expelled Serbs still waiting for their house to be renovated in the Krajina area. We have tens of thousands of expelled Serbs who, to a greater or lesser extent, have not been recognised as a full-time job until 1991. For example, we have Serbs who worked at a screw factory in Tvik, which is missing for five, ten years until 1991, and every Croat in the Tvik screw factory that worked then has a recognised job experience. Was it possible for any worker not to make contributions by 1991? Thousands of Serbs await recognition of their employment during the Republika Srpska province. Also, we have over 10,000 Serbs, exiled Serbs who were deceived during the sale of houses via the Croatian Real estate agency. A significant part of them lost homes based on a system of fake contracts. A significant part of them also lost some of the funds based on a double contract system, a contract was awarded for the sale of a house where he received smaller funds, and the real contract was located at a real estate transport agency in Zagreb. These crimes are not enlightened to this day. A similar situation lies in the Federation of BiH. A large number of Serbs have still not restored their houses due to a complicated procedure, a large part of them also have problems with the return of kidnapped apartments, business spaces, having problems returning to the usurped and kidnapped agricultural and forest land, as is the situation in Croatia. Similar problems are also with exiled Serbs and other non-Albanians to KIM. Slow rebuilding of houses, a worsening security situation, also problems with kidnapped, usurped property, so houses, apartments, business spaces. The basis for solving these problems would have to be the Vienna Agreement on Succession, i.e. the annex G of that Agreement, which clearly states that all citizens must be returned and protected by the rights they had on 31.12.1990, and all contracts concluded during the war must be declared void. Croatia has been obstructing the implementation of the G Vienna concession agreement since 2004, when the Agreement entered into force. I ask the question to the Foreign Ministry – when will it send a report, a memorandum to the UN, the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Council of Europe, the USC, in which they will say these facts and ask international organisations to insist and put pressure on Croatia and other centres, and Sarajevo and Pristina, to respect the fundamental principle of today's civilization, and these are human rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40013	Thank you. Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice? Since none of the representatives, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Stefana Miladanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic and Gordana Comic. We continue the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, the Minister of State Administration and the Local Self-Government Mr Branko Ružić and his associates are invited to attend. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40014	Thank you. The esteemed representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, fellow MPs, respected citizens, have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government and, as it is known, the SNS has assumed responsibility for managing local self-government in most municipalities. I have to point out again that that's exactly how it is in Novi Sad. In Novi Sad, the city government, led by Milos Vučević, daily works to improve the living conditions of the citizens of Novi Sad. That's true is a lot of examples. Since I have submitted an amendment to one of the members of the law, Article 2, I will not read, the list is long. See only in a month what one responsible government and one mayor in their local self-government are doing. Thus, the oldest citizens, i.e. the oldest citizens, are provided with pension cards, and for the youngest, we are allowed to apply for kindergarten via the Internet, and about the subsidies for staying in private kindergartens we can boast that we are leaders in Serbia. Educational centres are organized in Novi Sad, there is live international activity, representatives from the east and west are coming and the city is open to investment. We are just the European capital of culture, as well as the European capital of youth. When we talk about investments, there's a lot of them. The other day, you might say, a month ago, the Sheraton Hotel opened, and how many emergency buildings are opening tomorrow, I was already talking about yesterday. Hospitals, schools, churches, public institutions, streets, in one word, under the leadership of the SNS Novi Sad, are being restored.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40015	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mihajilo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40016	I want to meet citizens that, in addition to the regular funds that local self-government receives by the 2018 budget, those local self-governments that have projects and which have ideas can receive additional funding from the republican budget. Here I would like to commend the Ministry of Local Self-Government, which in March of this year envisaged 320 million for those local self-governments that have projects and have subsequent ideas on how to improve the lives of their citizens in their environments. This envisions 256 million for municipal construction, 48 million for eGovernment and 16 million for sports, cultural and tourism events. So what's written and written in the budget can be much bigger for those local self-governments that do domestic work and who know which way to go, because the most expensive are those projects that remain incomplete. On the other hand, let me tell the citizens that the transfer funds from the Republic budget amount to 1.7% of GDP, which in 2018, with an increase of 3.55%, is 4,755 billion, or an absolute amount of 80.83 billion. Yeah, for example, one Tutin gets 446 million transfer funds. So, quite enough that those local self-governments that have good leadership can very successfully develop their own local self-government. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40017	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubisa Stojmirovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Stojmirović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40018	I welcome the ministry's decision to improve the Law on Local Self-Government with these changes, but at the same time I have hope that the ministry will also have an understanding of these border posts, i.e. villages in Serbia. As I said yesterday in Serbia, there are about 4,600 villages that are mostly underdeveloped. In order to enable the development of the Republic of Serbia alongside cities and towns, we must also take care of the development of the village. I had this honor about 20, 30 years ago to be the guest of one of our men in Munich, and since we didn't finish the job within the scheduled time, he invited us about his cost of being his guest in the village. And now, normally we say – who wants to go to the village now to granise, I think, that the village is like our villages. When we went there that village was more beautiful than the largest number of our cities and more decorated. In order for our villages to be also, even if similar to our cities and townships, we must make sure that much more is invested in the villages. In addition to allowing them access to the Internet and the latest telecommunications, we need to build infrastructure, we need to provide them with roads, and let's say, places like Crna Trava, where there is a high school, it used to be a construction school, and today it's a mixed school that even training old-person care workers, we need to enable the development of these profiles, the personnel we should be studying, because today Serbia already has problems with the lack of master in the field of construction. If you go by these buildings that are built here in Belgrade and other cities you will see written – we are looking for builders, we are looking for carpenters, we are looking for armymen. So we don't come into this situation to import that workforce tomorrow, help those who know how to dress and teach these young people. Thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40019	National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Zeleg, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40020	I would like to thank the chairman, honourable fellow Members, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government closer to specify the rights, but also the duties of local self-government that arises from the Statute by the competent authority of local self-government. An amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The bill aims to look at the effects of the implementation of the statutes of local self-government and its impact on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The co-operation of local self-government and state administrations in cases where local self-government does not have the authority to realise, but jurisdiction lies with the authorities of the state administration, the most meaningful solution is precisely in the co-operation of two levels of government, with respect to the requirements of lower levels of government, in this case, local self-government. A good example of such practice and co-operation would show through an example of an agreement between the township of Surcin city of Belgrade and the Ministry of Traffic, related to the route of Corridor South Jadran, which once passes through the township of Surcin. By the president of the city municipality, it was proposed to the ministry to add to the project the construction of loops to cross the route of corridors and road of Surcin-Jakovo. Realisation of this project would provide communication in just seven minutes between Surcin and New Belgrade, and around the future loop would allow for the development of an economic zone in the village of Jakova, which is foreseen by the PGR in the area of 220 hectares and potential investors to invest quickly and easily in the most prospective municipality of Belgrade, which at this point is the richest road infrastructure. Realisation of this project will create additional effects. In order to accept the proposed amendment, I call on my fellow Members to support my amendment of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40021	The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40022	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which is being amended in Article 11. The Law on Local Self-Government, I propose to add attitude 2 to the implementation of the statutes of local self-government, provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. With this amendment, the improvement of the private sector is being introduced as one of the objectives that local self-government should pursue at all levels of its competence. Only by achieving the clearly set objectives and methods of work, which are known to be short-term and which long-term objectives, can significant progress and shift be achieved. I believe that this is exactly the way Serbia is currently on the road and that, day by day, by passing reform laws, we edit the area in a precise way. There are numerous examples of how many problems local self-government has had in some previous years, about paperwork and property relations or legal issues. A large number of non-compliant provisions and decisions that are legally invalid are topics of a number of public institutions and companies at local level. So, only by respecting the statutes of defined standards, pre-prepared thematic continents, there is a real chance of progress. This is a process that is already taking place and the municipality of Arangelovac follows the flows and recommendations of the Government of Serbia through the accelerated process of modernising the administration of the development of electronic business, issuing necessary permits and project documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40023	Thank you. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40024	Thank you. Our President and Government are working on modernising society in all segments to create a society that gives equal chances to all its citizens. That is why it is working towards modern laws to achieve its objectives. An amendment that I have made in Article 2. The bill on local self-government applies and goes in that direction. Realising the statutes of local self-government, provides a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a particular focus on improving the judiciary. Speeding up court proceedings and increasing citizens' confidence in the judiciary are the main objectives of reforming the same. The application of the new Law on Implementation and Security, which entered into force on 1 July 2018, has helped reduce the number of old executive cases by nearly 900,000 compared to the previous year, which established a free legal aid system. The aim of establishing such a system is to improve and provide legal assistance to all citizens, especially those in the most difficult financial situation. In this way they will be able to exercise their right to be equal before the court and other bodies of justice. The draft law on free legal aid will aim and will ensure that it agrees with local self-government in Serbia, so that we as a society understand the obligations of all relevant factors in this important process. It is also important to highlight the improvement of judicial infrastructure, the construction of courts in Serbia's cities, and thus create adequate conditions for the work and faster completion of the process. Citizens will be allowed access to justice. These are the aims of our society, and that is why our president also leads such a wise policy and reaches his goals. We're going through faster, stronger and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40025	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Mijatovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40026	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which, by adding Article 2, provides for the adoption of the statutes of local self-government in order to develop our country through the financing of institutions that take care of children. The change of the existing statue extends the scope of the operation of local self-government, particularly in the process of public debate when adopting various general acts. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that this bill refers to increasing the efficiency of the work of local self-government, since legal solutions propose full participation and full participation of citizens in all those issues concerning them. By including in the process of preparing part of the local self-government budget, which relates to investments, citizens will have the opportunity to say and propose what to build and invest in, while the public will be involved in the very process of drafting laws, strategic and other documents. As for funding and investment in institutions dealing with childcare and childcare, in particular, the City of Belgrade has presented a range of activities in the domain of responsible social policy through reconstruction, reconstruction and construction of childcare facilities. Social protection institutions provide children without parental ageing, children victims of domestic violence, carelessness and other children and young people coming from dysfunctional families. I want to point out that construction works are under way on the street. The nerve of Davidovic on Starar, where a shelter for children and youngsters will be located. An investment worth 97 million dinars will allow this shelter to be equipped according to the highest standards possible. Statistics show that about 600 children from seven to 18 years of age pass through the shelter annually, mostly those who have been abused, from the street, without parental ageing, or even children who are subject to human trafficking. Realisation of this project is important, especially for children, but also for us as a society.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40027	You are bringing the end of my colleague, Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40028	Childcare is a key task of the state and society, and in this respect, this amendment also potentiates investment, i.e. financing of institutions dealing with childcare.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40029	The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40030	I would like to welcome the government of Serbia's efforts to raise the key issue of the biggest war victims in the former Yugoslavia, those are expelled persons, and this is about housing. Although the Serbian government is doing everything in its power and we do have concrete progress, but we also have some problems, especially problems lagging behind in the days of Boris Tadic's regime. One of these issues I have spoken about several times in public is the problem of 530 families, users of the Sir program, who have their own housing units in seven local self-governments, it is Nis, Kragujevac, Valjevo, Kraljevo, Čačak, Panchevo and Stara Pazova Municipality. It is known that the government of Serbia and the government of Italy has made it clear that these families will have the right to buy their housing units. Unfortunately, during Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic, the option of redemption, the Law on Refugees adopted in 2010, was clearly said that all refugee families have the right to buy out their housing units which have been extorted by international organisations in such a way as to assess the real market price in this local self-government and 50% for wartime military people, families of fallen fighters and other extremely vulnerable categories are also going to an additional discount. But here we have been trying to solve this problem for many years. I am personally engaged in this, we have had more conversations, and this time I appeal to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to the competent ministers to try to solve this problem in favour of these families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40031	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40032	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government in order to explain how realising the State of Local Self-Government affects better funding of social institutions. In 2014, when the SNS headed the City of Belgrade, we found a 1.2 billion-euro debt, primarily in the name of a backlog, the earnings during the pregnancy leave amounted to 390 million dinars. That debt was covered in 2014. Also, debts were settled and once paid to employees and unemployed families from 2013, the debt amounted to six million 375 thousand dinars. Also, at the expense of the debt, regular monthly payments were made to employees and unemployed families. On behalf of public service subsidies, four billion dinars were found in 2013, which the SNS covered with its coalition partners of course. In total, we covered five billion and 320 million dinars on the name of the debt left behind for socially endangered families, single aid users and pregnant women, utility subsidies and other debts. This debt is fully settled without borrowing in the next period. Local self-government is working to establish the missing social services prescribed by the Social Protection Act, which will allow adequate human treatment for users, who need social care. One of the decisions of local self-government is making decisions on citizens' rights in the field of social protection. Based on this decision, local self-government provides funds for funding work in social institutions. The institutions in carrying out their regular work, as regards the social protection functions of citizens, provide funds from the budget of local self-government. For example, solving unrealistic, unresolved housing issues of the socially endangered population, also giving textbooks to children, school supplies, and funerals to NN persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40033	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40034	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Like all amendments I have submitted to the amendment and supplementation of this law, this amendment concerns the sustainable and economic development of the Republic of Serbia. The efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do all that is best for our country through this law and that everything comes down to economic and sustainable development, to create conditions worthy of every citizen of ours. That this is true is also seen from the 2030 Agenda's objectives, namely the Sustainable Development Goals, and the two objectives are: reducing inequalities that define both this law and sustainable cities and communities. I would point out here that the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, in Article 11 of the Law, are important because they bring about a change in the manner of determining the competence of local self-government units in the work of the Assembly, the council and the administration, improve the mechanisms of direct participation of citizens in the conduct of operations in local self-government, reform the functioning of local communities, and what is significant is the paper, strengthen inter-municipal co-operation, which is something really new. It is through the concept of inter-municipal co-operation and joint performance of certain works of municipalities and cities, which are of interest to citizens and will solve real life problems of citizens, especially where there has been no or no capacity to perform certain tasks such as municipal, inspection and so on. Also, all the solutions passed by the law amending the Law on Local Self-Government contribute to the better work of units of local self-government, greater participation of citizens in policymaking, more efficient work of officials, more advanced solutions for creating better conditions for the life of citizens of the entire Republic, which is the primary goal pursued by the President of the Republic and the Government headed by Ana Brnabic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40035	Thank you. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and together Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, the Witch of Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40036	Article 3 you intervened on Article 13 and you say that units of local self-government can co-operate, it said earlier: "with NGOs", and you have now said "with associations", yesterday we have made little comment and today we will add even more detail, and you are adding a position that says that "the unit of local self-government within its competences follows the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia and therefore develops the necessary administrative capacities, in accordance with the law and established policy of the Republic of Serbia". This attitude is mostly unconstitutional. Local self-government can't do this job. You say - within your jurisdiction. What are the competences of local self-government, which are related to Euro-integration? You're still saying you're developing administrative capacities for these needs. Minister Ruzic, do you know what your administrative capacities are like in local self-government? Ask your party buddies who have years of experience on local self-government whether they share our position, and I'm sure that, that people who now have maybe ten or slightly more years to retire, when they leave local self-government, there won't be anyone there to do a simplest job anymore. Why? Because people who are sent from the municipal boards of the ruling party are hired there, because people who come without a diploma are sent there, so in a few months they get a diploma, and then with that newly received degree right now they get a new job, because in local self-government people are hired for a certain time, they don't do anything, they don't usually don't come to work, the only obligation they have is to provide capillaral votes before elections, and a certain time repeats multiple times, and the largest number of these people never actually get a job. Do you know, Minister Ruzic, that even in this building, it happens that someone who's been working here longer, who has nothing to do with political parties can't tell anyone, and otherwise, according to the systematization and job description, they should say -- associates, call MPs for that time and for that time, I've arranged with the board president to schedule a session of one of the assembly committees, and that associate says, who, I should call, so I came here through the party, I don't work here. Do you know this is happening? We know perfectly well, and we don't mind, we're not populists. We Serbian radicals say that when you fight for power and you win power, then you have to take responsibility, and that doesn't mean you can't hire someone who's a party member. We do not think that party membership is something that people need to stay away from, on the contrary, every political party needs by its own programme to attract as many people as possible, that the more people become party members and, of course, those party members and through the victory of their parties are achieving some of their ambitions. But it must be covered by a proper diploma, it must be covered by an appropriate experience, it can't be a member of a political party to anyone, not a distraction, but no recommendation. There are many problems of this kind in local self-government throughout Serbia, and I am convinced that you, Minister, know that. So, among other things, this attitude cannot possibly be an integral part of the law. You're talking about working with associations. Yesterday we started this debate that it's become fashion for the last few years to form certain associations on the territory of the municipality, I said yesterday, most often called the Association of Florists, Roses for Women, Flowers for Ladies, etc. and such organisations appear in municipalities with allegedly some of their programmes and, on the basis of this programme, they receive money from the municipalities' budgets and they share for those activists who participated in election campaigns. So what we're saying is a public secret, and everyone in Serbia knows this, and don't legally create such opportunities, see that such things are suppressed by law. In principle, we told you, among other things, that this law was actually passed for the sake of NAED and for the company Aseko. No one has yet to answer how many of these companies have taken in local self-government and state bodies. They say her income increased by sixm euros on behalf of 13 businesses completed in public institutions during 2017. So, to remind you, this is the company of the brother of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and Ana Brnabic was the president, the director of NAED, as it is already called, she was visiting local self-government before she became a minister, she suggested to local self-governments to take loans, to enter into some major investments that they did not come out of today. For example, there was a debate here the other day about the president of the Municipality of Paracin, so he received a charter from Ana Brnabic, a reward, what if, as one of the best or best presidents of the municipality. So, you're a little alone with yourself in college. What else is important to this member and in fact this whole law? When Ana Brnabic became Prime Minister, e-Government was a priority and digitisation of the general public sector, and then we listened here to how already the e-governments in some local self-governments function, which, of course, has nothing to do with e-Government, so we heard how e-Government implies procurement of hardware, software, how the system implies, here I am now quoting my colleague, the electronic voting of committees on electronic reports and is like the electronic system applied here in the National Assembly. While he was speaking to a colleague, he was also laughed at by those who were sitting around him. But he says – the full work of the system will be controlled by the President of the Assembly and his deputy via electronic device, central console, etc. So this isn't the point. The bottom line is that if you wanted the Law on Local Self-Government to substantially change, although there is no need for any more serious changes to the existing law, then you should have passed a whole new law. One more thing, Minister, in the context of this debate, we also have proposals for laws relating to national minorities. You know that elections for national councils of national minorities should be discussed very quickly. You continue, the majority of the congregation insults the representatives of all national minorities. These are people who are loyal to the state of Serbia, who live here, who respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and who deserve to be respected primarily by the National Assembly. The National Assembly has shown great disrespect for national minorities, because, behold, almost 15, 20 days have passed and the head of the National Minorities Council, the Committee, pardon, assembly, Meho Omerovic, who has shamed the national minorities, the state of Serbia, and the National Assembly by stealing at the Frankfurt airport, and it is obvious that neither in his political life nor in his professional head hair will be missing. Gentlemen, that's a very bad message. It doesn't matter if Meho Omerovic committed a petty theft or if it was a more serious theft, it depends on what further actions he has done. It's likely to be a misdemeanor, but it's either a felony or a felony, however, the shame has arisen, it's called for a diplomatic passport, diplomatic status, and it's high time that his party, and the ruling party, solves the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40037	The word has the People's MP Gorica Gajic as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40038	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers and DS MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill is deleted. In some ways, we could replace this position of the 1st member and, I say, keep it, since only technically there is determined that the words “non-governmental organization” are replaced by the words “association”, that is to say, harmonize with the Law on Associations, so let me say that it can pass. However, this position 2 absolutely should not be standing now in this Article 3. We also believe that, above all, he is unconstitutional, because here, in some way, he legally commits himself to local self-government to develop administrative capacities, which means that he should eventually hire new people to be some partner to the government in implementing European integration policies, and in some way go in that direction. We find this unnecessary, especially now, given that the number of employees in local self-government is limited. This would probably mean an increase in the number of employees, and it is a much greater reason – why now to impose a commitment on local self-government to monitor European integration, when we are witnessing that these European integrations have completely stopped at this point, or rather I would say they have gone into a dead end. Of course, there will be a long wait for new chapters to open. We see that that's why it's necessary and necessary and that we're being blackmailed that we're going to have to, if we're going to continue on that path, to eventually admit KIM. We all knew that from 2000 to today, unfortunately, we're going to have to accept that and at some point we're going to have to stop with those integrations. So I ask you to erase this attitude, it does not necessarily mean that it will always be in power, both at the republican level and at the local level, the Euro-fanatics, there may be other parties who will turn to Serbia more and some other developed countries, so we certainly won't need this attitude, and why we have changed the law then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40039	The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40040	Thank you, Chairman. So, very briefly, not entering into that the legitimate political position with regard to the EU is every party that has its representatives in parliament, this is about monitoring the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia by the unit of local self-government, and through the permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, where local self-government representatives are practically meeting those values and those, I would say, the provisions of legislation that will just follow, and this is practically about 20 or 21 negotiating chapters. It's something that's probably quite natural in a country where one of the strategic goals is exactly the process of European integration. What's also mentioned here as one bad trend in local self-government units, I want, simply, and because of the people who have been working for years and thank Mrs. Radetti for saying that I probably don't have enough experience, even though I've been dealing with local self-government for 20 years, I think the most precious part is those officers who work permanently in all local self-government units. It is they who carry out all the reforms and apply the provisions of the rules adopted in this House and that they deserve really respect, and I don't think it matters whether or not they are members of some political organisations. We all know how it used to be the same party membership people hire, now we're taking care of it, we're doing rationalization, optimization. In this law, you also have the view that it does not foresee new employment, but that it is through the optimization process that this, I say, increases administrative capacity to form in a way that gives positive effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40041	A colleague of Radeta's, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40042	I don't have a right to a replica, do I? Well, I think I have the right to a replica, but well, your choice. Because the minister misread what I said. First, the legitimate right is to take a stand for or against the EU. We Serbian radicals are absolutely against the EU, but it is not only a legitimate position, but a commitment, respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Local self-government cannot go, according to the minister, to meet European integration and the opening of certain chapters, as long as they do not have such constitutional authority, and now they do not. As to the kind of people who work in local self-government and whether or not they belong to a party. Of course it doesn't matter, and I emphasized that when I spoke earlier, it's about hiring unprofessional people, hiring uneducated people and hiring people who forcefully don't want the local authorities to learn to work. That's the problem, Mr. Minister, and it's not the fact that they're members of a party or not, but that they don't want to learn to work. It will be a problem waiting for the state of Serbia before these chapters, before the EU will ever enter, because local self-government must be a service not only on paper, not only in law but truly, and unfortunately these are getting smaller.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40043	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40044	I thank the chairman. Article 3 of this amendment concerns Article 13 of the basic law, which states among other things that local self-government units can co-operate with local self-government units within the framework of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Constitution and the law. It is therefore a member, or position proposed as a newspaper, to monitor the process of the European integration of the Republic of Serbia and to develop the necessary administrative capacities in accordance with the law and established policy of the Republic of Serbia. We are already in collegiate with a basic member, because it was only enough last night to look at the news and see the activities of the German ambassador who hastens Serbia to sign a legally binding agreement. We know that Serbian citizens are not very excited about all the conditions that stand in our way to become a member of the EU, but when we ask them if they would give up Kosovo and Metohija for Serbia to become an EU member, then the percentage that votes against it is over 80%. Therefore, I think that in the present very complex political situation it is completely irresponsible that we are referring to the law and established policy, not the Republic of Serbia, but to this current regime on the unconditional pathway to the EU, while neglecting the Constitution, which only now protects us, protects us from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, preamble, protects us with a good relationship with Russia and China and their position in the UN Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40045	Thank you. National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Radojićic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miladin Ševarlic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40046	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to answer two questions. The first question – can the amendment and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government be replaced by the term "non-governmental organisations"? That's one question. The other two issues concern the competences prescribed by the future statute or the statute of local self-government. The first is to determine the rate of original income. By reducing the transfers of budgets from the Republic level to local self-government levels, most local self-government funds have been significantly reduced. As a result, local self-government has increased the revenues they have the right to introduce on local self-government, which have become intolerable for citizens in the area of certain municipalities. Another problem, seen by citizens, is the practical freedom of local self-government to determine urban areas, extending the area of urban areas and thus translating agricultural land into urban areas to increase the tax base and income for local self-government. There is a known case from a month ago in local self-government in the Novi Sad area, i.e. for Futoga, where it has been increased I do not know how many times the tax base for agricultural land, which is reduced by subsequent intervention of the City of Novi Sad Assembly. But that leads to another problem, agrarian, which is extremely significant. Local self-governments should not change urban areas, at least without an announcement of a change in these urban areas for the next ten years, because if farmers have stables in that area...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40047	You're bringing the end, colleague Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40048	... on the date of adoption of the document, they shall not have the right to raise livestock in those areas. Who's gonna build a barn... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40049	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40050	Thank you, Chairman. So this last question is really not the subject of this law, and as to whether it is possible to replace the term "non-governmental organisation", the term "unification", not that it is possible but mandatory, because of Article 2. The Law of Associations and this is, therefore, one terminology of that law, so it's not at all controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40051	Thank you. Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Chevarlich. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Damjanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40052	In our amendment, we asked for this bill to be deleted for a number of reasons. What did the practice show? Practice has shown that during the night, as the government is changing, created in the territories, I am now talking about Belgrade municipalities, new NGOs and that organisation, or what you want to call associations, are only used to pump up financial resources, money from municipalities and local self-government. There's a lot of talk here about everything that's missing from our city. Just seven kilometers from downtown Belgrade, you have settlements with no sewers, waternets and everything else, and then we look at how many in 17 Belgrade municipalities stand out for so-called. NGOs and their work, so the logical question is whether or not we have made progress and completed all our obligations, so now it is necessary to throw money at really some projects that are insignificant? On the other hand, we have through municipalities, as you know, committees. The board members are mostly council members. They are made up of councilmen, experts, and rarely citizens of the civil sector can participate. If committees are already formed, as we have for ecology and for many other things, and for that they are paid through the diaries, the question arises why finance people who come with insignificant projects? We haven't seen any of their successes on the ground. What, then, is the congregation and the committees and local self-government doing if we're going to donate some geniuses to finish certain jobs for their interests?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40053	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40054	I thank you, Chairman. First of all, the proposed amendment has tried to allow the Minister to assess whether this amendment really contributes to improving the quality of the law, in terms of its accuracy, or whether we should leave an existing solution as already normised in the draft of this law. What is commendable in any case is one newspaper, which is that finally, and this in the SPS Group is particularly imploding to us, that this ministry has proposed something that has so far not been the subject of systematisation in any legal act so far, and that through the co-operation of several units of local self-government, whether it is municipalities or cities, it is irrelevant that co-operation can also be achieved by establishing joint ventures, institutions or institutions. For the first time, we are in a position to finally resolve, and by the legal means, the status of enterprises established by several units of local self-government. Why am I saying this? Because we in the SPS Parliamentary Group were initiators to change the Law on Public Enterprises, to change the Law on Business Society, to sort of come up with a solution to finally regulate the status of so-called. regional enterprises, regional public enterprises, because in Serbia, we have not a small number, such as regional dumps in Uzic, Vranj, etc. I think that, Minister, in this sense, you have made an extraordinary progress and that in this direction this law has evolved in the best possible way. Why? Well, because we're finally coming up with a situation where multiple units of local self-government through founding acts, where they're clear founding status, are now municipalities, cities, etc., able to establish such an enterprise. We've never been able to find that way before in law enforcement. We didn't have a legal foothold, and then we asked questions that we asked specifically two years ago, the Minister of Industry, we got an answer – well, you have a foothold in the Law on Community Activities, which is absolutely not an adequate law and can in no case be tied to what is now regulated. I think you've managed in that direction to make a big step and that this law has now solved a question that has not been resolved for a long time, or has not been resolved in any way. Finally, since I have little time left from the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I just want to point out another fact that is also important, which is that through inter-municipal or inter-city co-operation more units of local self-government, many other problems will be solved, both communal and all those of which are of the greatest interest to meet the needs of citizens, because we are now entering a situation that we have not had, that municipalities or cities that have better capacities, greater resources, help those units of local self-government that do not have those resources, which do not have these capacities and thus meet the needs of citizens to the greatest extent possible. Let's say, the Trade or the Zagubovica, very small municipalities, have to resolve their issues when it comes to citizens' interests, and these problems cannot solve themselves, and then it's logical to rely on larger centres, those units of local self-government that have the opportunities to solve these problems. Indeed, it is only because of citizens one message that is very important. Anyway, all praise for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40055	Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Petronievich's, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40056	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which is on the agenda, the SPS, and the SPS parliamentary group, have given full support to this bill. Through several amendments, we have tried to make a contribution to further highlight the importance of these changes that are foreseen by amendments and additions to this law. The change relating to Article 3 of this Act is small, but it is a member of the 13th that complements this article, very significant. So the change is small and the meaning is great. Why? Because in fact, this Article 13 creates a legal opportunity to bring together more municipalities to co-operate, to join together, all to achieve common goals, plans, development programmes, etc., which my colleague Nedjo Jovanovic was already talking about. It is also our amendment that we have submitted highlights the legal possibility of joining and co-operation of several units of local self-government and forming different organisational forms and forms through which different regional facilities can be realized. In this regard, we give full support to the Proposer for this solution proposed by this law, which is, by the way, to point out, more specifically to the members of the 34th and 35th of this same law, which will only come into order, where procedures and co-operation and those relations between each other are elaborated in detail. Basically, that amendment we've submitted is not essential, it's a termological character. The essence of the implementation of the objectives in this area is in absolute agreement between us and the legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40057	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40058	The amendment of the SRS refers to finally realizing that there are organisations in Serbia that represent a roof structure over the association of municipalities and cities of Serbia. It is called the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Serbia. The NGO, as is basically defined, has always been the option of political manipulation. We have a recent example of, say, the president of the Paracino municipality, being at the head of the organization for a long time and taking advantage of that organization, or rather, using that organization for political manipulation. Just as an example, without any other intention, I point out that when it comes to association of municipalities should be very, very careful. It is not only on economic grounds, based on infrastructure, but there is also a political background and it needs to be taken into account. There is something very important, it is that with the government's control, i.e. the ministries are strictly signing these agreements on co-operation with municipalities abroad. The point is what we've been talking about these days, we Serbian radicals, that the law is strictly implemented and respected. Here we have a clear example in parliament, Meho Omerovic is a man who stole in Frankfurt, a pickpocket, a secikes, a matchmaker and no sanctions are taken as parliament. Perhaps we should examine ourselves in front of ourselves – is it more moral for us to sit in this House while the man who stole the airports sits?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40059	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. () Be sure to ask for a word only once. There's no need for more times. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40060	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, we have been discussing in particular the third day and we are only with the third member of this bill, which is, you will admit quite discouraging. I asked for the erasure of Article 2's position, which explains that units of local self-government are unable to monitor the process of European integration through their bodies, thus developing administrative capacities. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing laws and MPs are sorting out one area at a time in social life. They would all welcome me if these laws were an expression of the real need to improve and improve the position of people and institutions rather than agreeing with Europe, that they are a fruit of internal need and not of foreign inspiration. It also provides for local communities to strengthen, to bring their financial plans, but how when it is known that a large number of them do not have conditions even for the most basic needs of citizens. Meat communities don't feel. The promoter is counting on greater assistance from municipalities, both financially, materially, professionally administratively, technically, when we know that individuals in the local community don't even have a phone, let alone something else. The computers that we're not even talking about. The proposer was asked to follow the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia through units of local self-government, but also to develop administrative capacities. Maybe in this first part of the European part we'll go after the hand, but in this second part, it won't, which I'm more than sure about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40061	Thank you. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) Col. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40062	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on local self-government provides for the co-operation of local self-government with NGOs, and that is now with these changes and the addition of co-operation with associations, humanitarian organisations, as well as other organisations in the interest of local self-government and residents in this area. I have to admit it sounds very nice, but it's practically something else. On many occasions, I pointed out that the SRS has very serious and responsible access to the problems of national minorities and that members of the SRS are helping them solve their daily problems. The Roma Dawn Association, whose president I am, deals with many Roma issues. We have excellent lawyers in the association who receive Roma for certain days and give them free legal advice on the territory of Belgrade municipalities. I would also point out that the Roma Dawn Association organizes the so-called "Roma Dawn". workshops, in which preschool and school-aged children are working and helping them master their teaching content. I would also point out that with children, if I may say, children over 14 years of age, who left school early, worked on the description, because most of them were illiterate and we achieved significant results. We had a lot of ideas, as well as computer descriptors, but unfortunately, because of the lack of funds, we couldn't do many projects. We have competed, or we have applied for many projects, but unfortunately we have not received the funds, probably because the head of the association is someone who does not belong to the ruling majority, so it is not politically similar. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that the co-operation of local self-government and associations works by obtaining only those associations that are close to the authorities without working in the interests of the citizens of those local self-governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40063	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Despotovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40064	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, the SRS considers, when it comes to the Bill on Local Self-Government, that you did not foresee the prevention and abuse of budget spending. A drastic example of this is the compensation of the persons who come with medical beliefs, of the consequences of stray dogs' bites. Since the state cares so much about stray dogs, which I have no objection to, it should be more involved, along with local self-government and systemically solving the problems of abuse of citizens who illegally access certain funds. Actually, what's this about? Since citizens are truly suffering because of the free movement of stray dogs to the streets, which often harm citizens, individuals have come to realize that this can be a good source of income, so that local self-government, respecting the law, according to all these medical beliefs, has to do the same thing from the budgets annually sets out multimillion figures for that purpose. In poor municipalities with such a limited budget, the abuse of these funds is worrying. Citizens know it's a criminal conflict between resourceful individuals, lawyers, municipal lawyers, doctors, artists and courts. The Minister of Local Self-Government would urgently have to find a way to curb this criminal action and to use the money used in this way to address the social categories of citizens in the local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40065	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Milicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40066	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers, the respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is Article 3(3) and the proposal is for the amendment to be the following content, i.e. the amendment is the following: "The decision to establish co-operation or the conclusion of a co-operation agreement with the units of the local self-government of another state brings together the assembly of units of local self-government, with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". The original bill states: “Station 2. - units of local self-government can co-operate with units of local self-government of other states within the external policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect to territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution and the law," which is absolutely not controversial. Article 3 of the electoral proposal states: "The decision to establish co-operation or the conclusion of a co-operation agreement with the unit of the local self-government of another state shall be taken by the assembly of the local self-government unit, with the consent of the government. “ We just wanted to further specify the provision of this article – with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the amendment stipulates that a local self-government unit can make a decision to establish co-operation, i.e. the conclusion of an agreement on co-operation with local self-government units of another country, it is absolutely not controversial, with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment more precisely states that this decision by the unit of local self-government must follow before the units of local self-government make a certain decision. Otherwise, once again, we fully support what is foreseen by the amendments and additions of this law, which is intermunicipal co-operation with regard to trust and original affairs, on the basis of which more municipalities and cities will be able to organise themselves on the joint performance of certain tasks, which will certainly be in the interest of the citizens of both municipalities or both cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40067	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40068	Thank you. I'm reporting for the amendment, even though it's a little anyone who's probably following and knows where we are. This is actually a very good amendment and proof that not all the proposals we from the opposition are criticizing, but I don't think it's a good thing that colleagues from the ruling majority are submitting amendments to the clean order, or at least a large part of them, and then those who are serious somehow sink, get lost in that forest. So, just to clarify about the proposal, and I don't think the Ministry has any reason not to adopt it, and it's that there's still a little bit more to ensure or prevent or reduce the possibility or danger that units of local self-government actually make deals, agreements with other cities, municipalities in other countries, and that they don't really have the consent of the republican authorities, or government, but especially in some sensitive, national-mixed, but they don't even have to be national-mixed environments, sometimes these agreements can directly or indirectly violate the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state of Serbia. I say, it is a danger, an opportunity that needs to be pre-warned by what counterpart Milicevic has suggested. I am always in favour of strengthening local self-government, local self-government and the return and resources and competence of local self-government to take responsibility for local self-government when it comes to many issues, especially in regulating the lives of citizens in the local region and especially in the case of funding of locals and local self-government. But when it comes to this, international agreements, agreements, etc., there is no such place as volunteerism and relativisation. There is no reason why such a kind of agreement, an agreement, and it is not often, does not form a municipality of countless, hundreds and dozens of agreements with other local self-government abroad, therefore there is no reason why the procedure does not go exactly as this amendment proposes, therefore, with the prior consent and approval of the republican authorities, and not just like this in a milder formation, as is currently proposed in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40069	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is from a colleague, Nikolic Vukajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40070	Thank you. Yesterday I spoke briefly about this Law on Local Self-Government and it is a really short time for anything to say or develop as a dialogue or discussion, and it is a very serious law and it is a law that should be really spoken of. What I want to ask the Minister of Local Self-Government is – does he really believe that everything that is written is even applicable in our country, that is, in our local self-government? If he believes this is applicable, let's keep talking about this. If he knows this isn't applicable, and he knows it's not applicable, why have we ever wasted this much time on this one law and only on the first three members, and we have how many laws that we might have had to talk more seriously about? Now tell me, Mr. Minister, why are you setting us up with laws like this that are inadmissible? They're really inapplicable right now. You're preparing us for another time, and we don't have any other time, but this is where we live now. I ask you nicely - what do Serbian citizens have from this law? Just tell me what's new and tell me on a specific case what will be new where the citizen will wonder what will be done in his local self-government? Come on, tell me. Don't tell me, tell it to the citizens of Serbia. I personally know from my experience that for a long time citizens will not question anything in this country Serbia, nor in local self-government, nor in local communities, except local activists of political parties who are in power, and there, these local public activists where they have a larger electoral body, a number of people worth investing in communals, lighting etc. What does our people think? He thinks it's a big deal, and in fact, it's his elemental human right. What are you guys doing all the time? How can I say, I mean, you make fools of us, as simple as possible. Let the public apologize, but that's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40071	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40072	I thank you, Chairman. I am advocating Article 27 on Article 107 of the Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Me and my colleagues in the SPS parliamentary group want us to believe that the previous speaker had the best intention when she pointed to any problems in the law that we honestly don't see, but it's a way to address a minister, that the minister is making fools MPs, an absolutely inappropriate way of treating this Parliament. I think that's where you were supposed to react, although I repeat, I am convinced that there was no evil intention whatsoever towards the minister or any of his associates, but the communication of this species is still not acceptable to this home. That's why I advertised Article 107, so I'm asking you to keep that in mind, because still, when the ministers come here, they're not the clay pigeons we're gonna fire shots to get them to comment on the way we want them to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40073	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word has a National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40074	Thank you. To explain the reality better, I really apologized to both the public and the minister and my colleagues on the expression that really came to me as the best at the moment. So don't mind me saying that, but I'm asking you to take what I'm talking about very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40075	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40076	Comrade Arsic, I have reported to you under Rule 116, but I now warn you of Article 27 that you must take care of the order in which you give the MPs a word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure and that the MP could say anything he could say to the other People's Parliament, as well as the minister. There was nothing offensive about being a MP, not just as a colleague of the "species" said earlier, because this is a pay phone here, and a colleague is a MP, so it's offensive, too, if we're watching who's expressing themselves right now. There was nothing offensive. Yes, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are trying to make fools of the MPs and the public of Serbia because they are pushing what is not in the interest of the Serbian citizens, because, here, through local self-government they are trying to push the EU...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40077	A colleague of Radeta's...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40078	Please, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40079	... You can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40080	How exactly can I not? My throat hurts, but I have a problem. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40081	You cannot say, however, that the ministers and the government of the Republic of Serbia are trying to make fools of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40082	Come on, I'll do it differently. Ministers and the government of the Republic of Serbia deceive Serbian citizens, let us discuss and you adopt laws that are unconstitutional. It is unconstitutional to give local self-government the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and whatever expression I should use for such a minister and for such a government is just a compliment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40083	The word has Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40084	I thank you for these compliments. In any case, really laws, not ministers, but those people who run various sectors in the ministries, above all assistants who work with their teams to write the law, the urgency is not really that we discredit, degrade, deceive anyone in any way. You're voting the laws, not us as ministers. So, the MPs vote as representatives of the legitimacy, bearers of the country's sovereignty, and these are citizens. You sit in this house and it's your right to vote as you wish. As far as this particular law is concerned, we want a better application of the Institute of Direct Democracy. It's something concrete. We're making it for this time. We don't make it for a while. We're making it right this time. We want to make time for what has been shown in practice, such as local communities that have not functioned in a better way. I guess that's for this time. It's no big deal. Is it disputed if we want a more efficient work of the municipalities? I don't see why that would be controversial. If we say that 24 hours is a minimum time to call a session, so that there is no abuse that has occurred, is that better or worse than what was the practice? I think it's better. Also, the number of members of the council, the number of assistants of the president of municipalities or mayors we introduced in line with the scale of the number of inhabitants in municipalities, and I think that this also leads to one rationalisation, optimization and elimination of what was, in some ways, political abuse in order to house some officials. I think that's good, too, and it's not bad. You certainly have the right to say that it's not good, that we might want to deceive you in that way. Our intention, to be honest, was not to deceive you, nor do I really blame you on the dictionary. You have the right to speak in this house whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40085	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40086	Of course, thank you for your generosity, Mr. Rose. Yes, of course we have the right to say whatever we want. You do, too, but the bottom line is that you have to propose what is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Is this the time, the time, the time of the future, it's a matter of vision, it's a matter of thinking, it's a matter of political attitude, but whatever your position must be framed in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow anyone to run foreign policy other than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we're asking of you. You boast that this law has changed that a session of the assembly cannot be scheduled within 24 hours. Is that some big progress? This is also a disaster. It stands well – does not refer to an emergency, do not give God war status etc. Which trouble can force the ruling majority in a municipality to schedule a session 24 hours before the beginning, and that happens to us in the National Assembly. It's just a matter of abuse. It's just a matter of not getting the council together on time. It's just that the council doesn't have time to order material. That's not good. You should have said, if it wasn't for a state of emergency, that a session couldn't be scheduled in less than a week, then it would be some kind of change and some serious approach. So, everything sounds nice, but it's essentially not good, as it's not good, Minister, you boasted earlier that it remains a ban on employment. It's not good. You can't ban employment from profiling some of the services. When we ask you where the labour inspectors are, you don't have enough inspectors. When we ask where the education inspectors are, there's not enough of them. Where are these, those inspectors, they're not enough, a small number covers the entire territory of the state. We understand that, but why do you limit the number of jobs where there really is a need to increase the number? You buy both a hat and a fist, and who meets the conditions, and who doesn't meet the conditions, the occasional, temporary contract, you throw dust in the eyes, you stain the eyes of the people with this story that you can't hire, and in every segment you lack an inspection to cover the territory from working relationships, inspectors, income management, market etc. So do not limit the number of jobs, or allow that possibility, but make sure that it is in the interest of performing a job in the jurisdiction of a particular ministry, or local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40087	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40088	Well, you know how, if this is the kind of answer that we got from the minister of local self-government, specifically now that Ruzic got from someone who happened to come to the minister, then I could believe that he really believes what he's saying. But since we know who Mr. Ruzic is, and he's been involved for so many years in the surrounding authorities and he's been making these local coalitions and he knows exactly how everything works, it's a little bit, how can I tell you, somehow not to use something rough, but it's a little bit to believe that he doesn't understand this. Here, if he wants me to totally convince him, that's how it is. You are in the national programme for the adoption of legal flows of the EU on 1 March 2018, in fact, that national programme was revised for the third time, and it is exactly everything. I am going to ask you now - are you that the EU has only one condition, and that is the rule of law without a solution to the KIM issue, if you would join the EU according to their estimates that you have really introduced the rule of law in the country of Serbia? Never, because you don't have negotiators for such a thing, because you don't take our real situation, you don't take our real life into account when you're going to negotiate and I ask you to change those negotiators so that we can really and really pass valid and quality laws. There are good laws in the EU, but only if they are properly applied to our social reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40089	Right on line, Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40090	Thank you. So I really don't have a mandate to negotiate with the EU. I think it is quite qualified, quality works by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic and the head of the negotiating team Tanja Miscevic. I've had these experiences, too, not that I haven't, and I think Serbia really works very hard in this field, quite realistically and in the interests of citizens and citizens. As far as the alleged employment ban is concerned, I'd say it's rationalization. I didn't mention the employment ban, I said rationalization and optimization. This rationalisation does not exclusively provide for a ban on employment, and the two laws that deal with these issues and the laws that have been passed in this house again, I repeat, oblige us to apply - the Law on the Budgetary System and the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the public sector and we hope, and knock on the open door of Mrs Radet, that from next year on, we will be in a position to rationalise, rather than ban employment, implement this more liberal model. I agree with you, and you knock on the open door, therefore, constitutional jurisdiction is the conduct of foreign policy, but this member is talking about local self-governments leading foreign policy, rather than following the process of European integration in terms of timely information on what is going on, and this is about a chapter of twenty-one where local self-government is interested. I guess it's logical that those who are committees, people's representatives, representatives of citizens in local self-government are involved in this process and that they go to meet these things, not to stick their heads in the sand, to forget about everything else and as a leg not to see what's going on in their midst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40091	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Col. Stojkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40092	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, are really better implemented by the Institute of Direct Democracy, but also by greater involvement of the public and citizens. It will all change this law, we will actually achieve more effective work than our municipalities and cities. In addition to the reform of our local communities and the relations of local communities with the units of local self-government, the changes will also concern strengthening mutual co-operation. How important inter-municipal co-operation is, examples from Belgrade, the co-operation of three city municipalities, the Barajevo municipality, the Sopot municipality and Vozdovac municipality. When these three municipalities are agreed, we can build our local roads faster, connect them to regional and state roads, connect them and get a connection with the Ibar highway. It's about building a road section that's currently being realized, it's part of the road Parcane, Parcanski vis, Guberevac, Barajev, Ripanj, which goes out on the Ibar highway. My municipality, the municipality from which I come from, the municipality of Rakovica has good co-operation with the municipality of Voždovac and the joint forces of these two municipalities, two city municipalities in Belgrade are working on the construction of sewers and a fecal collector "Jelazovac" that will finally solve the problem of the citizens of Miljakovac Tri and Sunčani banks. At the very end, as a member of the Committee on European Integration, I want to point out the following – we must all work together in the locale to bring the process of European integration closer to our citizens, our associations, but also to all those actors and organisations involved in the process of European integration, not only to absorb EU funds, but to make our citizens feel the benefits of these integrations.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40093	The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40094	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The Law on Local Self-Government in order to further encourage local self-government to contribute to the realisation of projects that are vital to all citizens of cities and municipalities, but to improve the quality of life of all citizens by launching the initiative. On the one hand, what has been achieved over the past period is very important, and these are reforms that have been implemented and achieved political and economic stability. It is certain that the results achieved by the Republic of Serbia have been seen and recognized and appreciated in the world and have improved the reputation enjoyed by the Republic of Serbia among other countries. By meeting these key preconditions, policy change has created opportunities to start the development of all our cities, all our municipalities, all our districts that have long been neglected and simply invest in all our districts in a fair way, especially those underdeveloped. It's a thought-out, domestic business, a thoughtful and responsible attitude of the state towards all cities and municipalities, and that's certainly what's been missing over the past few years, and what's cost us a lot. On the other hand, local self-governments must be ready and able to carry out and prepare all projects, to propose initiatives in agreement with citizens, to propose what will be done by priority, in order to improve any segment of life that is vital to all citizens. It is certain that the climate is changing, that our local self-government is working much better with the Republic and that all projects that are being implemented throughout the Republic of Serbia are talking about it. Only Trieste is now doing quite serious projects and renovating and making new infrastructures when it comes to roads, when it comes to the water network, and that is certainly what is crucial and what the previous authorities certainly did not have in their plan and did not consider it appropriate to do. It is about rebuilding schools, institutions, homes of health, and this amendment is precisely in this direction to encourage and strengthen this co-operation and the relationship of local self-government towards projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40095	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lakotosh, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40096	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, ministers with associates, the process of European integration is a very complex job, extremely responsible and of particular interest and importance for the Republic of Serbia, its progress and overall development. More than 60% of European legislation is applied locally, and for this reason it is necessary for our municipalities and cities to become familiar with their obligations, but also to take care of the capacities and capabilities of local self-government in Serbia. Local self-government must have sufficient institutional, administrative, financial and technical capacity to successfully implement EU standards locally, indicating the need for reforms in local self-government. It is very important that we strengthen and develop administrative capacities in local self-government on the path of Eurointegration in order to be ready to implement changes planned as a result of integration. An amendment which I have submitted to Article 3 to amend Article 13. The law on local self-government further defines the proactiveity of the local self-government unit. The opening of the Office for Local Economic Development, the creation of projects for the Pre-accession Funds of the Municipality of Stara Paz, has made a significant step towards progress, and has provided more than 500 000 euros from European funds for the implementation of three projects, both from the area of economy and development and social protection. Stara Pazova, as one of the most developed municipalities that exceeds the level of municipal planning, would gain even better conditions for attracting investors. The co-operation and implementation of projects with developed European cities would be much more certain, and this would not only affect the quality of life of the citizens of Stara Paz, of course, and the overall development of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40097	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40098	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government in order to explain how the pro-activity of local self-government units affects better funding of social institutions. Namely, by coming to power, for the first time in Serbia, we will introduce an integrated system of making social cards through the integration of a large number of different institutions, above all, the Tax Administration, the MUP, the Immobilities Catalogue, etc., and in line with the best positive examples of world practice. The introduction of this system prevents abuse and will allow for fairer distribution, by providing social assistance to those users who really need it. Thanks to the SNS and its president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, for the first time, all the families receive one-off aid of 10,000 dinars for each newborn child, while socially-inflicted families receive an additional 25,000 dinars regardless of the number of children. This type of aid is now receiving 14,000 new mothers, unlike in 2013, when the number was four times smaller, only 3,500 mothers. Also, over the past three years, the city of Belgrade has been homely taken care of by 209 families of internally displaced persons, while in the framework of a regional housing programme for refugee care, 925 more refugee families will be taken care of. This means that over 1,200 families will get a roof over their heads, solving the decades - old problem and injustice that has been done to these people. Today, personal escort services have been using more than 350 children free of charge since 2016, thanks to SNS and its coalition partners, while the mission by 2016 was impossible. Three-day stays for children with developmental disorders have been renovated, expanded, an object has been built, can serve 50 users.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40099	You're bringing the end of my colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40100	One more sentence, a facility opens on Starry, one of the most significant, children's shelter after 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40101	National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Tomašević Damnjanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40102	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill, which adds a new position to Article 3 -- the proactiveness of the local self-government unit provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of judicial institutions. Improving the quality of justice efficiency in order to strengthen the rule of law, democracy, legal certainty, bringing justice closer to citizens and restoring citizens to the justice system is of paramount importance for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The process of development of the Republic of Serbia is present in all areas of our society, because we seek to live in a modern, normal and decent state, and we can only achieve this by effort and work. The state of Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing a lot when it comes to reforming all areas of society, including the sphere of justice, and in addition the fact that much has been invested in the construction and adaptation of judicial bodies throughout Serbia. This allows better space for the work of judicial authorities and for the provision of services to citizens. New regulations have been introduced, new laws have been passed, new work systems have been introduced. The state has shown its willingness to respond to citizens' demands for respect for the rule of law and an independent, impartial, responsible and effective judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40103	Thank you. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40104	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, today I will talk about funding local self-government and importance, so not only budget financing, but also project financing of local self-government. Local self-governments use budget transfers based on different foundations and the development of local self-government depends not only on these funds coming from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What I would point out is precisely the use of project funds, so the funds that local self-government receive from applications based on various projects of the Ministry, and I would stress above all the importance for the development of local self-government, if there are developed project teams and if there is one interest by local self-government for these funds. As an example, I will first of all give the municipality from which I come, this is the Municipality of Prokuplje, which has managed to provide funds for the construction of a new market, so to speak. The small market in Prokuplje is being transferred to a completely different location, and the project is being financed by the Ministry of Economy in the first part and by the Ministry of Local Administration the second part of this project. It is a project that is very important for the local community, so for the population of the Municipality of Prokuplje, because the location of that market is the present thing that creates problems in traffic, creates problems and is related to the health regularity of foods, because it is not equipped with adequate facilities, nor with storage devices, and in this way will be solved in the long term by a very important problem. I would also stress the importance of using funds from the Office for Local and Economic Development and these funds are particularly important, I will highlight the project of the hospital, the rehabilitation of educational, or school facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40105	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Fellow Jevtović Vukojičić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40106	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, the process of European integration is the strategic definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia and certainly that on this path and how active local self-government should be. I will continue to talk about the protection of vulnerable social groups and will refer to my predecessor, MP Ljiljana Malusic, who spoke about social responsibility and socially responsible Belgrade City policy and municipalities in Belgrade, primarily the Vozdovac Municipality, when it comes to the protection of vulnerable social groups. I must point out that since the arrival of SNS, the attitude towards socially vulnerable categories has improved not only in the City of Belgrade, but this relationship has been improved and as far as other cities in the Republic of Serbia are concerned. I would like to cite the socially responsible relationship of the Municipality of Priboj when it comes to protecting the most vulnerable social groups and providing services that, in any case, contribute to the quality of their lives. First of all, I would point out that the Municipality of Priboj provides funding for five services that concern improving the quality of life, first of all, old people, then persons who need home assistance services, then children with developmental disorders, then persons who have suffered from child cerebral paralysis, and in the area of the Municipality of Priboj, there is also a shelter for victims of domestic violence, especially children and not violent parents, and I must point out that this shelter is only in the southwestern part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40107	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40108	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in recent years, there has been a tendency across the world that governments in the countries give great freedom to local authorities to spend money and raise extra capital. Most municipalities and cities of Western Europe solve problems by broadcasting their own securities of value, most often by broadcasting ammunition bonds. The role of local self-government is to identify projects and provide professionals with experience in implementing such projects. Examples of use of such means can be long-term, among other things used to finance projects to protect the environment or renewable energy sources. Local self-government authorities are able to obtain the necessary funds to invest in local infrastructure and other projects through the issue of municipal bonds, and this type of securities is very often high-ranked by investors, given the relatively low risk of default by the issuer. local self-government. Municipal bonds can be issued to finance projects that do not yield income, projects that yield revenue and cover budget deficits for local self-government. There are no legal obstacles to this kind of project financing at all, and the only reasons why this is not done is indifference and ignorance. According to previous experience, the municipality was in debt only to business banks, taking short-term loans to overcome the problems of current payments. Only five local self-government capital projects are funded by the broadcasting of securities of value and that is Novi Sad, Šabac, Stara Pazova, Pančevo, and the Književci municipality announced entry into this business. Local self-government must ask citizens what they want to build or reconstruct, and then, with careful planning, the budget is projected...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40109	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40110	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs of the Amendment to Article 3 is a logical continuation of what I have proposed to the amendments to Article 3. 1st and 2nd of the proposal of this law, since the functioning of local self-government is of exceptional importance to the efficiency of the judiciary. In the previous period, during the rule of the DS, we were witnesses not only of the irresponsible, but also of the criminal relationship of the people headed by local self-government, especially according to the funds of local self-government. That's how we all know, for example. for a debt of four billion dinars, for which former President of Smederjevska Palanka Municipality, Radoslav Milojic Kena owed his municipality. Milojic, who is otherwise a prominent populist who only when the opposition advocates the right of citizens, left behind the following financial situation on 30.9.2016 in his municipality. The public company Palanka Development had a debt of 7.825,000 dinars on outstanding earnings, on severances and jubilee awards of 635,000 dinars. The total debt of this company was over 380 million dinars. The archive "Veroslava Veljašević" on 30.9. had outstanding earnings of 11.700,000 dinars and total debt of 15.039.000 dinars. The Preschool Institute "Chika Jova Zmaj" on the basis of outstanding earnings owed to employees close to 35 million dinars, based on transportation for employees of nearly 850,000 dinars, an 800,000 dinar-based obligation. The total debt of this facility was about 93 million dinars. The culture centre for unpaid earnings owed employees close to 20 million dinars, owed around 900,000 dinars for the transport of employees, and total debt was about 27 million dinars. The public company Palanka owed about 25 million dinars for unpaid profits, transportation for employees over half a million dinars, totaled more than 43 million. The public utility of the market, greenery and cleanliness on outstanding earnings owed over 27 million dinars, totaling over 37 million dinars. The municipal tourist organisation owed 18 million dinars for unpaid earnings, transportation for employees over 1,200,000 dinars. The total debt was over 24 million dinars. This list is extremely long and only talks about how the presidents of municipalities who did so in front of the DS treated their citizens, treated public sector employees and all of this tells us of how important it is for the functioning of local self-government the efficiency of the judiciary that should end the judicial proceedings within a reasonable period of time and that justice would, above all, be served, and responsible for all these and other similar things would be sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40111	Thank you. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40112	Thank you, Chairman. At this turbulent time when we've been put on many tests how we're going to deal with constant attacks by migrants, how we're going to reform our financial system, how we're being arranged for health care, education, and when we're taking care of KIM status and we're parallelly strengthening the military, its structures, the police are punishing all violations regardless of who committed the offence, we finally get the outlines of a safer and well-organized country. We won't embarrass ourselves when someone from the environment comes to visit us. We have a situation at the time that some marginal factors are holding demonstrations, protesting, making it impossible for my fellow citizens to live a normal life. It's ugly that they send a bad picture of our cities, of our mentality, it's false gentlemen, and they certainly do not represent the mentality of my people, but only 3 to 5% of voters. I'm sure in the next election it won't be like that. Therefore, they will not create the will of the people in the streets and in an artificial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40113	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ana Karadzic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40114	I thank the chairman. And to Article 3. I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on local self-government that highlights the need for modernisation. I think that amendment has its place absolutely in this bill of law and that it continues directly to the government's intensities when it comes to digitization. Of course, this law will bring many benefits when it comes to better functioning of local self-government and when it comes to greater involvement of citizens in the decision-making process, especially when it comes to the preparation of the budget and to what the SNS strongly advocates, which is that municipalities in Serbia become a service of citizens in the right sense of the word. We have pointed out in previous debate on several occasions and positive examples, and indeed there are many in Serbia when it comes to the functioning of local self-government, but we have also highlighted those negative examples and my colleague Torbica has recently presented negative examples, when it comes to the functioning of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality during the period when DS ruled the municipality. I personally pointed out on several occasions how the Vračar City Municipality functioned while the same DS unfortunately managed these municipalities years ago. We still have in Serbia today, unfortunately, an example that exceeds all the achievements of the DS, which is the municipality of Paracin and the Paracina despot, as the citizens of Paracina call it, Sasa Paunovic of the DS that destroys the municipality persistently. I think that in the future we should work to find ways to increase responsibility for the exercise of power in local self-government, just so that we don't come into this situation that one party or one man by his own leadership of a local self-government, in this case the Paracino municipality completely destroys that municipality. I'm sure the Paramedics in the next election will be able to sanction something like that adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40115	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40116	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia led a responsible economic policy in the previous period, reducing irrational consumption, bureaucracy and all other unnecessary costs, all in order to encourage economic growth, economic development, employment and investment. Well, according to that, I've submitted the amendment. It is the draft law, which is on the agenda, that is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, which refers to reducing the number of jobs, which means optimising the number of jobs as regards the number of members of the municipal council and the number of assistants of the president of the municipality. So we continue to reduce unnecessary consumption and unreal consumption, and we channel the funds for infrastructure projects, and thus attract investors and create new jobs. As I come from Toplici County, I point out that the first government to recognise the importance of building a highway in southern Serbia, the government of incumbent President Aleksandr Vukic, and the project has led to the beginning of the realization and we expect the start of the project in the construction of the E80 highway in the second half of 2018, Ms Ana Brnabic continued. In fact, it is very important for the citizens of Toplico County, Prokuplja, Blaca, Kursumli and Žitoraj, not only will the E80 highway connect the Adriatic with Bulgaria and Romania, then Turkey with the EU, Serbia with Albania, but it will be a very important project to attract all investors, because we are reducing the costs of purchases, i.e. the costs of transport which are dependent on the purchase of materials and the costs of providing services. Congratulations to the government of the Republic of Serbia for its exhaustive work and effort, because everything we do is done for the benefit of Serbia's citizens and for our better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40117	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40118	I thank the chairman. My amendment refers to Article 3 which I believe should be added and fully justified that the harmonisation relating to the Law on Local Self-Government and Associations and when we talk about European Integrations should be put on the Agenda 2030, precisely because European integration and civil society, which now involve more actively in the work of local self-government, are an integral part of this Agenda, and especially in its 17 objectives, between the 17 sustainable development objectives relating to partnership, the objectives and the consolidation of the funds for the implementation of the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development. What local self-government, our cities and municipalities achieve is, above all, that the greater absorption by EU projects with local self-government, when we talk about projects implemented in local self-government itself by all authorities, local authorities, shows the essence that what the state of Serbia needs is a better, greater and stronger development of local economies, local activities, increased activation, and this is best seen in examples such as the IPARD programme. This is otherwise an EU programme and European funds for the financing of farmers, or associations of agricultural producers, which together with local self-government and all relevant local-level entities really need to raise one level of funding for farmers and producers and processors. This has given us opportunities for last year that the state has singled out support for the development of the IPARD programme, while IPARD itself has given 175 million EU grants. Then, we have projects of cross-border co-operation with Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, where indeed cities located in border areas, such as Dimitrovgrad, Bor, Negotin and Subotica, have had opportunities to benefit directly as local self-government from these projects. Then, environmental protection projects, which the state of Serbia has done with the help of the EU and its funds, such as the Uzice dump, such as the Pyrot medical waste management system, indeed demonstrates that you have put this kind of change and supplementation into this Article 4 because it gives us practically one big wind in the back to strengthen capacities in local self-government itself, people who are able to implement EU projects, and thus also the state and ministry, which deal with certain areas, give their full capacity and support to local self-government for the realisation of such projects. Indeed, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the right to say that we are now on one path to progress and to go ahead of all the countries of the region and the Western Balkans and that we are truly the best not only on the basis of these results, but that this did not stop us on that path of progress, but only these results that we have achieved so far can we move on. Of course, there are always certain obstacles on this road, but I think it is very important that these amendments to the law and such an amendment that I have proposed, we really find a way that Serbia will go safely and the path that is really rare because, when you have big problems and on this path, together with citizens, participate in local self-government, then we have reason to be satisfied because the results we achieve really support Serbian citizens, and not only in the elections that were, but in any subsequent elections, that the SNS will recognise as a party that really has a chance to bring Serbia into the EU within the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40119	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Olivera Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40120	Dear Chairman, local self-government units should be proactive, i.e. they should show courage, initiative and move forward with the policy led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a policy of overall development, so my amendment goes that way. I was in the town of Leskovac, as a case of a proactive unit of local self-government, speaking. I was talking about the fact that the citizens of Leskovec and the economy of Leskovec still have the opportunity to say in 2012 what it is that the city of Leskovec needs to be built. I was talking about the city council adopting three-month reports on the work of public enterprises and these reports being published on the Leskovec city site. When we took responsibility for the management of the city in 2012 in Leskovec, all development institutions in the city of Leskovac were blocked, all local community accounts were blocked, almost all schools in the territory of the city were blocked, the Youth Fund was shut down, and the debt of the two billion dinars we inherited was 70% of the value of the city's 2012 budget, Leskovec. Unfortunately for me, I do not have enough time to list everything, since the SNS was in power, in Leskovec was done from 2012 to today, but it is obvious that the citizens of Leskovec are satisfied with the work of SNS and satisfied with the work of Mayor Leskovec Goran Cvetanović, because they told us in the 2016 elections. That's what hurts colleagues across the street, because the people of Leskovci believe Mayor Goran Cvetanovic and SNS as well. As a result, the mayor of Leskovec is a rare subject in this parliament, as opposition MPs are used by all means to bring down the reputation of the SNS and to bring down the reputation of SNS representatives at the site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40121	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40122	Dear Chairman, we are increasingly hearing that the success requires proactiveness, and that those who are distinguished by this feature quickly arrive at success. The proposal for this law allows the statute of the municipality to stipulate that for certain areas such as economic development, urbanism, primary health care or environmental protection, agriculture is appointed as assistants of municipalities. The assistant president of the municipality shall appoint and dismiss the assistant, or the president of the municipality, shall appoint and dismiss the president of the municipality. The municipality's assistants launch initiatives, propose projects and draw up opinions on issues of importance for development in the areas for which they are appointed and do other tasks under the authority of the president of the municipality. By means of a proactive policy, the assistant president of the municipality can focus on trying to have as many small and medium-sized enterprises as possible and thus directly affect the reduction of unemployment in his municipality and increase economic growth, not only in his municipality, but also in the Republic itself. In 2012, we found stolen municipalities where nothing was done or built, so citizens need to know that these frauds should not be trusted and let them take our fates into their hands again. They're nervous, they're not good at hand, they're not good at all of the lies or any of the delusions they're using these days, but that's why they're here at the head of this country's beautiful SNS with their president, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40123	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40124	Thank you, Chairman. The intensity of my amendment is to point out the need to fight corruption in local self-government. Otherwise, Article 13 of the basic law defines entities with which local self-governments co-operate, but also ways and areas and co-operation. It is clear, however, that without such cooperation and activities in local self-government there is no better quality of citizens living in these same local self-governments. However, if these activities and cooperation are directed exclusively at criminal or corrupt activities and in order to gain personal privileges, it is difficult to talk about any quality of life for citizens, let alone something better. The municipalities of Paracin and Smederjevska Palanka are an example. You have the dysfunction of local self-government, the blockade of public enterprises, the multi-month non-payment of profits, and some developmental component in these local self-governments, and we're not talking. However, if activities and co-operation are aimed at helping the better lives of citizens in this local self-government, then you have a case such as Subotica, where you have a serious and developmental component, despite the regular functioning of local self-government. It is an example of the revitalisation of Lake Palic, where, with the help of the mayors, the president of the state and the government of the Republic of Serbia, it was provided through this co-operation, a serious 6.5m-euro donation from Germany's KFV Bank for the revitalisation of Palic. I have to thank them publicly for that now. It is one of the crucial key issues for Subotica and Palic, and also to praise the efforts of both the government and the president in the field. It is my amendment, I say, that one support team and such processes in the Republic of Serbia and in Subotica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40125	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. Thank you. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40126	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment I have submitted to Article 3 refers to staff resources in local self-government and adds to my amendment a new position defining the additional activity of local self-government, which is otherwise required by the affirmation of human and human resources. Certainly local self-government, when it comes to human resources, has different chances. I think the university is the creator of personnel and that the municipalities that have universities in their cities, or colleges, are in a better position. Then what is there to do? First, local self-governments that do not have universities and universities in their cities, i.e. municipalities, need to constantly work with the ministry to train employees in local self-governments, and this is a short-term solution, and it is long-term that young people studying in other cities, that they return to their environments after completing their studies, and that the state is affecting their conditions as much as possible. The second thing that is very important for the affirmation of personnel in local self-government is the co-operation of local self-government with the market. It must absolutely be taken into account that local self-government at the time of the labour market delivers information that is necessary for the development of their municipalities, or cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40127	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40128	Thank you, Chairman. When we talk about local self-government, things are completely clear even to laymen. Local self-government is managed successfully only if it is treated domestically, only if the relationship of those in power towards the local administration and everything it represents is domestic. The difference between former authorities who previously led local self-governments in Serbia and local self-government today, where the majority of SNS cases are in power, is precisely in this household relationship that is recognizable in every city, in every major city in Serbia, in every local self-government. We simply can't forget how at that time the rule of the yellow government had cleaned up the state register and devastated Serbia, we can't forget how the party of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Sasa Jankovic, even though she was hiding fine, was getting rich at the expense of the citizens. We wonder how it is possible that in Serbia they were all poor then, only Dragan Gilas was able to enrich and acquire companies, agencies, villas, a quarter of public service advertising space and who knows what else. He then boasted that he successfully managed a local self-government, the largest in the country, the city of Belgrade, and right in the capital, the situation was never worse than when it was ruled by a "yellow company", thanks to businessman and manager Dragan Gilas, who put a noose on the citizens' neck, borrowing us from loans that unfortunately will have to be paid by our grandchildren. If someone has forgotten, we are not, the rule of the "yellow company", because how is it possible to forget so much crime and corruption that at the time have plagued Belgrade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40129	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40130	Thank you. Public administration reform and local self-government is the most important aspect of the Eurointegration process and local government is closest to citizens. Reforms carried out at local level can be felt directly. Both municipalities and cities provide the highest number of services needed for citizens, services directly affecting the quality of their lives. The Exchange 5 Programme, financed by the IPA of European Union funds, has planned to support the improvement of municipal services in asset management for at least 20 cities and municipalities that fall within the category of undeveloped. This is the first component of this Exchange 5 programme, and the second component is support for planning and programming at the local site, which provides technical support for 12 local self-government. The process of broader public finance management reform puts emphasis on setting priorities and optimising consumption, with a view to achieving economic growth and efficient quality of public administration services. The three-year programme, which began last year, is projected to be a total of 4.45m euros. In this way, I want not only to point out the benefits of local self-government since the accession process to the European Union, but also to invite representatives of local self-government to apply for these funds, to use the funds from these programmes. The previous Exchange 4 programme was available to us with 5.8m euros, which we used correctly. The aim of all these reforms is to strengthen the municipalities and cities' administrative capacities, to develop their full potential to bring them additional revenue and thus to be less dependent on the funds they receive from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40131	Thank you, colleague Markovic. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Dusko Tarbuk submitted to the nations. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's MP Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40132	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, I would like to propose an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending Article 13. The Law on Local Self-Government, added item 3 – Proactiveness of the units of local self-government ensures overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the efficiency of local self-government. The effectiveness of local self-government is reflected in its desire to take control, accountability and efficiency of decision-making decisions by local self-government and to be seen through the level of responsibility of the authorities. Local self-government as the authority of the state administration to which citizens and businesses are directly addressed, it is necessary to be capable, efficient and professional. What we want is a proactive local self-government that will serve citizens, hence, the domestic better work of local self-government and greater participation of citizens in decision-making. Some of them include the wider public in the law enforcement process, strategic and other documents and public policies, as well as encouraging citizens to launch an initiative of importance for their environment. I think this set of laws is going towards decentralisation, which we all here, of course, want, because it's our citizens' wish in Serbia. I went into the Ministry's site and looked at this brochure, and everyone who wants to look at it and find out what we're talking about here in parliament can help a lot. So, in the day of the vote, I ask my respected and respected colleagues to support this law. Of course, if they have the strength and the time and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40133	Thank you. Members of the 3rd Amendment were submitted by the peoples by MP Nikola Jolovic.. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40134	Thank you, Chairman. Local self-government units shall co-operate and cooperate to achieve common objectives, plans and development programmes, as well as other needs of common interest and for their implementation may pool funds and educate joint bodies, enterprises, institutions and other organisations and services in accordance with the law and statutes. Also, units of local self-government can co-operate with local self-government units of other countries, within the framework of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect to unity and legal order of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The decision to establish co-operation, i.e. the conclusion of a co-operation agreement with the local self-government unit of another country, shall be taken by the Assembly of the local self-government unit, with the consent of the Government. Local self-government units can also establish their own associations and all according to the Constitution and the law. This amendment further defines the proactiveness of local self-government units, as it is currently referring to better access to economic resources, all in order to improve the development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40135	Thank you, colleague Jolovic. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Goran Pekarski submitted the nations. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40136	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the Ministry, here we are talking about units of local self-government, we're talking about municipalities and cities, there are different status of municipalities, there are independent municipalities and there are these city municipalities. These city municipalities do not have that independence in decision-making as the previous ones do, but depend on the cities. They move within the city's budget, correct their statutes in relation to the town's statutes, simply the City of Belgrade, I'm talking about Belgrade now, a city that controls the work of these city municipalities. As far as these controls are concerned, last night I started talking about which Dragan Gilas, in some way, abused insisting that financial control arrive in the Municipality of Grock, in which I was then, which remained for nine months, simply moved into the township of Grock, and after nine months they couldn't find anything. The revolving mayor at that time sent a budget inspection that came as a form of political pressure. I say, political pressure, because they did not come to control the work of the budget work, that is, the executive work of the municipality, but they controlled the strict assembly part of the municipality, that legislative part, controlled the work of the president of the Municipality of Grock, i.e. me at that moment. They spent every day with me at the office for an hour or two, and they stayed for about a month. They even insisted that they be present at the meetings of the president of the Grock municipality at the time, with the heads of the committee groups, who were in the assembly meeting. Of course, that Miss Jerkov didn't want to hear something like that last night, and that the public would know who she was and what their new, old, leader, Dragan Gilas. There's one thing he's right about, it's not like Dragan Gilas sent an inspection all the time. In some moments he also tried to buy the officials of the local self-government unit from 2008 to 2009, when he himself had an interest in building an asphalt base in Vrčin, on the territory of the Municipality of Grock. He then quietly agreed with local unit officials that they could lobby with citizens and influence that citizens do not object to the construction of an asphalt base in Vrchin and explain to citizens that the asphalt base is a good respiratory system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40137	Thank you, fellow Bakery. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40138	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, among other things, are the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government defines and the local community, meaning their statutes, the way members of the local community are elected and financed. Local self-government where I come from Sokobanje introduced additional funding for rural local communities by coming from SNS in June 2016, given that the situation in these local communities was catastrophic. The growing and impenetrable rural roads were out of use, so we introduced a total of 300,000 dinars to each rural local community, and there are 25 on Sokobanje municipality territory, which is seven and a half million dinars additionally allocated from the budget for the recovery and reconstruction of these Atarian roads. In addition, we have introduced project financing for six rural local communities that are in competition, and six of the best, so economically justified sustainable economic projects, are mainly reconstructions of the home of culture or reconstruction of various sports fields. So, it's like embellishing the country's central squares or taps. I'm saying all this because the previous government didn't take care of the village population at all, and in the village of Sokobanja, there live 50% of the village population and they didn't hear about their needs and their concerns. We are doing all of this in order to keep the population in the country and in some way enable them to live a more normal and comfortable life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40139	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a messenger of the people, Tiana the Davidite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40140	Thank you, Chairman. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government remove the observed shortcomings in the practical application of the applicable law in the field of labour and the functioning of local communities. Since the SNS came to power, the city municipality of Lazarec, from which I come, has been a positive example of co-operation between the municipalities and the local communities. During the past period, it has worked intensively to pave the way for state, local and untegorised streets and roads on the initiative of councils and citizens of local communities in the territory of the city municipality of Lazarec, then, intensively working on the reconstruction of the water and sewerage network. At the end of the summer, work is expected to be completed at the first extra-patient maternity facility to be built on Belgrade's territory over the past 40 years. The reconstruction of the carpentry in the House of Health "Dr. Djordje Kovacevic" is also under way. At the initiative of the citizens of Lazarec municipality, project documentation is under way in co-operation with the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and the JP "Serb Roads" to create a circular flow on the master's road in the turn for Lazarec, in Ocaza whose realization is planned for 2019. Investment in agriculture is one of the priorities of our community. The opening of the agriculture office enabled our citizens to inform themselves about the numerous incentives in agriculture, animal health and future investments they can apply to, contributing to the development of agriculture as one of the most important branches of the economy in the territory of the Lazarec municipality. In order to increase the security of our citizens in Lazarevic, video surveillance has been installed at several locations in the city, as well as a panic key that every citizen, if threatened, can activate and connect immediately to the police station. There are numerous examples of co-operation between local communities and citizens, and the adoption of the proposed laws will significantly contribute to increasing this co-operation in other municipalities as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40141	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Snezana R. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40142	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, to Article 3. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law to amend Article 13. The Law on Local Self-Government, adding a new attitude 3, reads: "Proactiveness of the units of local self-government provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to tax liability". The willingness to take responsibility for the general interest and well-being of citizens of local self-government is reflected in the proactive nature of its leaders to organise and create conditions for the better life of its citizens. By entering the main functions of local self-government units, all its officials have an obligation to make every effort to make local self-government function as a professional, modern and orderly service for all citizens. The proactiveity doesn't know the expressions – there's nothing I can do, I have to, and I can't, but it's the point in the direction – let's look at alternatives, we have to choose a different approach, we will and we can. This proactive approach to the work of local self-government units is also the way the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible and is the way of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The practical application of this is not easy, but commitment to work, taking responsibility in units of local self-government is one of the ways of attracting and bringing investors, investing in the development of local self-government by providing new jobs, which ensures better conditions for young people to stay in their places, to work, to help and improve the lives of all their citizens. All of this will make such a proactive approach in working in local self-governments motivate citizens themselves to engage as much as possible in the work of local self-government and thus, together, we all help improve the conditions of life and make life better for everyone. In voting day, we will support the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40143	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Fired Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40144	Thank you. Good co-operation with local self-government always brings good results and helps improve the living conditions of the population in all fields. Of course, it is also necessary for local self-governments to recognize what is important for citizens and my amendment is currently talking about the proactive nature of local self-government to increase the infrastructure capacity in our country. I'll list some examples from the Palilu municipality, where I come from. By opening Pupin's bridge and bypass from Zemun to the punk road, this part of Belgrade received a safe and modern traffic station, removing some of the cargo traffic from the city centre. Now the inhabitants of the left coast of the Danube, as well as the whole of Banat, can reach Zemun and Srem more easily and quickly. The construction of this bypass has also positively affected the attractiveness of this area, so we can expect some new investments on the left bank of the Danube. In my previous speech, I also mentioned the announcement of the construction of a large industrial park in Borca. Also, when it comes to good co-operation of local self-government with the state administration and recognition of municipal leaderships of those projects that are important, I must also mention building apartments for security members at locations in Borca and Ovca. The Ovca site is the first to be implemented by this project in Belgrade and 2,000 apartments will be built there and it is good that property relations are already resolved. With these projects and their recognition by local self-government, there is an increase in our country's infrastructure capacity and the conditions of citizens' lives are improving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40145	Thank you, fellow Pantovic. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40146	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Serbia has stepped largely on the path of European integration in order to become a regulated country, thus achieving standards and highly developed European countries. This, above all, does to its citizens because of their better and more dignified lives recognised by someone or not, Serbia is doing it very successfully in all fields, especially in the area of health care and the development of medical centres and health homes. On this road, local self-governments must be trained to raise their capacities daily, to monitor through their bodies the process of European integration and to be ready to accompany any changes that change and carry with them. That, above all, the health system will be provided with new health centres and equipped with adequate modern equipment, that in every local self-government, we will train health homes to provide even more quality and top-quality health services, such empty stories, promises, we listened until 2012 from former regime representatives almost daily, but everything was only kept on desert promises and simply, by their lies. No more health affairs have ever been recorded, but between 2000 and 2012, and in Vojvodina until 2016 and all under the leadership of ministers and regional secretaries, then members of the G17 and the Democratic Party. The amendment I have submitted insists on the development of medical centres, which will be developed according to European standards, contribute to the overall development of Serbia, because only a healthy man can reach the level of highly developed countries by means of his dedicated work and engagement, which is also the goal of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40147	Thank you, colleague Granny. According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to address you not only as a resolute minister, but as a member of the government. It's about a very disturbing and serious question that came up today. Namely, my esteemed colleague, Dr Vlado Babic, from Somboro, otherwise, according to the nationality of Bunjevac, the SNS MP, received today at the address of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as you can see, a terrible threatening letter. It was written in a Latin letter, a hand, in which, among other things, he was threatened to be slaughtered because he had been replicating Mr. Tomislav Zigmanov a few days ago, because he advocated the preservation of the identity of the Bunjevac National Minority. In the worst possible way, this letter offends the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. It is mentioned that, here, I quote, regarding the Jasenovic victims – the first Croatian President, Dr Franjo Tudjman, defined nicely, that only 20 to 30 thousand people were killed in Jasenovac. It is said of Alexander Vulin, who will be the persona non grata in Croatia for life. It's about Mr. Vojislav Seselj, who is said to be a convicted Hague criminal. He says - the communicator-ready duke, who will also be slaughtered on the first occasion, etc. And what's ugliest in this letter, Mr. Babic, is threatening to, he says, some vigilantes will attack his wife's family – you're dead, we'll find you a weak spot in the movement, and what we'll do to your entire female family, for nothing, and congregation rhetoric, etc. So, I ask you to meet the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to meet the Minister of the Interior with this letter that arrived today at Dr Babic's address here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm afraid this is the continuation of the worst possible campaign against the Republic of Serbia. We've talked about it many times these days in the National Assembly, but this has really gone beyond that now. This is now an attack on the personality of one of the MPs. This is where his family is threatened with female members of his family. You can imagine what that means. Here is the worst possible way to talk about Serbia, its leadership, Serbian politicians, after all, who are in opposition, who are not even in power and I, if you like, can photocopy this for you, that you have it with you. (The Faith of Radeta: We want to. You'll get it. As a parliamentary group, we will insist on finding out who is behind this letter, because it is anonymous, it is not signed, it is written by hand. It's written in some language that reminds me a lot of this new Croatian Tudjman speech, but it's not the most important thing right now. The most important thing is for the state of Serbia to react, to stand up for both Dr Babic and his family members, but also for all others mentioned in this letter, regardless of whether they are politicians from the government or politicians from the opposition. The envelope in which this letter arrived is with Dr Babic, so I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the Ministry of Interior, to take these threats seriously to knowledge, to respond and to reveal who is behind this monstrous act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40149	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40150	This certainly deserves to be said a few sentences, let's say by Article 27. It is terrible that such things happen, and not only what Mr. Martinovic has read now, but it takes a long time, so that everyone can allow himself to in the harshest way and insult and threaten and give the state of Serbia and individuals out of power, out of opposition. On the other hand, there are some white bears who can't say anything, because then they're jumping all kinds of organizations, etc., proclaiming here some folk MPs as heroes, because they're rude and dared to say something that a decent man couldn't even think of. As for Mr Babic, when he spoke in the National Assembly, and then Milorad Mircic gave him full support, because we really have been in favour for years of what he was talking about, and that attempt to get the Bunjevci to do so has not been since yesterday. But it is this Mr. Zigmanov, Mr. Zigmanov, we say he is the Ustasha and he is it. Just don't interrupt me. We listened to him the other day as he spoke - if the Serb MP, part of what he said in the Croatian Parliament, should not go out. So, we allow a lot of things, and I'm afraid it's going to blow over our heads. We join the call to the authorities, the MUP, first of all, to take this letter seriously and all that's been going on in the last few days. Here, we see now how the public and Serbia make fun of this self-absorbed journalist, so how they make fun of what they found the things that were stolen on October 5th, etc. So it all seems like a little thing, but the brain agrees and the competent authorities have to be awake and react in accordance with the powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40151	Thank you. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40152	I thank the chairman. Article 27 concerning Article 107, having regard to Article 108, of course, in order not to repeat the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to what is to the strictest judgment. And for the harshest conviction is in any case any threat, any attempt to destabilise the state of Serbia in the way it is now trying. Every act, every event of action that threatens our stability poses a threat to the state of Serbia. If we are not unique, unless we condemn this in the strictest possible way, we are putting ourselves in danger and thus contributing to the threat of the state of Serbia. This is the rule of the Republic of Serbia, which we are participating in that government, we must not allow. Simply, the situation that requires us to be cautious, alert, while on the other hand using every possible chance if they are shown, and there are many who want to take advantage of this opportunity, such as through this letter already indicated, to destabilise the state, to change power in an irregular way, an illegal way – we certainly cannot allow it. Therefore, the appeal to all state authorities, to all institutions, to all those who are competent to deal with these issues, to take this letter seriously into consideration, to bring the defendant or the defendants to justice, to process and to make anyone responsible for such a thing criminally responsible in a way that implies the strictest punishment. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40153	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40154	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Martinovic, of course, that this shameful act is one call to the lynch and as it usually happens, by an anonymous author, something that is unacceptable in a democratic state as Serbia is. This relationship to our foreign policy, to a policy that is personified by the President of the Republic and in relations with the Republic of Croatia, where there are many difficult and open issues, but we are trying to show here and in this field and leadership and to make a improvement for the future of all of us in the region. Of course I will convey, above all, this disgraceful letter to the Minister of the Interior and to the authorities, above all. What is important for Serbia is that Serbia is a serious state, that we also have clearly defined laws that treat, among other things, the issues of national councils of national minorities. In no way should the rights of all representatives of national minorities be compromised, whether we are talking about the Bunjevci, Romanians, Vlassima, Roma, Croats. We have 21 national councils, and we're proud of it. Those who are extremists, those who view politics and the protection of their minority rights in this way, simply do not belong to a well-organised society, and Serbia certainly is a well-organised society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40155	I thank Minister Ruzic. She has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment... I apologize, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40156	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I answered the line. First of all, I want to thank Mr. Ruzic for informing the government of this ruthless act. What I just want to add is that it is symptomatic that this letter comes to Dr Babic's address ahead of the upcoming elections for national councils in the Republic of Serbia. What I forgot to say in my presentation is that the author or authors of this anonymous letter are calling for the Croatian National Council and they threaten Dr Babic on behalf of the Croatian National Council because Mr Babic considers the Bunjeci to be a special national minority, that they belong not to the Croatian National Corps but to be a special ethnic community that lives primarily on the territory of Vojvodina, i.e. on the territory of the cities of Sombora and Subotica. That is why I am taking this opportunity to invite representatives of the Croatian National Council, if necessary, we will send them this letter, as we will also give it to colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group and all other parliamentary groups, so I invite the gentleman from the Croatian National Council to plead on this letter, to condemn him and to say who stands, if they know who stands, so who is the author of this letter and who is the author of these monstrous threats, first of all, at the expense of Dr Babic and his family, but also of the whole state of Serbia. So the letter is not naive at all, it's not harmless. This opens up many very complex topics, topics from the past, topics from the present. There are many things that should be clarified and which should be dealt with by the competent state authorities. Thank you, Minister, once again. But I want to point out that the SNS parliamentary group is really going to do everything possible to get things out of here. No one in Serbia can be marked and no one in Serbia can be the target, regardless of their political, national, religious or any other orientation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40157	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Mijatovic, you've reached out. Just tell me, please, the base of the call. You can do it by amendment, since you have the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40158	I'll look back on this letter. As a party that advocates the rights of national minorities, we really condemn this way of happening in Serbia, writing anonymous letters, attacking individuals because they belong to a particular national community or to a national minority. I think Serbia is one orderly country and all those who think it will be different I say it right now – no, Serbia will be a regulated country, which has clear security services, who know what they are doing and how they are doing. I expect the security services will also answer this question in a manner appropriate to a democratic country. I must stress that in Serbia everyone must feel good, that it is home to all those who respect the Constitution and the laws of this country. I therefore tell our fellow Messengers that you live in your country and feel very well, you will have good protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40159	Thank you. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40160	Thank you. I'd like to add a few words. Indeed, for every conviction, it is something like this, especially to threaten family members. I believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministries will take steps to protect counterparts Vlad Babic and his family. When we talk about the proposed laws, I think it's really been shown in the previous period, in the past few years that we're doing well. That's exactly what bothers those who have destroyed this country, who have devastated Serbia by 2012. They only try to deceive the citizens of Serbia with lies and lead them astray, to give them a vote in some subsequent elections. So another example that by lying is trying to lead us all astray here, but also the citizens of Serbia, is a colleague who talked about the floods this morning, about agriculture, and this is counterpart Miroslav Aleksic, former president of the Tristenik municipality, a man who muddled and muddled Serbia's state every day, all the ministries, and from the state took a tractor from the 893,000 dinar subsidy. It is not disputed that he has received a tractor, it is not disputed that he receives a salary as a national MP, but the issue is that in every way he tries to present it to the public, to present to the citizens everything that is done well in Serbia that is not good. The same man received the highest salary in Serbia until two years ago. Trstenik, who was a town on the verge of destruction, brought him to even lower branches and the citizens of Triestenik made it clear that they did not want him. That man and his father-in-law robbed the country. We have talked about this many times in this assembly, but he is still not ashamed to speak ill of the state here, about the government of the Republic of Serbia, about Mr. Alexander Vukic, who is trying to bring Serbia back to stable feet. But one thing is that Serbian citizens recognize who of us is telling the truth, and who lies, who is trying to bring Serbia back to those branches on which it was in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40161	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Slavisa Bulatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40163	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, to Article 3. I submit an amendment to the bill in the sense of adding a new 3rd position – the pro-activeness of the local self-government unit provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on the rule of law. The process of reforming the local self-government system in the Republic of Serbia has made local self-government more efficient and functional, and changes at local level have enabled more efficient management of local self-government, and in particular faster and more stable economic development, a successful solution to citizens' problems, the development of mutual co-operation between local communities. The efficiency of the work of the city administration is directly proportional to the degree of application of the international standard in the area of local self-government. The reform of local self-government in the Republic of Serbia affects greater efficiency of local administrations, fostering economic development and the adoption of development projects in various areas of social life, which contributes to a more stable functioning of all levels of government and better provision of public services to citizens. Today, there is excellent co-operation in the world between municipalities, districts and regions within a single country. However, today's opinion, which is increasingly widespread, is that in order to meet the basic needs of the population of the state border, many international organisations, as well as the international community, are involved, are included in various forms of co-operation between cross-border municipalities. That's why it's said that one community is as strong as its relationships with the world have developed. All the above talks about the pro-activeness of local self-government units is being contributed to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and for this reason I propose that we adopt the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40164	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40165	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I want to give my colleague Babic the support for that terrible letter he received, because I want all of us together to strongly condemn such threats and ways of communication in the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is a sovereign, stable, secure country, and it must no longer happen again and therefore once again we appeal to the complete government, primarily the MUP, to find anonymous perpetrators of such a misdemeanor. So, I have proposed an amendment and I propose adding Article 3 to Article 3, which points out that the pro-activeness of local self-government units achieves poverty reduction in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, this member should be precise and unequivocally determined by the rights and duties of local self-government, and in particular by establishing further development plans with a view to strengthening the standard of living of each local self-government and every municipality. However, I would particularly like to draw attention to the incorrect call of a few opposition MPs to the weather that has hit certain municipalities and cities recently, all in order to collect cheap daily-political points. While they insisted that the municipalities, of course, the highest state officials and members of the SNS, and our coalition partners had already found themselves on the ground and helped the citizens. One more thing I'd like to mention today, how the anti-urban system needs to be updated, so I feel the need to remind our fellow citizens how they did it and how they plan to do it. From 2007 to 2013, farmers know that this period was registered in black letters precisely because of the way they were trying to modernise the system, and then four million euros invested in what research and attempts to find an alternative, not buying anti-building missiles...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40166	Thank you, colleague. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40167	Thank you. The amendment I propose shows the contribution of local self-government to the overall development of the Republic and to achieving financial stability. Proactive co-operation of local self-government with the state administration contributes to increasing planning within the local self-government unit, as well as to achieving economic growth and development, as well as to fostering competitiveness with other local self-government units. Today we have a whole series of agreements on funding of different projects, where signatories are just units of local self-government, which improves the quality of life of citizens, but also increases competitiveness among municipalities. This policy has contributed to increased co-operation and association of municipalities. As an example, I will also quote the signing of the Protocol on the Cooperation of Cities and Municipalities along the Great Morava Basin and the Coal of the Upper Danube, which will contribute to organised integration of local self-government in order to reduce the risk of natural disasters. We all remember the great floods that affected our country in 2014, especially some Belgrade municipalities like Obrenovac. This protocol involves co-operation and association of cities and municipalities and not only prevention is achieved in order to reduce the risk of accidents, but also the security of preservation of the achieved degree of development, which contributes to both progress and financial stability, which is the path towards SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40168	Thank you, colleague Ognjanović. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40169	I thank the chairman. In the previous four years, the government in Belgrade has done much and success is seen at every turn. More investment in Belgrade means the country's progress, as 40% of GDP is achieved right in the capital that is the engine and driver of the economy. My amendment is about the economic growth of local self-government. I will say not only what we have done, what the city government has done, but what will be done and what we have begun. Work began to set up a rail network on the Bridge via Ade Gigania, with the completion of the tram infrastructure, we will be able to connect Banovo Brdo with New Belgrade and the Bridge via Ada. This year, the passage of the Topcider River trough and the expansion of the Patriarch Pavle's boulevard is planned to connect Rakovica and Vidikac to the Bridge. A tunnel under Topcider will also be built, which should connect the new Belgrade side to the AutoCommand. It's important to build a new Sava Bridge. The construction of a tunnel under the city centre is planned to connect the Sava and the Danube terrace. To connect the left side of the Danube to Palilu, to the right bank, it is necessary to build a new bridge on Ada Hua. The traffic infrastructure includes the removal of the railway station. Belgrade is all about improving traffic infrastructure, which is one of the biggest drivers and priorities. Tourism is the fastest growing economic branch in Belgrade. In 2017 alone, more than three million tourists came to Serbia, and about a million in Belgrade, and 19% higher in the first quarter of 2018. Belgrade will become the centre of services when it comes to tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40170	Thank you, colleagues. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Jovica Jevtic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40171	Dear President-in-Office, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, on Article 3 of the proposed legislative solution to be amended in Article 3 of the current Law on Local Self-Government, I propose an amendment in order to add a new stance that further defines the relationship between the degree of proactiveness of the units of local self-government and the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Article 13 of the applicable Law on Local Self-Government defines that units of local self-government can co-operate and co-operate to achieve common objectives, plans and programmes of development, as well as other needs of common interest and can pool funds and educate joint bodies, enterprises, institutions and other organisations and services, in accordance with the Law and Statutes. It also defines that units of local self-government can co-operate with local self-government units within the framework of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The decision to establish co-operation, i.e. the conclusion of an agreement on co-operation with the local self-government unit of another country, shall be taken by the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit, with the consent of the Government. That member of the applicable law also defines that units of local self-government can establish their associations in accordance with the Constitution and the law and that local self-government authorities can co-operate with NGOs. The proposed amendments to Article 13 of the applicable law shall be subject to the terminology of the provisions of the Association Act. The new position in the proposed changes also addresses the issue of the possibility of units of local self-government, which through its authorities monitors the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia and develops administrative capacities, in line with the law and established policies of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the addition of a new attitude, proposed by the amendment and defined by it, is further defined by the causative link between the degree of proactiveity of the units of local self-government and the even development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40172	I thank my colleague Yevtić. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40173	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the honourable ministers with associates, the imperative of every local self-government is to reduce the number of unemployed persons. Local self-government of the town of Leskovec and Mayor Goran Cvetanovic certainly did much to resolve the issue. According to 2012 data, the number of unemployed persons in Leskovac was 22,812 people, while today it has been reduced by more than 5,000 and is 17.225. In addition to increasing factory workers, the reduction in this number also contributed to a local employment action plan covering 961 persons from 2013 to the end of 2017. So far, the city has singled out about 131 million dinars for its realisation, while the amount of the allocation for 2018 is 18 million dinars. Foreign companies employ over 3,500 Leskovchans and are increasingly interested in our city. This contributed to the purchase of "South Express" and "Synthetics", for which the city was allocated 40m and 30m dinars, respectively. The government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out 185m dinars for the adaptation of the Synthetics building. A Turkish company, Ginsi, will move there very soon, which will employ another 300 workers. As for "South Express", a good part of the company's assets is being used by Jura, and we are currently in negotiations to open our fourth factory on this remainder. In addition to "Jinsy" and "Jure" in Leskovac, the "VNB Knitting", "Terastil", "Autostop", "Falke", and by the end of the year, the launch of the "Aptiv Packard" plant is expected, in the green zone, which we have just launched after many years and where we expect many more investors to arrive. The British investor will employ about 300 workers by the end of this year, and the total number of jobs that will open in the next two years is for 3,000 Leskovcans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40174	I thank my colleague Bogatinovic. The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40175	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which makes up the whole of my four amendments to this law. The colleagues have said briefly in the previous part of the discussion and in detail what Article 3 refers to, so that citizens who have been involved in the transfer in the afternoon, i.e. after work, know the content of the amendment, and I would use it to mention, in the context of my amendment, one active and current activity carried out by local self-government of the City of Kragujevac, which should be between many, but I do not have enough time to mention many more things, I would just now refer to the current activity that is related to employment, where unemployed persons and people with disabilities get an opportunity to work in public works based on the competitions of the city administration for 2018. The contest was called four days ago, so during the session of this assembly, June 15th. At the same time, a tender for subsidies to employers belonging to the private sector and having registered economic activity on the territory of the town of Kragujevac was also launched. This way, in addition to all other systemic employment efforts, the town of Kragujevac, on the one hand, encourages employment, and on the other hand gives incentives for entrepreneurs and employers. The amount the city has allocated for these purposes is eight million dinars and the NZS 6.5 dinars. The aim of this competition is to preserve and improve the work and business of unemployed persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40176	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40177	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government with a view to further defining the law. The co-operation of local self-government with the ministry is good, but I will point out to the minister that Alexinco is now in need of help. In fact, on the night between June 14th and 15th, 11 villages on the territory of the municipality were flooded. Roads have been destroyed, bridges damaged, houses and auxiliary buildings flooded. The Alexin crews are in the field. It is trying in every way to normalise life in these 11 villages, but the capacities of local self-government are limited and the damage has been done beyond the possibilities of the Alexine local self-government. It is therefore necessary to help the state remove the consequences of the weather. We can't blame anyone for the damage that's been done. The river Turia or better words stream and a small stream of streams that dry over the summer, but the amount of rainfall that was so much that nothing could prevent the flood. It is necessary to stress that in distress, it shows who is what kind of man is. In 2014, even though the Alexine himself was flooded, we sent help to the Paracino municipality. Voluntary fire company from Alexinac with strong pumps, with food and water on the cost of the municipality of Alexinac provided assistance to the citizens of Paracino for a week. Today, when we need help, there is not even a phone call from Paunovic, the president of the Paracin municipality, and let alone help clear the terrain and the recovery of floods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40178	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40179	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, there is no man who would not condemn the threat received by our colleague Vlado Babic and some other person from the government. I have no doubt that the M.O.P. will quickly find the perpetrator, and until then, in the right way, protect a colleague who has been threatened, as well as other people who are on this list of one man or organization. I'm here on occasion, and you guys are always listening to some bad news from the Smederevska Palanka municipality, and I think we should just take it easy on that. What's changed is, new leadership came after this convincing result, so we can no longer talk about thefts and thieves, that's the end, we can already say that the new leadership is actively working and this word is the proactive that we're using today's rights for the new management of Smederjevska Palanka municipality, because after the election several routes have been made. One road that connects two large villages Kusadak and Azanju, and thus two regional times Smederovska Palanka-Smederevo, as well as Smederjevska Palanka-Mladenovac, as Smederjevska Palanka-Topola, in an indirect manner. Another direction is being done, it is in the Palanca Muker Street, which ends with the aim of connecting one side direction and the municipality of the Great Plan, in fact the regional road of Great Plan-Smederevo and Great Plan-Smederjevska Palanka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40180	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40181	I thank the chairman. As local self-government operates where yellow waste is ruled, it is best seen in the case of the Capca. From the beginning of 2018, little by little in Sabac the biggest political decline that Serbia has ever had in Serbia, Djilas, Stamatovic, Paunovic, accompanied by Dusan Petrovic and Neboja Zelenovic's household. It has not been long, the epilogue is the special reception of the mayor of Šapco Nebojsa Zelenovic and the president of the Parliament of Nemanje Pajic near the Mayor of Peći, a certain Gazet who did not hide the satisfaction of not recognising him and the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo sits two of the above-mentioned political idiots from Sapac. While the state of Serbia is fighting the battle and trying to preserve what the third idiot in this story, Vuk Jeremic, has removed from the UN's jurisdiction, which is the question of KIM, to confirm their common character of this visit, two air-conditioned, Zelenovic and Pajic signed some documents and contracts with the designation of the Republic of Kosovo. I ask the question – on behalf of the mayor of Sapca Nebojsa Zelenovic and the president of the Nemanja Pajic Assembly were sitting under the flag of the unacknowledged and self-claved state of Kosovo, but I expect a conviction in Serbia of all patriots, especially Shapcana. Special responsibility is on the council members of the town of Šapca who should call for an emergency session and take them off duty. In particular, I think the council members of the current ruling coalition, who after this finally realized what the policies of Jeremic, Djilas, Dusan Petrovic were like. I'm sure they're not ready to bear the burden of this kind of treasonous policy, as I'm sure even the citizens of Whisper have not voted for such a policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40182	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40183	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, I am still under the impression of the shameful anonymous letter received by our colleague Babic and as our president of the parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic, said - this is not only a threat to the MPs, this is a threat to the Republic of Serbia. So I urge the authorities to do whatever it takes to find and expose the applicant of this letter. I have submitted an amendment to point out how important it is for pro-actively local self-governments to participate in the development of the Republic of Serbia. Here, of course, are the expected international circumstances of the announced economic policies, then, as well as the trends in 2017 that continue in 2018 and this economic growth that should be greater than 4%. In the following year we expect stability, then we expect a slight growth in employment, new investments, an external deficit to be as it was at last year's level. Because we do not have time to throw away, and therefore we must not waste it on empty stories but solely on concrete actions that we must benefit from. The Serbian Progressive Party has a set goal that we must stick to never giving in to the will and desire for a better life in all activities that are important to the citizens of Serbia. With Aleksandra Vukic headed, we will not turn from the course that leads us where all the chances and opportunities are given to improve the conditions that we raise standards, getting support from the EU and the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40184	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dr Desanka Repac submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to welcome the minister with his associates. I want to condemn this incident that happened to my colleague Babic, and I want it resolved as soon as possible, so it doesn't happen again. I have submitted an amendment relating to the improvement of health care when units of local self-government are at stake. Local authorities throughout the Republic of Serbia play a significant role in the country's ongoing reforms and the development of the future of the Republic of Serbia. Since the government is at a local level, it is closest to the citizens, it is at the heart of democracy. The reforms implemented locally are those that citizens can feel directly, and therefore is a responsibility and a decentralised approach to its implementation of crucial importance. Local self-government is responsible for providing a large number of important services to citizens, as well as a large part of investment and infrastructure and municipal services. As early as 2009, an action plan for the implementation of local self-government units in Serbia was presented for the European integration process. Over 60% of European legislation is applied locally. I would like to say something about local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina from 2000 to 2016. When it comes to health, the Democratic Party's poor policies in the local self-government of Vojvodina, everything that could have been destroyed, including the health system, has been destroyed. Everything in health except human resources, and even he's defiled.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40186	Thank you. Time. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, agriculture is the chance of the Republic of Serbia which has not been used so far, primarily because of the party of the former regime, which mainly shared subsidies with themselves and their friends. So I believe that modernization, co-operation and processing as close as possible to the place of production can be a chance not only for agriculture, but also for demographic potential, or for the population now living in the country to be detained, and for individuals to be able to return, not only to deal with agricultural production, but to deal with the processing industry. What I think is a great opportunity in fruit, vegetables and that farmers in the future, and we already give subsidies, are the owners of storage facilities, so that they can put off their goods, that they can wait for a better price, wait for the buyer, and avoid riots and roadblocks, or protests that they have been exposed to for years. Also, livestock, I think, gives us a big chance because we have 0.33 head per hectare of agricultural land, and the European average is about one. If they did, they would get about 3.5 million throats, not exporting millions of tons of wheat, and in return importing meat of suspicious quality, but being meat exporters, and those 3.5 million throats alone worth about 3.5 billion processed, not in the final product, would be worth at least seven billion. In such a way, we would gain more money, not only in agriculture and processing, and I advocate that farmers can through storage facilities and processing activity to make up for what they might lose in the field by making a profit in the warehouse which is a practice in developed countries. I'll make an example of Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40188	National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Branimir Rancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40189	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, without the accelerated activity of local self-government, there is no development of education and education, especially his main task of developing love for his country. Had the former Minister of Agriculture and University Professor Dragan Veselinov had developed patriotic feelings, he would not have said on June 10, 2018, I quote: "We must work to ensure that the Republic of Vojvodina does not endanger the future," the quote concluded. Or, if Cedo Jovanovic, called Cedo, had patriotic feelings, would not have said on 26 October 2012, I quote: "Vojvodini should fill your sovereignty and recognise it as an independent country," the quote concluded. Or, if Nenad Canak, called Neso Gica or the boar of Catalonia had patriotic feelings, would not have said on March 5th 2017, I quote: "I am ready to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Or, if Sasa Jankovic, called Sale Prangi had patriotic feelings, would not have said on 7 August 2017, I quote: "Serbia is in the interest of Kosovo entering Interpol, and thus recognises Kosovo's independence," the quote concluded. Everything Comrade Tito built, Slobodan Milosevic saved, destroyed the yellow scum with robbery privatisation, and Aleksandar Vukic is rebuilding. That's why this amendment is important, so that in the future, ladies and gentlemen, politicians such as Cedo Jovanovic's known sniffer, Nenad Canak called the Catalonia boar, Sasa Jankovic called Sale Prangija, Dragan Veselinovic, who has no morals, no honor, no shame, people without face who work to break our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40190	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Mike. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40191	I thank the president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which further defines the effectiveness of local self-government and connects the effectiveness of local self-government. The proactive local self-government is one that takes over the competences and resources it has, sets clear and strategic goals and constantly works to achieve them. Although not in the original jurisdiction of local self-government, what is most important for each local self-government is, above all, attracting investment and hiring people in the territory of local self-government. We have an example of such investor attraction and promotion of employment in Kikinda, which last year made a decision on compensation for environmental protection and improvement. The decision reduced the tax on environmental protection for companies in investment cycles, i.e. companies that expand capacities and restore equipment, thus creating conditions for new employment. This tax reduction depends on the level of investment and can be reduced to a maximum of 50%, and is available to all legal persons in the territory of the city of Kickinda. This benefit was used by French "Le Belier" in previous years, and is currently being used by "Zoppas" in Kikinda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40192	The 3rd amendment was submitted by Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40193	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted this amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which amends Article 13. Law on local self-government, which defines the co-operation and association of local self-government units in order to achieve common objectives, plans and work programmes. This member regulated the co-operation of the local self-government unit with units of local self-government of other states under the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, all in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. My amendment reads in Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which amends Article 13. The Law on Local Self-Government, a new position 3 is added – the proactiveness of local self-government units provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving the functioning of the judiciary. Just to remind the MPs and all citizens of Serbia that President Aleksandar Vukic in his exposé, during the 2014 government election, cited among other things that the end of the judicial reform is one of the important pillars for normal functioning of the economy, state administration and creating a safe environment for foreign investment. I am taking the opportunity to present some information on the work of the local self-government of the municipality from which I come to the Great Plane and this work of local self-government since the establishment of the Assembly of the Municipality, when responsibility for the management of local self-government has taken over the SNS for these two years, active policy has been conducted, attracting new investments and creating new jobs. With active co-operation with the bankruptcy managers, local self-government has contributed to the acceleration and completion of bankruptcy proceedings to the sale of property to the bankrupt debtors of the Hotel “Plana”, the dairy “Plana” and the “Percona” confectionery. New investments in new facilities have also been launched. In the industrial zone in the Great Plan, on June 1, 2016, the production of a chicken slaughterhouse, which currently employs 145 workers, started the value of an investment of 2m euros. Also, in the industrial zone, the construction of the dairy is under way, the value of the investment is 3.5m euros. It is expected to start working and employ 50 workers before the end of 2018. In the industrial zone in Milesevec, works on building the most modern chicken farm are completed, the value of the investment is over 2m euros. The companies listed above are expected to employ new 200 workers by the end of the year, and in 2019, 370 new workers. In voting day, I will vote in favour of the law on amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40194	National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40195	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and local self-government units from which I come work well, and all projects planned for the city of Nis by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that this ministry is included in any way, are carried out on time and as planned. The process of modernising the state administration also relates, of course, to the functioning of the city administration in Nis, namely to the tendency to do more responsible and efficient by providing services to Nis residents at a satisfactory level. In this, Nis has always had professional and technical support from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. So, after rationalising the number of staff in the administration that was necessary, it continues to optimise the work process and invest in improving the skills of employees, but also to create better conditions for their work. In line with this intention, the Government will also work on amending laws relating to the way in which it checks knowledge and skills in employment, professional development of employees and rewarding for merit. On the other hand, it continues to reform the pay system, because only a transparent, fair and manageable system of staff and wages can raise the motivation of employees, which ultimately contributes to the quality of services the administration provides to citizens. The administration is as successful as the citizens are satisfied, and this is the primary goal of all the reform measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40196	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40197	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, is the proactiveness of the local self-government that I have submitted the amendment to, and this member is the deepest violation of the behaviour of the mayor of the town of Sapac and the president of the town of Sapac, who visited the Municipality of Peć and the mayor of Peci, under the auspices of the flag of the non-existent state of Kosovo, the most brutal violation of all the legal but human norms in the Republic of Serbia. How much is the hour of a freed town and a freed people, how much is it that someone sits on behalf of the rest of the yellow company and negotiates with someone in Peća under the auspices of a Kosovo state that, of course, does not exist and we will never recognise, is also a question for Mayor Zelenovic, but also for his employers, Gilas, Petrovic, Vuk Jeremic and others. They certainly do not represent my Capcans, do not represent Serbia, but represent themselves and the remains of the "yellow company". What I have to ask the minister – how after two years of government, when citizens in Sapac do not have a single vote that would give Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic, how can citizens thank such mayor who has just come to power by buying votes, lying about investment, spending his budget without cover, and in the elections for the council of the local community getting one big zero from the citizens of the town of Sapac? How can the citizens thank this mayor? If he had cheeks and honours, he would not have made a mess and would not have taken part in the ageing of a picture that is not realistic and that falsely represents Serbia, but would have, if he had had the cheek and honour, resigned from the post and allowed the citizens of Sapca to decide again who would lead them in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40198	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Popovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has been made by MP Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40199	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the assumption of the development of our state is a good coordination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with municipalities and cities, above all in identifying key problems in local self-government units, and then in implementing projects of vital importance for citizens. In addition to continuing investment in health care in Novi Varoša, buying medical equipment and sanitary and field vehicles and adapting health facilities, the Municipality of Nova Varoš is very active in creating new ideas and new projects that directs the country's numerous competitions. Most of these projects have received green light, so over 40 million dinars have been approved over the past few months. Nearly 24 million dinars have been approved for the production of project-technical documentation, and then for the expansion and complete arrangement of Duke Petar Bojovic's Square. Nine million dinars were set aside for the last phase of reconstruction of the primary school building, four million for modernisation and improvement of the work of the municipal administration, four million for the Project "Expansion of the Enabling Museum" and seven million for the adaptation of the pre-school institution, as well as the adaptation of rural primary schools. A few days ago, the construction of a trafostation in Radoinja near Novi Varoša began to ensure a quality power supply for consumers in the area of Nova Varoša, Pribo, Prijepolja, Čajetine, Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Raška and Tutina. The value of this very important investment is over eightm euros. The realisation of all these projects is an indication that the government of the Republic of Serbia is pursuing the overall development of the state and raising the standard of living of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40200	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40201	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as regards the amendments and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government, it seems to me that the former regime used that time to accuse the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of allegedly reducing the incomes of local self-government, that is, their right, however, forgot one other obligation while they were in charge of these municipalities, which is that local self-government is the first place where citizens meet their basic needs for state authorities. So it seems to me that one of the reasons is that the current local self-governments should not only, but also have to follow the legislative framework of the Republic of Serbia, to adapt their capacities and authorities to allow those expectations that citizens have to actually realise. It's the primary task of local self-government. It could be a discussion of whether it is a alignment with European Union legislation in order to join or bring it into line with the rights and needs of citizens. So, I guess every one of us wants the Republic of Serbia and all its authorities, regardless of the level of government, to meet the requirements that citizens expect, and those from the former regime did not most often meet, in principle "must lack one piece of paper" to reward a certain official, a certain head of the municipality with an envelope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40202	The third amendment was submitted by Mladen Lukic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40203	Thank you, President. The first intergovernmental conference between Serbia and the European Union was held in Brussels on 21 January 2014, marking the start of accession negotiations at a political level. Since then, the activity of all levels of government, including units of local self-government, has been intensified to follow through their authorities the processes of the European integration of the Republic of Serbia and to develop the necessary administrative capacities, i.e. to carry out the necessary reforms to welcome the closure of the negotiating chapters and Serbia's accession to the European Union. In this field, huge progress has been made in the professionalization of officials, raising levels of expertise and relations with citizens, so that officials who are friendly and citizens at the service can meet more and more often, rather than vice versa. Local self-government is largely becoming modern and efficient, true citizens' services, and systematization and systemic acts are also adapted to the needs of local environments and citizens, making it easier for citizens to meet their needs, as well as pave the way for investors to arrive in the local environment. As the local self-government minister at the time, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic had her first work visit right in Baja's garden, where she visited 21 August 2016, skating and blizzards in the village of Dub, caused by heavy rainfall and made it clear that the government is taking care of the problems of the locals, and that she is better acquainted with the local population's needs and is easier to give priorities in the distribution of budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40204	The third amendment was submitted by Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40205	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, starting with our main strategic goal of EU accession, as well as the fact that local self-government is defined as the most important address book of European legislation, as between 60% and 70% of all European directives are addressed to local self-government units, it is quite logical and normal that the substance of the amendment and addition of the provisions of Article 3 of the proposed law, is to regulate the issue of the possibility of units of local self-government following the process of integration of the Republic of Serbia and, in that sense, develop their administrative capacities. The social transformation process, which inevitably takes place on the path of a country towards its full membership on the road to the EU, implies an important and active role of local self-government, and their positioning as inevitable actors in the takeover, adaptation and implementation of European, legal and political flows and values. As the independent form of public administration closest to citizens, their needs and everyday challenges local self-government is responsible for regulating and doing public affairs in many social affairs. That is why it must play an important role in the process of Eurointegration, as the ability and capacity of local communities will largely depend on the success and time frame of the accession process. Negotiating different access jobs will be unimaginable without coordination and co-operation with local self-government, since some of the key chapters are related to social issues, employment, environmental protection, agriculture, energy, rural development, health and others, precisely those that are most effectively addressed at local communities and for which they are directly competent. Also, withdrawal of funding from EU funds for local and regional development, and exchange of experience and implementation of European standards and solutions are the main benefits that should motivate local self-government to a proactive approach in the integration process itself. For all of the above reasons, it supports the proposed changes leading to capacity building for inclusion and possible participation in the screening and negotiation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40206	Thank you. Milovan Krivokapic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40207	Thank you, President. Through Article 3, or existing views, amendments and additions have been made to which I have submitted Amendment 3, which adds Article 3, which reads - the proactiveness of the units of local self-government is ensured by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities. The social transformation process, which inevitably takes place on the path of a country towards its full membership in the EU, implies an important and active role of local self-government, and their positioning as inevitable actors in the takeover, adaptation and implementation of European, legal and political flows and values. The local self-government, in line with the principle declared according to which decision-making on common issues should be transferred to the lowest possible level of society, and thus plays a very important role in the process of adapting the national, institutional and legislative framework with the Union's normative practice. As the independent form of public administration closest to citizens, their needs and everyday challenges local self-government is responsible for regulating and doing public affairs in many social areas. For this reason, it must also play an important role in the process of Eurointegration, as the ability and capacity of local communities, above all, of administrative, material and personal, will largely depend on success and the timeframe of the accession process. Local self-government in our country is working to strengthen capacity to include and possible participation in the screening and negotiation process, training of local authorities and institutions and the development of a network of local officials. Local self-governments that are the most direct form of government enforcement during the previous government were unfairly neglected and placed on the sidelines of many issues. In view of the above, I am of the opinion that, in addition to the way defined in Article 3, it should be further defined that the procativity of units of local self-government ensures overall development...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40208	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Krlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40209	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My amendment refers to the relationship between culture and local self-government and would probably have a completely different theme if today's session hadn't started by an opposition MP who I think really knows a lot when she talks about culture but in a very ugly way, when she was tried to get local self-government in Vrsac to be accused of shutting down freedom of the media, freedom of artistic expression by the notion "My choice, why I listen to Marcel", removed from the festival in Vrsac. I have an obligation to be involved in culture and information in the Assembly, to respond to this kind of SNS charge, according to local self-government in Vrsac, which allegedly chokes the freedom of culture, freedom of expression, freedom of young people, which is very important, because this duo drama is and has an education for young people and their involvement in society. I can say that a series of false things has been said, very responsible. First, the performance in Vrsac was not cancelled at the festival but had no technical opportunities because the organizer did not provide the sound and all the necessary, additional things to allow the performance to take place. It is the first thing, and second thing, that same play was offered on November 2, 2016 to play in the municipality of Chukarica. In the municipality of Kukarica, the SNS was in power and, of course, the director of Misko Rakocevic was fully opened, with full freedom of artistic expression allowed such a performance to take place. The show sold five cards and the organizer gave it up. So all that's said about it is a simple lie, an incident, and an attempt to re-make chaos in a small local community like Vršac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40210	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does he want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40211	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which is being amended in Article 13. The law in local self-government issues the possibility of uniting local self-government in which they will monitor the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia through their bodies and develop their administrative capacities. On the way to European integration, it is of particular importance that local self-governments raise their capacities and be an active participant in the process, to monitor and implement changes planned as a consequence of them. The question of whether all local self-government and these jobs can be successfully done with the existing number of employees, especially when it comes to border municipalities, given that some have already established a high degree of co-operation with municipalities and neighbouring countries, which respect the law on how to determine the maximum number of employees in the public sector, which is the case when it comes to the municipality of Novi Knezevac, from which I come from where only 37 employees are working in the municipal administration today. And, in addition to this fact, we delivered eight projects to pre-accession funds based on IPA projects through border co-operation, five based on Serbia and Hungary's co-operation and three Serbia-Romania, under which one million and two hundred thousand euros were approved, out of which is the municipality of Novi Knezevic, 750, whose realisation is under way. These projects will significantly improve the work of local self-government and contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is on track for accelerated development. It's better to live in Serbia. The standard of citizens is at a higher level, the unemployment rate is at a historic minimum, as all relevant international institutions speak, and citizens have been saying in numerous elections since 2012 that this is the result of responsible SNS policy and its president, Mr. Aleksandra Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40212	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does he want a word? Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40213	Thank you, President. Local self-government is the most favourable form to identify the needs of citizens and to plan material resources for their achievement. As the independent form of public administration closest to citizens, their needs and everyday challenges, local self-government is responsible for regulating and doing public affairs in many social areas. In this way, local authorities will be allowed to adapt as much as possible the law enforcement to local conditions. Local self-government is responsible for providing a large number of important services to citizens, as well as for a large part of investments in infrastructure and municipal services, as well as institutions of importance for the development of the Republic of Serbia and local health development. Under their responsibilities, and in accordance with the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and legal order of the Republic of Serbia, and in accordance with the Constitution and the law, units of local self-government can co-operate and co-operate, in order to achieve common objectives, plans and development programmes, as well as other needs of common interest. In order to achieve them, they can pool funds and educate joint bodies, enterprises, institutions and other organisations and services. So, in this way, broad powers have been given that in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the pro-active operation of local self-government can encourage economic development, balanced regional development, improve the competitiveness of domestic economy, promote the development of productive trade and service activities, encourage employment and the development of the capital market, thus exerting influence on the development of health institutions and health in general. Local self-government is an equal partner with the republican authorities in terms of action on the welfare of citizens and the development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40214	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. He's not here. Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40215	Thank you, President. Public health, the improvement of our health system was also discussed by Mr. Alexander Vukic in his 2016 exposé. I quote: "Among the priorities of Serbia's health system, in the coming period it will certainly be continued to implement screening programs and improve prevention at all levels. In addition to providing a much greater chance of healing, timely screening programs and prevention enables savings for the health system on behalf of expensive costs of primary illness treatment and its consequences." The action of free preventive checks launched by the Ministry of Health in September 2017-May 2018, with the aim of early diagnostics and promotion of prevention as the most effective way of care for their own health, has led to a major interest in citizens who have gone to health institutions in order to examine themselves in a preventive manner. Great support and significant citizens' interest in this action by the Ministry of Health in particular confirms that more than 170,000 citizens of Serbia have been reviewed in nine days of action, or close to 20,000 citizens every last week of the month. Of that number, thousands of citizens have been prevented from having a serious disease, the most significant result of this action. The speciality of this action is that the review could also be carried out by citizens who for any reason do not have health insurance. The greatest interest of citizens has been recorded in mammographic and gynological examinations, cardiological, dermatological examinations and ophthalmological examinations, as well as in cholesterol control, triglycerides and other laboratory analyses. The health ministry will continue to organise such and similar actions in line with citizens' huge interest in free preventive checks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40216	Thank you. The third amendment was submitted by Jasmina Obradovic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Maletic. The third amendment was filed by Sandra Christmas. Dr. Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40217	As far as local self-government's income is concerned, I think one third of the budgets of each municipality or every city should make up the original local income, and on the structure of the original local income, the circular place or first place should contain, and currently contain, the property tax. When the question of property tax, I advocate, that is, our party argues that the number of citizens paying the property tax is increasing, that if all citizens were to pay the property tax, that the tax would be lower. So, by increasing the volume, we have to try to legalize that volume, so that the price per square metre is as small as possible and on the other hand, that the percentage rate I was talking about, which can be 0.2, 03, 04%, is not in every municipality of 0.4%. One more thing that is very important, when citizens get a solution to the property tax, an annual solution, then that annual solution must contain the current state, the current obligation of the citizen to the state. What's this about? The first two payments are advances and a small difference arises that the citizen has no knowledge of. The difference that a citizen does not pay is constantly increasing as a snowball. That is why I advocate that the ministry requires local self-government to go along with the annual solution with the notification of what the current state of financial situation is or what are currently the obligations of every citizen when it comes to property tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40218	The 3rd amendment was submitted by Ivan Nikolic. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljubiša Stojmirović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 3rd amendment. The third amendment was submitted by Marko Zelig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40219	I thank the chairman. The effectiveness of local self-government in the bill should ensure the freedom of the initiative to launch projects of interest to citizens in order to develop local self-government as a whole development of the Republic of Serbia. With SNS coming to power in Belgrade and forming a team tasked with solving all the accumulated problems created during the tycoon government of Dragan Gilas, the total debt of the city amounting to a billion and 200m euros, and the responsible budget availability and realisation of investments has today been reduced to a double-level debt. The city's public enterprises that have been the site of Javaljuk and the machines to extract money from Belgrade's citizens for personal gain, after the introduction of reforms and optimization of the number of employees today, are making profits. The most drastic example is Parking Service, which essentially receives a public area resource financed by the resolution secretariat to manage, and the company's obligation was to charge a fee. In 2014, the hole in the company's cash register was 100 million dinars. Already in 2016, after changes in profits from the same company reached 730 million. Similarly, if not the worse situation, it was in the cities where the DS ruled. I'm going to set an example of the township of Surcin from which I come, where the former government tried to kidnap the council to retain power, to hide its crimes. The long cash register with public enterprises amounted to 500m dinars, exceeding the city municipality's budget framework. An enormous number of unnecessarily party employees, as well as the number of people in commissions who have never met, were found to cost the citizens of Surcin three million dinars per month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40220	The third amendment was submitted by Milosav Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40221	I would like to express my confidence that this is one of the most important topics we are discussing. In previous amendments, I highlighted important co-operation between local self-government and state authorities. I said I believed that only with a clear vision and respect for the statutes could one municipality or city go forward. Now I would refer to the previous exposure and say that as the term itself means, none of this would be possible unless there is a proactive approach, or self-initiativeally, with a conscious takeover of responsibility and control of what you want to achieve, we can make progress and development. It is this element that makes the backbone develops the private sector, that is what a modern employer requires of his worker, creativity, taking responsibility, initiative. The modern life of the 21st century requires it. The municipality of Arangelovac has received more than 20m euros in assistance from the government of the Republic of Serbia through various programmes and for many purposes over the past years. Tens of kilometers of local and master roads were made, the rehabilitation of schools, kindergartens, libraries, museums, court buildings, cultural and historical monuments was performed. Large projects of hospital reconstruction, sports halls and many things are being launched that are essential for the functioning and development of the city. For decades many of the projects have stood and been forgotten under a deep layer of dust. As the SNS came to power, with the vision of Alexander Vukic, it began to develop again the awareness of how important it is to do important things, how important it is to try and do everything to make one local unit, city, municipality, develop. It was with a proactive approach, with an idea and a desire that something that hadn't been done for decades, that many thought would remain forever a dead letter on paper, suddenly become reality. This was achieved only and only thanks to the wishes and will of the people of the local self-government, on the one hand, to the understanding and knowledge of the problems of the people of the state authorities, on the other hand. It's a clear pattern of how to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40222	The 3rd amendment was submitted by Stanija Compirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40223	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment to Article 3 refers to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the improvement of the judiciary. The main objective of improving justice and improving the work of judicial authorities, introducing new and improved working methodologies, improving communication with the public, improving professional competences and revising the relevance of the legislative framework, the efficiency of the judiciary as a whole in the network of courts of general jurisdiction and public prosecutors. In order to improve the judiciary, it is necessary to continue with the professional training of the holder of judicial functions in order to ensure that they comply with the highest standards of competence, conduct, integrity of professionalism and accountability. Without adequate, trained, administrative and technical staff in courts and public prosecutors, there is no quality and efficient work of these bodies, and therefore it is necessary to keep working on their training and professional training. The improvement of efficiency, the quality of work, as well as the creation of a stimulating working environment, with the aim of achieving the best results, remains a priority in the coming period, as is the creation of a strong economic and stable society, priority and policy path that our president leads us to, so we strive to go through better and forwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40224	Vladimir Djukanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The third amendment was submitted by Jelena Mijatovic. The third amendment was submitted by Miodrag Lint. The third amendment was submitted by Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40225	Thank you, President. I think it is very important for every local self-government to build this partnership relationship with all the republican institutions, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia through ministries to public enterprises. I can best illustrate it on the case of my town, Chuck. A few months ago, I had the pleasure of sharing with all of you and with all of the citizens a good news that the town of Cačak entered the final phase of negotiations with the great German company Forverk, a company that deals with the production of spare parts for the automotive industry and which should be employed in the town of Cačka between 1,200 and 1,500 citizens in the next few years. Now I can say that a contract was signed a few days ago and that in the first half of June we can expect a cornerstone, and already in January that factory will start hiring citizens and working. We couldn't have done all of this if we hadn't had a perfect relationship with the government of the Republic of Serbia and with the competent ministries and with public enterprises, and in a short time we hadn't built a whole new industrial zone in which more than five million euros were invested. When we talked about this topic in the town of Cačka and she was in the city assembly, only one political organization was against this investment, against the opening of new jobs, and I don't think I even have to tell you which political organisation it is, that you will certainly recognize yourself. When one favourable investment climate is created, you get the necessary infrastructure preconditions, when the investment wheel spins, then where one investment is, there is another, and when many foreign investors already hear that one such large and serious company has come to the town of Cachak, then they decide more easily to take the same step. I think that in the next 20 days, I will have the satisfaction of sharing with all of you and the citizens of Cačka another good news, which is that another factory will be opened in the town of Cačak and another respectable and reputable foreign company will come to town.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40226	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40227	Thank you. I'm impressed in today's afternoon debate, the impression that I'm looking at right now, that there's not a single MP all day has an ex-DS in any aggregate state. This is a topic they don't care about at all. They were there when the MPs asked questions and they complained, made a few false statements and left. Nice, and they take care of the people and what's going on in our country. That with all my amendments, I am on the right track, this member of the law, or amendment and addition of the Law on local self-government, is telling me. That the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia are doing the right thing and that the state of Serbia and all of us are leading the right way is saying exactly what I wanted to point out through the amendment to Article 3. – economic sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. When I say that, first of all, I mean in the part where it is said in this article that all local self-governments should and must be familiar with all those events that are at the level of the Republic of Serbia, and above all talk about European integration. That is what we will see, if we follow European integration, that we are opening doors, apropo what counterpart Marko Parezenović said, that we are opening new investments, that foreign investors are coming to us and that the Republic of Serbia is going the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40228	The third amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40229	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it is evident that these friends of yours from the EU, in which Serbia, absolutely we Serbian radicals are never going to enter, because the condition for you to recognise the Shiparian false state of Kosovo, praise you, not only your portfolio, but the entire government, in which you enforce all their laws. For the sake of the public and other colleagues who may not have known this information, which is that this Article 3, you had to make this very clear because they themselves tell you that 70% of the laws that Serbia has adopted have just come down to the level of local self-government. Now imagine, there's something Mrs. Radeta said about it, when she told you that you would be left without a large number of professional people in local self-governments, especially in small areas, because you know what is for a Black Trava or for Babusnica or the Shop, and also for Kursumli to find a good lawyer, a good expert who will run the municipal administration, who will be the secretary of the assembly, who will manage a public enterprise, to be a municipal defender. All of this is what you are now, all of these people in various trainings and educations, directing them towards the path to the EU. And what, and we are sure that this will not happen, that these people will now return to what needs to be their basic and basic knowledge, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and all of our positive legal regulations, not those that you synchronise with the rules of the Brussels Bureau, which has an extremely hostile attitude towards Serbia and which goes so far to blackmail local self-government units to implement their extremely, according to Serbia, enemy policy in terms of territorial integrity. Well, you don't think they'll, like, go to the Shop or some other municipality that's borderline with Serbia to make a donation without spreading their policy?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40230	Thank you. The National MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40231	The policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a set of policies of the ministry, and it would be no wonder that this policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not dictated by the EU, or Brussels. This is also well seen in this proposal, i.e. Article 3 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, because I am going to tell you a little about what was provided for in Article 13. What's that supposed to be about? Here, it continues for 18 years in continuity. EU policy is being guided and there is no difference, but there is no difference between those applicants of the threatening letter, namely the threatening letter sent to counterparts Vlad Babic and the Brussels administration. There's absolutely no difference. Both problems target Serbia and Serbia's citizens as a state. A large number of colleagues here have said that the possibility that has been left behind, mutual co-operation between local self-government, will bring a particularly great benefit, and this has so far been envisaged and possible. Someone also mentioned a regional dump in Uzica. It was, then, done before the amendments and additions to this law. You have changed the term ‘non-governmental organisations’ to ‘association’. It seems to me that the Helsinki Committee of Serbia, the YUKO and similar NGOs have become too disgusted, and it seems to me that the citizens of Serbia have come to the awareness that we should more effectively oppose the EU-led policy. You see that individual ambassadors of EU countries condition and say when Serbia can possibly count on EU accession. I mean, when it's a condition, never, and the SRS has always spoken and advocated politics against the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40232	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40233	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Minister, respected co-workers of Mr Minister and Associates in the Ministry, honourable MPs, during this debate on the Law on Local Self-Government these days, we have listened to how important this law is for the lives of citizens and direct organisation and local self-government, which is the basic task of meeting the needs of citizens in the various segments. I will agree with most of these conclusions and suggestions, but my amendment to Article 3 refers to the proposal given to be made in Article 3. Proposal for a law amending the applicable Article 13. It is foreseen that, in accordance with the Law on Associations, this position should be amended and that the role and importance of citizens' associations which aim to highlight the specific requirements of citizens, their needs and their requirements, which are of course fine, and which are important to them in everyday life. The amendment offers the possibility of a wider integration of co-operation with other forms of civil society through humanitarian organisations and other organisations aimed at achieving the specific needs of residents in a specific area, i.e. in a specific community. That is why I think that the addition in the light of this table amendment of mine is of great benefit and that, in that sense, it should take its place in the proposal for Article 3. For example, cooperation in the local community of citizens can be realised whether citizens live in the local community, in the city or in the country and can be expressed in the form of initiatives related to, for example, building a home of health, sports playground in the local community or in the wider community, kindergarten, repair of roads, repair of electricity, roofs, facades, construction of waterways, etc. I also think... You've wasted your time. )......................................................................................................... that the law can provide for co-operation with humanitarian organisations, as well as with others, where we mean, let's say, foundations or borrowings that can be in order to meet certain needs significant in the area... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40234	You've wasted your time. Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does he want a word? Nikola Savic throws. ) You have to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40235	There seems to be something wrong with this unit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill's proposal and the law itself shows that the law does not touch at all the most important problems that arise in local self-government units. Instead, the law deals with trivial matters, of which local self-government units have no use. One of these things, one of these changes is that the law allows local self-government units to monitor European integration processes through their bodies. This isn't local self-government business. This job should be done by the foreign ministry and the European Integration Ministry, although we are in the SRS against the ministry, because we know that from the EU, European integration has nothing to do with it. If there were ever, it would be a price this country shouldn't pay. As for local self-government itself, the law did not foresee some of the most basic things, did not foresee what affects local self-government the most. We are witnessing that these days there have been a huge number of elemental disasters in a large number of local self-government territories, and instead of some of the things I've been counting here, it was necessary to find a mechanism in which the government of the Republic of Serbia will help those local self-governments that have been affected by elemental disasters in order to favour certain local self-governments, and not to say, this local self-government has the president of opposition municipalities, this one has power and then to favour certain local self-governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40236	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40237	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. The government has finally noticed that changes are necessary in the area of legislation, which concerns local self-government. However, the changes provided for by this law are only cosmetics and do not cover essential problems that are present in local self-government. For local self-government, it is not important whether it will have five, seven, nine, or 11 members of the municipal, or city council. And so far, it has been taken care of, although the law did not decidently prescribe the number of members of the council according to the number of residents. For a local self-government, it is most important that it be a true service to citizens, not a place to hire party personnel. The favouration of certain local self-governments is discriminated against by other local self-governments, as the success of local self-government depends to a good extent on the transfer funds derived from the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40238	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for 18 years Serbia has been on its way to the EU and has been forced among other things to enter the so-called. The process of harmonisation, harmonising its right to EU law, and that is what is devastating, since anyone who has ever passed a course, which is being studied in the first year of the Faculty of Law, the theory of state and rights, ie. The introduction to law knows that no law can be its own goal, but the sole goal is what should be to improve regulation in life, in this legal system, i.e. in the country. So we can't pass laws either, and it's devastating and bad to pass laws just because they're in line with that chapter and with that and that EU directive, laws should be passed that best regulate legal life in, specifically now, this case, local self-government, which is not the case now. There's a lot of inadequacy, first of all, some things around here are falling away from the notion of local self-government. If Article 13 states that units of local self-government work together to achieve common objectives, plans and development programmes, etc. It may not be the problem even if local self-government has achieved some international co-operation with some cities in other countries. This is what the government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned about, and cannot be so much of a problem, although this is not why local self-government exists and should not be targeted at all. The problem is something that says in this law, it's on the home plan when that merger happens. We have a situation, which can lead to political connotation and interpretation in this way of this member, which is that we have three municipalities in southern Serbia in which the republican government cannot achieve, i.e. to force these municipalities to highlight the state symbols of the Republic of Serbia and should now have the legal basis to join together, specifically Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, and to encourage new separatism in this way. It is not rare to hear in public how it can be a post-traumatic and exchange of territory with Kosovo so-called. and to discuss it and why they would give me the basis for such interpretations. Local self-government units can't run foreign policy. Foreign policy is governed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we need to comply with legislative proposals, amendments and amendments to the law with our Constitution, with positive regulations, not with what some commissioners, EU representatives in Serbia, and are in line with any chapter, and that is what all promoters should have in mind. Perhaps the National Assembly could also take a little more account of its foreign-political activity and not have a representative of the National Assembly Meho Omerovic, otherwise fear and shivering of duty-free zones, be in any delegation and represent the Republic of Serbia on any plan. And if it is going to be that situation, if it has to be with local self-governments, people of integrity should be sent and a little consideration should be taken of it, and, of course, the National Assembly should take care of it. My colleagues were just talking about a situation that was recent, i.e. The other day, when, scandalously, of course, the leadership of the Municipality of Sabac went to Pec and there held a meeting with representatives of the false authorities in Peća and the Shiptar terrorists, and it is scandalous and it is for every conviction and the citizens of Šapca will punish it in the next elections. I must warn you of the situation we had recently in Belgrade, when the Mirdita festival was held, the promotion of Kosovo culture. Among other things, all known Serbian traitors, such as Cedomir Jovanovic, Borka Pavicevic, etc., and two city council members from the latest are the Belgrade Assembly, the Slobodan Nakarada and Ivan Tasovac, otherwise former Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Progressive Government, the current city councilor and director of the Museum of Contemporary Art. I would like to appeal that everyone has that in mind and that first adequate punishments in their ranks are people who embarrass the Republic of Serbia and then start talking about other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40240	The word has Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40241	I thank the president. First of all, there is simply no concern about any possible territorial unification of these three municipalities in central Serbia, if I am not mistaken, and not in southern Serbia. So this is about an agreement, or an opportunity left by the law to agree on municipalities, to sign an agreement on certain matters, and that's something that really has nothing to do with some separatism or territorial unification. I remind you, therefore, it is the central part of Serbia. As for the emphasis on the state symbols of Serbia, there are also no problems in the three municipalities. I agree that sometimes, first of all, when it's flag day, we have a situation to highlight the symbols of another state and we don't argue. As far as I'm concerned, on many occasions you've said as a parliamentary group that local self-government can't run foreign policy, that's not an intensity. We agree on that, therefore, we know who is leading foreign policy, but I am talking about something else, about monitoring the process of European integration and what is timely informing representatives. I remind you again, this is done through a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, representatives of local self-government, because practically 21 chapters refer to everything that affects that end-user, which is a citizen of the local self-government in which these citizens live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40242	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40243	Mr Minister, the fact that there is no concern we also listened to in 2004, at the time of the KIM programme, and in 2008, when Kosovo declared independence on its own, and in 2010, at the time of the questions addressed to the International Court of Justice, and in 2013, when the Brussels Agreement was signed, and we keep listening, and this situation is getting worse and worse. In all these situations, your ministers and your party were in power. On the other hand, not being a problem with state symbols, I have to remind you that you've had trouble and pain to remove the monument to the Shiptar terrorists in Preshevo for more than two months and you've done it under cover of the night and it somehow showed the impotence of the state in that case. So, I'd like to ask you to make a little systematic and a little more effort to ensure respect for the national flag, coat of arms and anthem.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40244	The word has Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40245	Simply, therefore, the removal of the monument along with all the controversy it has caused does not constitute state symbols of the Republic of Serbia, and the monument has been removed, so that the state has shown that it can apply laws throughout its territory. If we're talking about the state symbols of the Serbian state, there's no problem with that, that's what I said, if you were listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40246	Thank you. National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Rade and together Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40247	Minister, you just said something that associates that you actually recognise the false state of Kosovo. You said that the state of Serbia can apply its laws throughout the territory of the Serbian state. Unfortunately, he can't. I hope you didn't mean it like that. When it comes to Article 4, he talks about amendments to Article 20, and yet there was no need to change, at least not completely. Well, what you've done about the Housing Act, maintenance of residential buildings, even though you couldn't completely erase this, because in the jurisdiction of the municipality, you have to remain this part that concerns the security of use, is meant by those old and ruined housing buildings, it must be within the jurisdiction of the municipality. I'm just going to comment on a few of these points from Article 20 that are most interesting. So you're talking about the jurisdiction of local self-government, taking care of yourself, you say, meeting the needs of citizens in the field of education, and then listing preschool, school, etc. Do you know there's an education law that says the directors are elected by the minister, so not local self-government and that's what's not good and that's what's not true decentralisation. It's about protecting, among other things, from natural and other disasters. How's she getting old? Because you don't have anti-urban missiles because the chaos in Serbia started with agricultural products because local self-governments weren't ready to do this job, and then it's said to go to a republican level, and in this law you leave it to local self-government. So, sometimes you sit in the government and you agree to have the same attitude. Nedimovic says the ministry will deal with this from now on at the level of the Republic. The old, interesting, among other things, is about protection, promotion and use of agricultural land. You may not know it, Minister, but I suppose Minister Nedimovic knows, and you should know, that nearly 400 hectares of land in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, agricultural land in a Volcheban way was issued without public advertising, without tendering and currently working commissions that need to determine who took and how many people were damaged and how many people were given that huge amount of agricultural land. It educates and edits the organisation and work of organs and organizations and services, of course we talked about it today on several occasions, nothing like this is written, and it's written in the existing law, so you didn't say anything new, but the point is that you should work on it, visit it, send inspections and really local self-government become a citizen service.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40248	You've wasted your time with the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40249	Just one more sentence. When it comes to symbols in municipalities, therefore, you wrote that it must be in accordance with the Constitution, but it must be with the consent of the Government precisely because of those municipalities you spoke of. If you are bound only by the Constitution, then it means conducting proceedings before the Constitutional Court, etc., so you must say that these municipalities can work with the consent of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40250	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40251	Thank you, President. Here are the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia who submitted the amendment to Article 4 by saying that Article 4 should be deleted. It foresees what the municipalities do through their organs, what they do, what they do, what areas they cover. In the current law, this is listed in some 39 points, because of some other laws, which have been passed in the meantime, some responsibilities that have been moved from municipal, local areas to the Republic, we still believe that the existing law and this Article 4 have been more comprehensive when it comes to local self-government authorities in order to meet the needs of their citizens. For example, you've now defined it in about 15 points, so I'd just like to point out what it is that maybe it's still supposed to be here, to arrange the use of business space, not to talk about Belgrade, the capital, all the major cities, and finally some smaller cities. Stock reserves, I don't think it's, we see what kind of situation it can be in the field when there are accidents, so, at least when it comes to fuel, and so some similar goods, they can also be the subject of stock reserves at the municipal level. Assistance in the development of cooperatives. I can see that there's one particular ministry that's propagating the cooperative, and this one's gone and we're moving him out of this jurisdiction. Of course, maintenance of residential buildings. Here, I'm just going to give you a very positive example from the Svilion Community. We made a decision a few days ago in our local SO in which way and in which areas we will deal with the fixing of facades and at all bringing into the functional status of residential buildings. Well, since we're lucky to have taken care of all the public facilities, we're left with a simple mockery of that apartment building. Of course, we also defined these decisions as the way the tenants of these buildings will participate and the percentage of which the municipality will participate in its budget. I hope that other municipalities will follow our example, because it is simply an example of good practice. I'd like to say something at the inspection service. And in these 15 points, there are no inspection services, and we know that at a local level we bring some of our acts, we're setting up an area, so we need to keep this point here, too, where we would keep our inspection services locally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40252	The minister called.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40253	I thank the president. It's simply because of the concept we've been talking about here for days, so we have 15 areas, like you said, based on the Constitution and sectoral laws, and now you've given some examples that are just coming in favor of that thesis. So, we're going to make a unique list of jobs, as I said, we're working on it, we're already 80% done, what's important is that, here, you set an example for building maintenance, the housing law is sectoral law, planning and building law. So these are all the things that represent sectoral laws, so the areas, but of course they're not kicked out of this law, and by that list of jobs, they'll all be there anyway, but it's based, it's a new model, it's based on areas defined by the Constitution and sectoral laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40254	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40255	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, concerning the amendment that my colleagues were talking about, very briefly. Of these 15 things that are in that amendment, I'll look back on only three. In doing so, I told you the day before when we talked that there was no law that could define all things and that every president of the municipality sanctioned or directed to do what was right, of course any one of them who performs this very important function must by his personal ethics and morals bring a lot of things into order. If we're talking about three things, I said, of these 15 and the one that got my attention is – taking care of the development and improvement of tourism. I come from Vrnjaka Banja, the nicest municipality, not to be paring my colleague from Srlig, but I say Vrnjaka Banja is the most beautiful municipality, we can talk about it, it's very interesting that we celebrate 150 years of organized tourism this year. Of course, I call on all citizens of Vrnjačka Banja, all of you MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come this year to Vrnjačka Banja and celebrate these 150 years of tourism. But, she says, taking care of the development and promotion of tourism, craftsmanship, hospitality and trade, we must not allow what happened to Vrnjačka Banja with bad planning, that our main promenade, the most beautiful promenade in Vrnjačka Banja, which should be renovated in months when tourism in Vrnjačka Banja is not in full swing, which is October, November, December, January, February, March, April, etc. months when those weather conditions were allowed, and this year they allowed, without any good and adequate plan in the peak of the season, the vernacular promenades would be unearthed. So my question is Minister - can you as a minister, not talk about party bodies, but about your portfolio, can you draw attention to the locals that such things should not happen? Or, number 8 says – care for environmental protection, protection against natural and other disasters, protection of cultural goods etc. We are talking about the protection of the environment, Vrnjačka Banja, not a day today as the first place in the category of tourist resorts has no problem resolved. Along with all the proposals that the president of the municipality has received that the issue can be resolved, he did not want to listen to either Vrnjaka Banja and today his garbage is being delayed on the banks of the Morava River and after every major rain or every major storm, all this garbage ends in water, goes further to Trstenik, Kruševec, etc. Under the 13th, you say, he manages municipal property. True, the municipalities were given the opportunity to manage all assets that were under the authority of the Republic. This property was given to the use and household management of municipalities. It is true that when a householder manages such property, municipalities, and all citizens living there should benefit from it. Unfortunately, I must again point out one example where the president of the municipality, since the law came into force, has sold more than Vrnjaka Banja has sold in those 150 years of organised tourism. I'm asking you, Minister, I know it can't be written in law, but that you have the right to call upon such community presidents and that when something like I'm saying here now, and I stand behind every thing that's true, call the president of the municipality, draw attention to such behavior. If you can't do it differently, ask him as Minister that such things don't happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40256	Thank you. Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Maria Janjušević submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40257	I thank the chairman. Here, this Article 4 starts the way it works, so according to the Constitution and the law, but we can't say that everywhere through this text and it's written like this specifically, it's a little unprofessionally done. So we understand that it is very important to call on the Constitution of the dry and in every place, especially at this very political moment that is very sensitive, in which it imposes on us the signing of a legally binding agreement, we would not have come to this situation if Mr. Ivica Dacic had not signed the Brussels Agreement with Vukic. He boasts these days that a growing number of states are withdrawing recognition of Kosovo as an independent state, so I hope he too will figure out to withdraw his famous paraphras from the Brussels Agreement. We don't just know if the motionary calls to the Constitution, where did you find gender equality in the Constitution? It says gender equality, and that's the only constitutional term we can use. Also, it is not precise that the rights of persons with special disabilities and the protection of the rights of sensitive groups are met. First of all, people with disabilities are sensitive groups, and this name would have to be strictly specified, so to specify exactly which are all sensitive groups, because we are in a previous period, and today we have examples of abuses, where certain interest lobby groups are undersensitive even though they are not realistically. Well, we have professional human rights fighters and various other lobby groups. So we have proposed this amendment precisely and precisely defining sensitive groups, primarily children and persons with disabilities, refugees, returnees, internally displaced persons from the area of the former SFRY, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40258	Time, thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. An MP named Srdjan Nogo submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. He submitted to Article 4 of the amendment Prof. Miladin Ševarlic. On Article 4 of the amendment, a Member of the Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40259	Mr. Minister, these powers are in Article 20. The bill and all so far the Law on Local Self-Government comes from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as you have stated here. However, some constitutional solutions have been far more precise to you and less dangerous to the functioning of local self-government than to what you have given. Even in the previous law, it's in this particular article that you're changing the part about the markings, so the use of the flag, the coat of arms and other markings is much better and it's very important. We are suggesting to you, for what, half an hour, because of the particular dangers in southern Serbia, in municipalities where certain incidents have already taken place, as well as by colleagues Seselj, it is up to you to amend this member of the law and to specify that this is possible, but only with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with the Constitution. What do we say that for? That mark, that's a very broad term. I am now not going to enter these jubilee and other awards, not to banalise this assembly debate with the fact that Dragica Nikolic received a plaque of St. George's in Kragujevac, because she is the mother of Radomir Nikolic. But when it comes to a landmark in one municipality, it can come to someone's mind, in one of the municipalities in southern Serbia to put the statue of Hashim Thaci or Haradinaj or some other Shiptar villain and say, "We are doing it because today is Haradinaj's birthday." It's a hallmark. So we voted in the assembly session, and what do we do now? By the time it comes to the Constitutional Court, while you react, put what these features are so well and it must be in line, Mr Arsic, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the consent of the Government, that we do not get into a situation, because that cell, the basic cell where they act, enemies of the Serbian people, is always the most suitable soil, and that is the unit of local self-government... (EXCLAIMS)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40260	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, co-worker, Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40261	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Article 4. The bill, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, draws attention to the obligation to apply the law throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You have regulated this law according to the EU, because the EU is your strategic goal, and Serbia's citizens are doomed. Article 4 The proposal for a law on local self-government established the jurisdiction of the municipality, i.e. the city, is said in point 10. – they refer to the achievement, protection and promotion of human and minority rights, gender equality, as well as public information in the municipality. In municipalities in Belgrade, various commissions and working bodies are formed, dealing with certain issues in the fields of culture, information, economy, gender equality, but I have not heard that any working body dealing with issues of national minorities has been formed, protecting their rights and freedoms. I do not want to withdraw, but obviously you do, given that the issues of national minorities are only being dealt with because it is an EU condition, and that you are also dealing with national minorities only during the pre-election campaign when you are giving them packages to get votes in return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40262	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, soon the state of Serbia EU law. Mr. Minister, it didn't come from you, it's, like I just said, 18 years in continuity and it's something that's not good. Article 4 of the proposal of this law refers to Article 20 of the basic law and in the first, i.e. the Law on Local Self-Government provides for tasks under the jurisdiction of local self-government, and you are now describing this as areas within the competence of local self-government. It is a procedural nature, one member who will not significantly affect the improvement of conditions in certain local communities. We could use the authority of the ministry in the coming period more, so let me also say your authority, that there are local self-governments that aren't living very well, where, the electoral process is what it is, citizens wanted to be represented by certain people in their local self-government, we have that choice but no progress, there's no improvement for citizens living in these places. Try to do a little bit of that, and one of the ways, or places where you should intervene, you said that this is about rationalizing employment, and here we're telling you from the SRS that it's not exactly like that. We don't have a dominant role in local self-government, and if we're in power somewhere, it's mostly, we're nowhere in the city's president's seat, that's what we're looking for. In many local self-governments because of the way employment can be done now, we speak only in a situation where it is necessary to employ young, professional and quality personnel so that local self-governments that are not developed can develop. The procedure used is very complex and complicated, and the government's commission decides to the greatest extent, and on the proposals of the ruling parties, above all SNS, and then from some places others, who will be employed. Try to make it a different way, not to be under these conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40264	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40265	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to get to know the public and convince the assembly majority that the amendments of the SRS are meaningful and that we want not only to propose amendments for the sake of order, but also to improve the proposals for both the Law on Local Self-Government and the poor Rules of Procedure and the lack of time for the SRS parliamentary group were also denied to say about the proposed laws, i.e. a set of other draft laws that are on the agenda. For example, in addition to this Article 4, which unfortunately has not been accepted, I would like to point to Article 5 of this law, which states: “The alderman has the right to be regularly informed about matters of importance for the performance of the parliamentary duties, and to obtain the information he needs to work on a personal request from the authorities and the municipality services. Here, Mr. Minister, there's no time limit on whether it's five or ten days, which should stand. Furthermore, Article 6a states: “He picks and solves the local Ombudsman, ” I would add,“ and the municipal defender. ” Mr. Minister, I understand that you have to comply with these laws with the laws of the European Union, but is all this good that comes from the European Union or are you in the Serbian Government just good listeners or are you independent of that famous European Union, something is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40266	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Fellow Member Nikolic Vukajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40267	Thank you. In the morning we talked about the rule of law, as one of the conditions for your entry into the European Union, and we have witnessed these days, as we are holding a session and as we hold a debate at the session on these laws proposed, we have witnessed one other thing, which is that this is a perfect system of rule by legal abuse of law, from state to local self-government. Who's gonna understand this? This will be understood by all those who are in the state administration, all those who deal with parties and all those who have been in local authorities. What I'm trying to say is that this is the state you can maintain and maintain with more laws, but what matters most is that these are the two laws that you can and how you rule in such an illegal way and legally rule. Now watch that contradiction. So it's the Public Procurement Act and the Employment Prohibition Act. Public procurement law, what are you doing with the Public Procurement Act? Do everything, you're about to draw a contractor or a service provider. And that way, what are you doing? That's how you work at the state top, and you also work in local self-government. So your people who are positioned in local self-governments in the form of government are exclusively engaged in public procurement and waiting for when it will happen. Citizens don't deal with social policy, they don't deal with business, they don't deal with economics, they don't deal with economic environments either. If the Public Procurement Act were different and you really took care of the citizens, you would see that so much money would remain if the law was implemented in a different way so that we could safely solve 50% of the social problems in each local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40268	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40269	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, here we are at the end of this marathon discussion and discussion in detail about just a few members of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. In Article 4, the most important amendment concerns the concept of determining the competence of units of local self-government, of municipalities or of the city, based on specific sectoral laws which in a comprehensive manner regulate certain areas. I would like to rely on today's discussion and give our opinion on the possibilities of inter-municipal co-operation in the pursuit of original and trusted jobs. The Serbian Radical Party believes that small units of local self-government will remain in an uninvited situation, thus setting up a joint body for two or more municipalities in practice will go very hard. Finally, I ask the question to all of you who have introduced this practice into this Parliament, have we improved or improved this very area for the lives of citizens? I don't mean small. Did we contribute to her improvement or improvement? Same answer. Not to mention all those laws, or laws that went into the package with this bill, and we sat here for three days and ten hours effectively discussing amendments to just a few members. I think no one will benefit from this discussion, and at least the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40270	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have also spoken in my previous amendments about the fact that this law has many shortcomings. I thought it was much better and more celery that a whole new law was passed. The practice on the ground has shown that this existing law, with all these changes, is unsustainable and that there are many shortcomings. One of these main shortcomings is the electoral law of local self-government units and it is indeed a stumbling block in the functioning of a large number of local self-governments. Instead of paying attention to this, the amendments and the amendments to the laws were about some things that would not improve the work of the local self-government unit. Thus, for example, Article 36 extends the powers relating to the assignment of the honorary citizen by the local self-government unit. Of course, even this provision will not improve and contribute to any improvement in the work of the local self-government unit. Speaking of this, when I mentioned this calling an honorary citizen, I appeal to all local self-governments not to assign these titles to political figures, at least not to those who are still active, because our closer and further history learns that these titles are generally assigned to those persons from the political sphere who have the greatest political influence in the world. Now, when that situation changes, then we've had many times a situation to withdraw those calls or even some time that some faces have been returning those calls.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40272	National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Marina Ristic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milena Turk has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJibuška Lakatoš was submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lakatoš, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40273	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Ministers with Associates, this member is clearly defined by a round of issues which are governed by the statutes of the unit of local self-government, rights and duties and how they are implemented, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Education is the basis of everything. It's important for each individual and it's the foundation of every social community. The basis is not only for local self-government but also for the Republic of Serbia. That is why I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 where Article 3 is added, which reads: "The realisation of the activities set out in Article 1 provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on the development of the school system". Given that the education system sometimes does not meet the needs of the economy, that trained staff cannot work in the economy and that professional professions are in the deficit, given the needs of the economy in the Municipality of Stara Paz, concrete solutions in education have been offered, i.e. New directions have been opened where professional staff are educated to be employed in companies operating in the territory of the municipality of Old Paz. Stara Pazova is a municipality that has a large number of domestic and foreign companies, a developed economy, and the introduction of new education policies contributes even faster to the development of a municipality that has long exceeded the level of municipal planning, and as a city, which is already an initiative, there will be even greater opportunities to increase the quality of life of the citizens of Stara Paz municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40274	National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenović. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Parezenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40275	Thank you. I will continue to talk about the high-quality co-operation of local self-government in the town of Chačka with the republican institutions and the special commitment I feel for this reason because there is another MP in this assembly from Cačka who likes to make a lot of noise, to criticize everything and everything, but never to praise when something good is done, as if every man should not be pleased when something is being built in his city, regardless of political commitment. And since I don't have much time, I'm just gonna list some of the important investments we've had. A protective dam on the West Morava River worth 35 million dinars, which protects over 1,000 acres of fertile hurricanes. I remind you, in 2014 and 2016, we suffered damage in agriculture in the town of Cačka of over 200m euros from the flood. The student home is in the final phase, this investment is worth about 187 million dinars, a gym for children with special needs -- 75 million dinars, the City Library, which will be one of the most modern and beautiful in this part of Europe -150 million dinars. At least a colleague Obradovic should commend it because it is the institution where he himself worked, or the only institution in which he worked in his work career. The reconstruction of the maternity site and the opening of the Angel Hall – 100 million dinars, a dam with the accumulation of "Gračkovo" – a billion and 300 million dinars, when the project is completed will be over six billion dinars and the project will provide safe water supply for more than 250 thousand Central Serbian residents and protect these municipalities from floods. When we add to all this the already mentioned industrial zone of over five million euros, the arrival of the first major investor in the last 30 years with over 1,000 employees, when we add Corridor 11 to Belgrade to Preljina and later to Bolar and the future Moravski Corridor, investments worth several billion euros, I think it is a great shame for anyone to come from Cacca without such investments being praised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40276	National MP Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40277	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have come almost to the end of this debate today. I need to look at one moment and one part of the discussion that existed in both the debate in principle and in the debate in particular, which is funding, i.e. the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget reserve to local self-government. I have heard from many MPs of the former government indeed many false things on the subject, especially when I heard in these statements the story that this is how they are rewarded, practically, those local self-governments that do not save. Personally, I think it's a really unscrupulous lie for the reason that, I'm going to mention again the example of the municipality from which I come, it's the municipality of Prokuplje. For the reason that this municipality was found in 2012 with a debt of over two and a half billion dinars. So that's the debt left by the former government and through the factor -- time, with a diligent and thriftful work, we came to the situation, so that the debt was mostly returned. However, due to an acute problem at the end of last year, which is an executive ruling again from the former government, had it not been for the transfer from the budget reserve by the Republic of Serbia, there would have been an absolute collapse of local self-government, perhaps shut down. So, the funds from the budget reserve that are being transferred to local self-government, the most common reason for the transfer is the ironing, i.e. the practical resolution of all those debts that have lagging behind from the former government period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40278	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojčić. Does anyone want a word? Fellow Jeftović Vukojčić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40279	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, one of the competences of local self-government is certainly an improvement in the position of vulnerable social groups. But before I move on to my amendment, I have to look back at the period when the government was doing the yellow company and the period since 2012, when in the most brutal way possible they robbed children distracted in development through the construction of the Toboj Castle Hetherland, which, of course, was never built, but were just robbed children with mental difficulties. The children were robbed of 157 million dinars. Unlike the yellow company that ruled until 2012, the SNS as the backbone of the new government has greatly promoted the position of vulnerable groups by opening up daily stays for children with developmental disorders both in Belgrade and in the towns and municipalities of the interior of Serbia. I must point out, i.e. to praise that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has recognised in the project activities and those related to removing barriers for access to persons with disabilities, in particular institutions, and has also identified funds for this in 2018. I must also point out that unlike the yellow company that had 30,000 invisible people, which were citizens without legal subjectivity and citizens who had no human characteristics since 2012, the SNS has managed to get out of those 30,000 legally invisible persons, mostly Roma, 25,000 persons to be enrolled in the parent books and therefore to produce all the rights that they belong to under the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40280	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bagby, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40281	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, at the interpretation of the amendments to Article 4, I will only continue that story which, due to the time limit, I was unable to complete in the interpretation of the amendments to Article 3 and these are the revised machinations that occurred most during 2016 in the Smederjevska Palanka municipality and only from March to May 2016 in his favorite Palanska cafe, former President of the Municipality of Radoslav Milojic Kena spent 457,000 on liters of beer, coffee and juice, and it was just paid through the position of the president of the municipality and municipal administration. Papers black on white show that then President Milojic spent more time in a pub than at his workplace, which is why it is no wonder that he left the municipality to the heirs in debt to the throat. in a debt of four billion dinars. In his favorite cafe "Atrium", he did not spend any money on the municipality, without public procurement, in the amount of, as I said, 457 000 in the period from 24 March 2016 to 25 May 2016. Thus, just on May 13, 2016, the "Palana Sheriff" in the coffee shop mentioned listed the amazing 139,850 dinars, almost everything for beer. So on that day or evening, municipal money paid as much as 65 bottles of "Lava", 135 bottles of "Tuborga", 143 "Heinekena", 13 lemonade and 15 squeezed oranges. Also, April 27th in Atrium listed 110. 800 dinars for coffee, soda and untapped water. On the same day in the same place, another one was made, to the soul, something more modest, because then he had coffee, squeezed oranges, lemons and water written down 60,335 dinars, and there was another bill of 53. 275 dinars. It is not all that Milojic did, but we hope that by his effective work, the Serbian judiciary will show what was done in Smederjevska Palanca, and those who are guilty will receive the fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40282	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm merely informing you that it is time to discuss in particular Article 158(4). The Rules of Procedure of 10 hours for the applicants of the amendments are spent and the right to discuss only the Members of Parliament who belong to parliamentary groups who have the time to discuss and the presidents of the parliamentary groups, who also have the remaining time to discuss. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40283	Mr. Arsic, you've informed us nicely. Unfortunately, our parliamentary group has no more time, but I'm reporting for other matters. I'm reporting under Article 107. 27, 32, and finally according to all the members of this Rules of Procedure concerning the work of the National Assembly. It's June 19th. We finished a session where there were 14 laws at a united point. We reached the fourth member of the first law to discuss it, and on June 1st, at some point, I don't know exactly what time it was, one MP Meho Omerovic, committed theft at Frankfurt airport. Is it normal for you, after 19 days, that you, like Veroljub Arsic, one of the vice-presidents of the Assembly, as well as the president of the Assembly, or your other associates, except for a colleague of Radet, who is the vice-president of the Assembly and who has also repeatedly called you to this, have no answer to the question – when will you remove that flag from the Serbian Parliament and start the shift of Meha Omerovic, as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights? When, and we have just finished discussing these laws, when will you, Mr Arsic, within your coalition, and this is a question for all of you, and also for the president of your party, to discuss it and to insist that such a man who has proved to be a sorry and miserable, a petty thief, this has not happened in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism, that someone abroad should make such a fuss and put an end to the Serbian parliament, ask him to resign as a MP? Mr. Arsic, imagine that a law that was first passed more than 10 years ago, and later had its changes on free customs zones in Serbia and that there was a free customs zone in Lapovo, and there you were near Požarevec or anywhere and that one of them began to harass and to go stealing in the free zones. Is it normal for you to finish this session today without giving us an answer to these questions?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40284	First fellow Jovanovic to inform you that free customs zones and duty-free zones are not the same, it has nothing to do with each other and none of those questions you asked me is in the power of either the president of parliament or the vice president. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. All right. My colleague Komlenski, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40285	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I would like to support the amendment submitted by my colleague from the Parliament club, Bojan Torbica, for one simple reason, because today is a very interesting day when the debate is concluded not only on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, but also on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on National Minority Councils, which was submitted by the Government, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, which was submitted by the Government, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't really believe in coincidences, and the reason I don't believe is maybe that today's article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government lies in Article 20 and is amended, among other things, Article 10(1), where local self-government is said to care for the achievement, protection, improvement of human and minority rights. I think it's very important for the Republic of Serbia, the downturn to the local level to take care of the exercise of the rights of national minorities points to two things. First, about a serious decentralisation, and it shows that Serbia has become a serious state that counts that local self-government is absolutely capable of doing so. That, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, obviously those who are not here all day, are not responding. It does not match their mentors who draw strings behind their backs and do everything to destabilize Serbia and stop it on its way to preserve the absolute equality of all national minorities living in the Republic of Serbia. Do you believe it is by any chance that letters from the Municipality of Paracin, signed by Sasa Paunovic, who invites the Committees across the Republic of Serbia, are arriving today to write against their countries on the burden of the Paracino municipality budget? Do you believe that today there is no one from the "yellow company" and those who, even at the end of the 1990s, participated in the purgatory preparations, and later on October 5th of the devastation of the public authorities, here today, together with us, if nothing else, at least verbally condemning a letter to Vlad Babic, who is just another blow to the stability of the Republic of Serbia, because touching the rights of national minorities and thus threatening the MP is something that is extremely unacceptable? No one but distinguished colleagues who attended this debate today has condemned this vandal, cowardly, insidious act in neither the assembly hall, nor in the space provided for the press conference, has even issued a statement. Is that an accident? It's not. What I expect, like all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially members of all national minorities, is to discover the creator of this idiotic, cretinous, fascist letter which cannot be called otherwise, to be brought to justice, but to seriously consider participation in this entire ujdura that is being made in an attempt to destabilise the Republic of Serbia by colleagues who are obviously not deliberately in the Assembly Hall today, so as not to be able to stay away, so that they will not speak of even verbally condemning this act. Mr Babić, all the MPs of the Republic of Serbia are with you, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are with you, all of them are with members of all national minorities, because Serbia is the only country in the region that has managed to preserve peace and stability and absolute equality and all rights that belong to national minorities. It is therefore very important that we also show this support to Mr Babic and the path to which the Republic of Serbia is going when it comes to the rights of national minorities tomorrow in the voting day and for this reason the parliamentary club of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants and the United Peasants' Party, along with all those who are patriotically mooded and who think good Serbia will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40286	The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40287	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, my commitment so far to support European laws, or the government's work with the aim of showing my own personal and party's determination to be constructive, does not produce the results that the highest state officials have given. This government and the state in general do not want institutional co-operation with Albanians, which so far has been the option we insisted on. More importance is given to some private ties and channels that aim to co-operate with one individual or group, but not to affirm the rights of Albanians. The lack of this proposal lies in the need to pass a completely new law on national councils, in line with the home laws on the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities. In Article 11, which seeks to prevent legitimate representatives of national minorities, who are in charge of political parties, to run and be elected to national councils, is a violation of the fundamental human right of every man, the right to choose and be elected. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribed that national minorities have the right to self-government in certain areas. However, in no legal act of this state, the minority self-government has been defined. This law required defining the legal status of the national council and national minorities as institutions through which national minorities exercise some of their collective rights and bearer of minority self-government. The bill did not accept the proposal to finance the regular work of national minority councils for 0.05% of the tax revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget and 0.5% of the tax revenues of the unit's local self-government budget. In the area of education, national minorities must be given the right to study topics relating to history, art, culture and tradition of national minorities in matters of particular importance, not less than 50%. I must also state the situation of lack of adequate textbooks in Albanian for primary and secondary schools. So far, practice has shown that the identity card, even passport, is not issued bilingually, or in the language and letter of the national minorities. This example is another evidence of non-compliance in the Republic of Serbia, which in any way treats the rights of national minorities. The representation of national minorities in the judiciary, police, representative bodies and other state bodies and public services and organisations is at a very low level. No matter how many decades we've tried to work together with the government, this improvement has no more competitive results of practice. In a large number of public services and state authorities, the representation of Albanians is either marginal or not. This raises the credibility of the institution in the majority population in our municipalities. This law had to reaffirm once again that Corps of Rights to National Minorities, but also lay down the procedure and way of exercising those rights. This draft law should lay down measures to ensure, under 1) political participation in representative bodies at all levels of government, particularly with regard to the candidateing of the electoral lists of national minorities in the selection process of MPs and committees; under 2) ensure that national minorities are represented in judicial authorities and below 3) ensure that national minorities are represented in state bodies. With regard to national symbols and holidays of national minorities, the Bill on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities is not given the right of national minorities to highlight their national symbols on the buildings of state bodies and other institutions. I point out that I will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40288	Mr. Hasani, I didn't mean to interrupt. Some fellow MPs say you should have. The debate is currently in detail on changes and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. In one part of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to which you are calling, national minorities have a special status in the Republic of Serbia and are subject to positive discrimination. Because of this positive discrimination, I haven't interrupted you, and I've had a lot of business and any other right to interrupt you, because the National Minority Council Act is not yet a topic. They'll come when we read these remaining amendments. So I ask you next time to emulate your discussion with the agenda point that is present, and I ask colleagues who chair the session to always make sure that they meet national minorities, when it comes to these, not to say the mistakes made by our colleague and not to sanction them. Does anyone else want a word on my colleague Bojana Bagica's amendment? (No) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Messenger Tian the Davidite. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Vera Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vlado Babic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Stojljković submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Krsto Janjusevic, submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Goran Kovacevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Blaža Knezevic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Branimir Rancic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boban Birmancevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Popovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Nikolic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mikhailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the Fourth Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vujic, you've reached out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40289	The Honorable Chairman, first of all, you have more than correctly responded to your colleague Hasania, I will return to Article 5, and my question to him has been answered, I did not want to enter into the debate, do we, too, where the national minority is going to meet as we all go out to meet? I support that you said that there should be positive discrimination here in force. When it comes to Article 5, I have one question for Mr. Ruzic. In Article 31, Article 2 is added to Article 3 and 4 which reads – the Committee shall have the right to be regularly informed of issues of importance for the performance of the committee’s duties, etc. Minister, I'm interested in how this is done in practice? Since I, as part of my fellow Members here, am a committee member in the local parliament, would like to know how I can inform the president of the assembly, the president of the municipality, the secretary of the assembly, to say that from now on they have an obligation to me to exercise my right, how did you write here, to be regularly informed of matters of importance for the exercise of parliamentary duty? The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group is voting for all the laws that are here on the agenda and this is exactly one good thing and good information for all of us who do the council work at the bar. I'm in Vranjačka Banja municipality, and as an opposition boardman, I absolutely want to be informed of everything that's going on at the bar. Why do I say that? We had a situation where multiple sales of certain land owned by the municipality and from the congregation to the congregation are sold by two plots, three plots, two plots, three plots, and slowly everything called some household treatment of the property that we have... Unfortunately, the money taken to sell such assets ends mainly on the salaries of a larger number, I don't know how, employees. Now I'm interested in whether the next time we adopt this law, they're obliged to inform me as a councilman in the local parliament about plans to sell some land? I'm asking you for an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40290	The word has a minister, Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40291	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Vujic, of course they have an obligation to inform you of the preparation of a decision that would be on the agenda of the local assembly. This provision is now in line with the need to specify that, in the event that we are now hypothetically not talking about Vranjska Banja, anywhere, the committees did not receive the necessary information, they did not receive the preparation practically for the session, to know which address the committee will address to obtain this necessary information. As far as politics is concerned, it's a simple decision that needs to find its starting point in some form. This form should produce a decision, i.e. a proposal for a decision. Now you're talking about selling land, but we can talk about some other decisions. So, you should be informed about the preparation of that decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40292	The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40293	Mr. Minister, that's exactly what I'm talking about. So, we had a situation that, as a rule, for every bidding held in the municipality where I come from, we have one interested in buying land. So, all of us councilmen only when the bidding's over, when the complete circle closes, we get information that something's being sold in the form of a notice. You have your associates, so please give me a more detailed answer. What does that mean? We had a situation where a certain land was sold, and then we say to the owner of the country, you have the opportunity to use one of the five springs. If we were in a bid to sell such a country in advance, we said that whoever buys such a country has the right to use one of the five Banese sources, which is what Vrnjačka Banja does to Vrnjak Banja, that price would probably be much higher, the number of interested would be much higher. In the end, when we got this information, we could just figure it out, feel it, we didn't have the mechanism to react any way, so please, what you just told me earlier isn't a concrete answer, is this becoming a commitment or is this our right? I can't force anyone, how can I explain it to you, just like it says - the councilman has the right to be regularly informed. I'm not preventing anyone from regularly informing me, but can you tell me what kind of mechanism or convention the president of the assembly, the secretary of the assembly, is, unless I'm specifically informed of these things that are repeated from congregation to congregation?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40294	The word has Minister Branko Ruzic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40295	It's not a replica, it's a simple explanation. So it's not us who sanction it, it's the assembly that can sanction in case someone doesn't provide you with the data, but I wouldn't be entering the political field right now. I am convinced that without a qualified, valid decision by the congregation, there could be no alienation of land. As far as bids go, it's a totally different procedure. If there was no decision at the municipality's assembly on alienation of land, then it's something that can be defined as irregularity, and as far as bidding goes, I really don't want to get into the subject of something that's been going on in practice. I think this provision is quite clear. It's not about the obligation, it's about the right you can use. We're not the ones who impose any sanctions unless we move on now. As far as the ministry is concerned, we have an administrative inspectorate, and in the event of any irregularities in these administrative matters, we can send an inspection, but it has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40296	The word is by MP Vojislav Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40297	Mr. Minister, the president of the municipality every time such sales are finished, he says, what exists in the video notes, I've covered myself with all the decisions and all the papers. I told you at the beginning, in one of the previous amendments, that the morals and ethics of each of us in the position we are in should be crucial to the functions we perform, to the functions for which the people, for which the citizens have shown us trust, but most of us can do anything. In my local parliament, most people said this, so I'm asking you to explain this Article 5, the president of the municipality has every right to buy and sell, etc., and all that comes to us is information about what he bought and what he sold. I, as a committee member of the local parliament, who was elected by 16% of Vranjak Banja citizens on the list of Dragan Markovic Palm, without any coalition partners, went out on our own, for those 16% of the citizens we have to have some answer, so ministers and you have to have an answer for me today, because what you're telling me, I have to pass on to them, I don't know who third to ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40298	The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40299	I really appreciate these questions, I wouldn't go further into the controversy, I don't have to have an answer, so I gave and provided an answer. You have a provision of the law, you have an institute of parliamentary issues, for example in the local parliament that you can set, the availability of information of public importance, and you can also use that procedural option, but I don't think it's right for me to teach you what mechanisms are available to you now, to really do what is your job, which is to give answers to that percentage of citizens who naturally voted for your committee list. Since this is already going to the field of local politicalism, I will not say fighting, but one legitimate statement of political views, I, as a minister, cannot really participate. So that's not my part. I can when I get out of this room or if I'm at some party rally, and now I really don't want to talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40300	On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Sreto Peric, the MPs of the SDS, together Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas, submitted their MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Nenad Šulkic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic, together with the MPs of the SDS, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Mariana Maras. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Sreto Peric and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marijana Maras. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Alexander Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted together to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Neđo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Mariana Maras. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Vladan Zagradjan. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Neđo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Vojislav Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40301	Mr. Minister, here's what you were telling me earlier, that they need to comply with the statutes. This is where article 41 says. - units of local self-government will comply with their statutes and other general acts with this law within nine months of the entry into force of this law. In nine months, these men of mine in Vranjska Banja will have nothing left to sell, and I'll have nothing more to defend there. That should be your answer to the question I just asked you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40302	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move on to a search in detail on item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Completing Law on State Administration You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Alexander Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Ružica Nikolic and together Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we are this review of the draft law in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in detail and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE BOOKS You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. I would like to inform you that Parliamentarian Stefan Miladanovic has withdrawn the amendments in writing to Article 25, and you have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the proposal by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Amendment Bill, the People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Natasa Jovanovic was submitted to the amendment bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ljiljana Mihajlovic, MP, submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Savic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Marina Ristic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliament MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we are this review of the draft law in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in detail and in general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, acting unanimously. 161 points 4 and 163 of point 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendment of the People's MP Momčal Mandic to Article 4 which is being amended in Article 21(1). The rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Filip Stojanovic and MP Bozidar Delic submitted the amendment's proposal in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vukadinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40303	Thank you. Here, it's happening again from the previous several times, ten hours scheduled for the amendment debate to pass, and we've done literally, here I've been counting, one tenth, so we've reached the fourth member, the first proposal, the first item of the agenda on the basis of the first law. From 14 points we reached the first, and the first four members of the first point, with the first point, or the first law, having 40 members. So one tenth of a fourteenth. It's about a balance viewed mathematically. Of course, in the meantime, everything was discussed and more or less turned into some kind of EPP and commendation of the government's work and particularly criticism of the opposition, mainly here by the absent opposition. I have patiently waited here now to call me, to simply give an example of what it means when you have a concrete amendment that proposes, it is about the Agency Act, which deals with this, or suggests that the mandate, or membership to the boards of directors and members of the boards of directors of public agencies, can be 10 years, i.e. there are no two re-elections, but one re-election and one choice. Since it's five years, five times two is ten years, I think it's perfect, because we think it's more than enough that everyone who shows and contributes, is that right, who we hope for a reason are elected or elected to perform these responsible duties. So for both directors and board members, two choices, or one re-election, one choice, that's 10 years. We felt it was appropriate and I must admit that I am surprised that this amendment of ours has not been accepted, and this remains with two re-elections, or the possibility of being 15 years. I would really like the minister to comment on and explain why this amendment is not, in fact, why he thought it would take 15 years for the ministry to be able to perform these duties, and let's say 10 is not enough, which I think it is, and we think it is. But I'm saying, all of this now seems kind of pointless in this whole atmosphere, where our chairman is very successful and quick to read these points and suggestions, because the time for discussion is gone and only a few of us authorised representatives or presidential groups have the opportunity to say something. So, by the way, the answer to the question of colleagues who have asked here several times – why is there no opposition? I have no idea why he doesn't. Everyone has a reason not to be here or to be, but realistically speaking, and it is in vain to expect the representatives of the opposition to sit and participate in this, which is, of course, a kind of farce or to call a milder – play. So it's a kind of show. You know that the play, I know it's a play and it's not good for anyone, and it's not by any chance that our president, she's often said it herself publicly, she's having problems and she has to answer questions from abroad when she's asked about that practice of these amendments. So here's a concrete amendment, a specific question for the minister -- why not 10, but you've left the possibility for 15 years, and I might call again or not. It's just, I think the public and anyone who follows could understand the essence of our amendment, which in most cases was not the case during these three days. I must admit that I am sorry that some colleagues or colleagues of at least two opposition groups have accepted this game, so now they too are submitting a sea of amendments they know will never come to order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40304	Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40305	Well, for the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Vukadinovicu, you entered the National Assembly room 15 minutes ago. I don't know how you're not ashamed to say how we've been discussing the amendments for three days. You don't discuss it at all. These people sitting here, MPs of the SNS, MPs of the Socialist Movement, 80% of the MPs explained their amendments. People defended the SNS programme and policy, or parties to which they belonged. You go into the O.R. for 10 minutes and then you tell the citizens of Serbia -- here we are for three days... No, you, Mr. Vukadinovic, are sitting in the O.R. for 10 minutes. There's one more thing to tell you, but don't get me wrong. You came here as if you had come under some tent, explained, contrary to any code of dress and clothing in any European and world parliament, and then lecture us on democracy, about how pointless this is, etc. If this is all pointless, why do you receive wages as a MP? Why do you receive wages like all these people who sit at eight, 10, 12 hours here in the National Assembly and fight for the rights of Serbian citizens, for the rights of those who ultimately elected MPs? No, but you're waiting for the last hours and the last minute of discussion in detail, you show up at the National Assembly and say, "Here, I've come, I've been taking part in the debate for three days." What kind of debate do you take part in? You're not involved in any of these. As far as I'm concerned, I don't care. You don't have to participate, but don't tell the truth about how you've been killing yourself for three days from work, you, DS, Dveri, these Tadics, etc. Let me tell you something, the most common sloths, lazy bugs. You will not do it and it is wrong for you that SNS MPs are doing what they are fighting for, which is submitted to the amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to present all positive examples from their local self-government of what the Serbian government and the President of the Republic of Serbia have done for the citizens of Subotica, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Vranja, Loznica, Sapca and all other cities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40306	I thank my colleague Martinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40307	Article 107(1) MPs, the job of the MP is to participate in the debate and to try to amend the law with amendments. For which reasons the MPs do so, that's their business, they absolutely have a right. We MPs of the SRS submit amendments in as many numbers as we think it is necessary and all of our MPs participate in the work every day, not just today and not only when it comes to these draft laws. We want to contribute to our amendments, to suggest that the ruling majority vote in favour of some of our amendments and the minister present to eventually accept one of our amendments. It is truly unacceptable for someone who walks into the National Assembly once a week for 15 minutes at this time at 6:30 p.m. when the Assembly may be watching to tell how, behold, he does not understand why MPs of one part of the opposition submit this number of amendments when they know they will not be accepted. It's an absolutely unacceptable explanation. Whether an amendment will be accepted or not, it is not known until the debate is over and the vote is completed. We are not part of the opposition, we were Serbian, we were doing it anyway, and this debate is saying, the only opposition parliamentary group in the National Assembly. We're not part of the pack, we're not part of some bulum collected from the stakes and ropes. Those who once seemed impossible to put together, now they're made up of one tycoon, one ambassador, and that's their thing, too. We don't interfere with them, but we don't allow them to interfere with the work of the SRS parliamentary group in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40308	Comrade Radeta, are you asking us to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The right to replica has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40309	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the esteemed colleague Martinovic spoke and had a two-minute and 40-second replica, not so much, but I am simply asking you to respect that fact. So, I don't know why my colleague Martinovic is nervous, on the side which is false, I could also advertise the Rules of Procedure, as many colleagues here in the ruling majority advertise. First, least importantly, I am decently dressed, especially given that MPs come in short sleeves, secondly, it's warm, summertime, and thirdly, the head of state and head of your party, Mr. Martinovic, lined up guards and soldiers in jeans, so then I can sit in my shirt, as Mr. Seselj and some other MPs here do. So that's the side thing. As for the presence in the Assembly, even you know that I am here much more than the representatives of most of this opposition or those sitting in these benches. On the third hand, if you'd followed the session closely, you'd know that only during the present day, I've come now because I've been doing something else, and I've been on questions this morning, and in the meantime I've been talking about the amendment, about an hour or two or so. So, this morning I was asking questions for the government, talking about my colleague Milicevic's amendment, and I haven't been able to use this time. In any case, who is lazy, who is not lazy, it will be tried by Serbian citizens. Also, what it means to spend time and money, ultimately, the citizens of Serbia at the debate of this type in the Assembly as we have led it now, it will also be tried by some public. After all, when you talk about numbers, I think the opposition's representatives are boycotting the debate, I'm not sure, I'd like them to say it loud and clear. The fact is, there's no room here, I've counted, there's no more than 18 to 20 representatives from the ruling coalition, and you're 140. So the fact that I'm here, and there's twenty of you, that's also saying that MPs of the ruling majority didn't exactly kill themselves and break up with the presence and numbers here, Mr. Martinovic. But I don't think that's the most important thing. I've asked a specific question, I'd like the minister to answer, and in general, I don't think we contribute to the dignity of the Assembly that we often advocate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40310	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40311	As for clothing, Mr. Vukadinovic, you probably think of it, Alexander Vukic was looking at the Serbian Army in jeans and in a jacket, winds in the Pasuljan meadows where the temperature may have been a few degrees above zero. Tell me, Mr. Vukadinovic, when did Alexander Vukic show up at the National Assembly, and when he was in opposition and now he's in power, dressed like you? It never is. So much for respecting Parliament and so much for parliamentaryism. You who lecture us on some kind of ethical code, you know, we're in a bit of a weird situation right now. They don't let journalists into the National Assembly because, for example, they're dressed like you, but people's messengers like you can, so get up, here, let the people see you. Rise and shine, as if you were going to the store to buy a beer. Stand up, go ahead, let the people see you. Get up, what are you afraid of? You come out ten minutes and -- here, this is all pointless, this is all nonsense. What's the matter? Should we grant you power? To you who ruined the state of Serbia without a fight? That SNS MPs who enjoy serious support, over 60% of Serbian citizens, and that we listen to you, Aleksandra Jerkov, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Boška Obradovica, you, after all, Mr Vukadinovic? Who do you represent? Here, I now ask you Serbian – what political party is represented by Djordje Vukadinovic in the National Assembly? You belong to a parliamentary group, I don't know what your name is anymore, New Serbia, the Serbian Rescue Movement. Are you in New Serbia or are you in the Serbian Rescue Movement, and you've been selected from the DSS-Dveri list, if I'm not mistaken? I've already forgotten, in 2016, it was a long time ago, here MP groups are forming and breaking up on a daily level, then you go into the O.R. and you say – what these SNS MPs are playing, that's all acting, that's all nonsense, etc. You spent more time, Mr. Vukadinović, you and your colleagues in a congregation restaurant than you were in the O.R. I repeat once again, and you're angry with the will, you're lazy bugs. You didn't learn to work. You don't have a work phone. You don't have work habits. While I was also in the SRS, I learned to sit in the National Assembly Hall, sit for eight hours, ten hours, 12 hours, and when the sessions lasted until midnight and after midnight and when they lasted until eight o'clock in the morning, I sat down.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40312	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40313	You can't sit half an hour in continuity. Here, I asked the Deputy Secretary General to get me as far as you were present today at the National Assembly. You say you were on a parliamentary matter, you asked a question, you went outside and you entered the National Assembly room twenty minutes ago. I'm not nervous at all. As far as I'm concerned, you can come and not come, that's your will. But I won't stand for the unemployed to lecture on democracy, on the rule of law for the people of the SNS, and on the colleagues of the SRS who sit here, you who come to the hall touristically, dressed like you're now walking down Prince Michael's street.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40314	Neđa Jovanovic, replica. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Replica. () Slowly, colleague Vukadinovic, you have already made three replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40315	There were several grounds for reporting, one is the Rules of Procedure, the other is a replica. I am reporting for the replica, although a harsh insult has been made at the expense of MPs of the ruling coalition, including the SPS, which is under one to submit pointless amendments. I personally think that none of my colleagues, both in the SPS and in the SNS and other parties, are at that level aware that they are submitting meaningless amendments, and in these pointless amendments have been actively involved and discussed together with a respected minister here. On the other hand, it is not true that the amendments are without any fact, given that yesterday we witnessed that some amendments have been accepted and that the respected Minister Ruzic has assessed the amendments with quality and with the contribution to improving the law was adopted in yesterday's debate. Today's debate took place in the same spirit. I don't think we should allow anyone, and at least those who, according to the amendments in this way, are discussing a demagogue approach, because if it wasn't demagogue then those who submitted 300 amendments to a set of education laws, if I remember correctly from these benches on the other side, would also have dared to assess the work of submitting the amendments - is deleted, without any meaning. If we don't have consistency and principledness, then we better not answer, then we better not discuss anything, because we're only expressing our inability to change anything especially in the way it's being said, and in any case in an unacceptable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40316	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. (Jorge Vukadinovic: I didn't mention him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40317	You mentioned Mr. Seselj, and if you were to happen to know the Rules of Procedure, then you would know when the party president or party president is mentioned that the authority representative has the right to replicate. And it really is one of the reasons why I answered, to compare myself with Mr. Seselj, and I'm talking about Gjorge Vukadinović, is simply amazing and nothing is caused – here, I came in my shirt as Mr. Vojislav Seselj comes too. It is absolutely inappropriate, Vojislav Seselj comes decently dressed, Mr Vukadinovic. There are two more things to be said here, first of all, for the sake of the public, this demagogue story of how much it costs to discuss in the National Assembly is absolutely unacceptable. Serbia is a democratic state, this is a multi-party parliament, it means parliamentary democracy, it means debate, and as far as we are concerned, we think it's a little time to discuss and it's recalculating how much it costs, it's absolutely pointless, and only those who advocate the abolition of democracy can say that. According to Mr Vukadinovic, part of the opposition, he thinks, boycotts parliament's work. Well, now, if I were to use that populism and that demagogue, then let's just say, when they're boycotting work, what do they get paid? Of course, they have the right to boycott and have the right to receive wages during that period, but I'm just saying how someone here is trying to present the work of Parliament to the public. And this is the so-called. The boycott and this when it comes only to ask questions and mainly to be insulted by the state, it is one of the types of special war currently in place in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40318	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as this last discussion is concerned, I have nothing to notice, I think it's less clear. As for Mr. Martinovic, you will not line me up with Mr. Martinovic, lift and examine. Like me and you and God and most of your deputies sitting there sitting there or maybe not now know, that what's going on with these amendments, how angry you've been attacking me and being where I am or where I'm not, is actually a way to deprive myself of those 600 minutes, of those 10 hours of debate, to deny the opposition, in this part of the possibility of saying something and criticizing the government. It's legitimate, like the legitimate and submission of all these amendments. Yes, but the fact is that, look at only the reasons and arguments the government rejected, means the largest number of 99.9% of these amendments, they said that you, and this is written in the light of the rejected amendments, that this bill does not apply to and does not concern the relationship between the state administration and local self-government, in other words it was a uniform explanation and an explanation with which all these amendments were rejected. In some ways, the government has said that they are kind of pointless and that it is a maneuver. I don't even justify colleagues who have misused it on their own time, but once or twice, you've been doing it since December, ever since that budget debate. So I don't justify any colleagues who have also submitted amendments to each member of the law once or twice. That's what it's all about. As for who's lazy, who's valuable, you won't judge me either, and I think I've demonstrated enough in my life to show value and work. But it's not about that, Mr. Martinovic, it's about this noise, this constant investigation of some hidden motives and the reasons why someone says and works. You produce an atmosphere like that story about a shepherd and a wolf or a grandmother and a wolf who kept yelling – it's a wolf, it's a wolf. So it's a conspiracy, it's a coup, it's an attack, at the end of the day when the wolf shows up no one ever trusted that shepherd or that grandmother anymore. So, you seem a little bit real to me, Mr. Martinovic, like this hot dog and that grandmother who is constantly and not just you, who are constantly seeing some conspiracies, hit with this protest of a driver who's been for a few days, so he stopped, as well as some other protestes himself, are immediately guilty of secret plans, cultival actions and everything else. Unfortunately, I would say, Mr. Martinovic, the only thing that is being covered up here and trying to counter, among other things, this debate, is the fact that your and ours, unfortunately, president, is going to talk to Hashim Thaci in Brussels on Sunday, even though the representatives of the Serbian authorities, and that is a little more important than who's dressed, I'm dressed decently and as other colleagues more or less. But for us, it is not very polite that it is a violation of some other more important ethical codes, that with the denial of Mr. Mark Djuric and the representatives of our government, and of the Serb lists, and the representative of the Serbian government, we will not continue the Brussels talks until what? One, they don't discover murderers, expose Oliver Ivanovic's murder, and the other doesn't form a community of Serb municipalities. Despite the clear and from the highest places of these claims, the pronunciation, now, here, right now, that's the topic we need to discuss, not who's dressed up. So today we are preparing to go to Brussels for a new round of Brussels talks, a new meeting between Mr. Vukic and Mr. Thaci. A little more on that, Mr. Martinovic, especially you who boast of your values and your patriotism and your dignity. And who am I representing? I represent those same attitudes that I have represented, therefore, and all these years in public, and by which the public recognizes me more or less, moderately, patriotically, unextremely, not excessively, but in any case to protect minimal, elemental dignity. I don't think it's in the spirit of that dignity to say that you won't go to Brussels and go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40320	Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40321	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's the thing about numbers. Yesterday, Mr. Djordje Vukadinovic was in the O.R., his card was, to be perfectly precise, his card was in the MP's unit, whether he was physically in the O.R., I didn't follow it, I don't do that kind of research. His credit card was in the system two hours and 48 minutes yesterday, and today, imagine, much more three hours and 54 minutes. The session started today at 10:00. Now I ask you, Mr. Vukadinovic, here, if it isn't a secret, and if you haven't conducted some important state and political talks, and where have you been all this time while the MPs sat here, debated, debated, otherwise their mission, which is their job, and what, after all, they're getting paid? You were talking about the pay of the People's MPs, so look at the... (Jorge Vukadinovic: I didn't talk.) You say this all costs. Well, you know, democracy is an expensive toy. What's the alternative? To introduce a political system without political parties. Where is it? All of you who spray like a soap bubble because your parties crack, all of a sudden you become against political parties. While your parties are in power, the party is great, and when the party falls apart, e, you know, the political party is expensive, which we need the political party, I represent. You, as I recall, were, as the list was called, a joke. Come on, tell us in which modern European country the list is called – none of the answers offered. I heard there they have those exotic lists in Iceland and Norway, some pirates and pirates, Yogi flyers, and you're like this Saša Radulović, enough, I think, that's that level of politics, living wall in Croatia and so on. So it's a political orientation that doesn't make any sense, which doesn't have any programme, which entered parliament by accident, and that probably will never enter parliament again. As for Alexander Vukic, we said – we will not fulfill any more points in the Brussels Agreement until the community of Serb municipalities is formed and we will talk. Not because we're comfortable, not because Alexander Vukic is very glad he has to talk to Hashim Thaci, but because, Mr Vukadinovic, we don't have another alternative at this point but to talk. So we need to talk, because it is about the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. If you have a better solution, great. Is that a military solution? Are you ready to wear a uniform? Are you ready, Mr. Vukadinovic, to put on your uniform? You might want to put a girdle on, put your boots on, put a gun on your shoulder and go defend Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija with a weapon? I doubt it. Your stomach is big, Mr. Vukadinovic. It's hard to fit in a soldier's uniform. So don't play the great hero and the great patriot here. Why is Wolf going to talk? What's he supposed to do? To mobilize you? Will you respond to the call for mobilization? Where were you in 2004 when the persecution of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija took place? Where were you in 2008 when Kosovo and Metohija declared themselves to be godless independence? You were doing public opinion research, taking money, little of this, little of that party, little of the National Lottery of Serbia. And then you come to the National Assembly for an hour or two and give us a lecture.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40322	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40323	We're all assholes, this is all pointless, this is all stupid, etc. So get out of the National Assembly if it's stupid, we're not stupid. We've been chosen by the people to work. You've been chosen, but you won't work. What would the people say? You will have bread without distraction. We want to introduce a cult of justice in Serbia. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Replica, Arsic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40324	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] By amendment, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40326	Well, according to the amendment when I didn't get the replica, even though what Mr. Martinovic said also required by the Rules of Procedure a response and a reminder to give it. You know, the elemental thing and what's very close to the bottom of every communication, not just parliamentary, but every civilized communication, it's to tell about others what they look like, what they're dressed like and whether they're beautiful, ugly, fat or thin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40327	A colleague of Vukadinović, in accordance with Article 107. Continue your work rules as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40328	Excuse me, Mr. Arsic. Take it easy. Okay, thanks. So I can't help but look back at you for not giving him a warning. I can get the Rules of Procedure up, but I don't do it here. Like I said, I don't want to waste my time that way. You too have a lot of things, sir, big things and here your colleagues have been paying attention to, Mr. Martinovic, what's big and what's not, and they've done pictures and cartoons to you and everything else. I won't do it, of course, but it's very ugly, this is now a serious political matter, completely independent...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40329	My colleague Vukadinovic, for the second time, I remind you to imitate your discussion with Article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40330	My fellow Arsic, I appreciate your concern for the Rules of Procedure, but it's very interesting that you didn't have that kind, so here's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40331	My colleague Vukadinović, I had that kind of value when I let you explain your amendment for the first time and you talked about everything, just not the amendment and you made here one avalanche of replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, do you want to check the stenogram?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40332	Check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40333	Now, because you've done this, abused my trust and my desire to be in parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40334	Uh, your trust...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40335	To finish Mr. Vukadinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40336	But in my time, you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40337	We'll figure out your time, that's the least of the problems. My desire for parliament to be one spirit of tolerance abused. So now we're going to work exclusively on the Rules of Procedure. So, in your amendment to Article 3 in paragraph 1 they have words that are changed and said - in Article 17(1) after the words "named", the words "one more time" are added. That's what the discussion is about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to keep an eye on what's in my amendment. If you had listened carefully, then you would have realized that I had said it three times and asked Mr. Minister twice about it. So it's not true that I didn't talk about the amendment, either equally, more or not much less than they did and various colleagues during these two or three days of debate and that they used all the time, all the time using it to attack the opposition, often and inconspicuous here people and leaders or potential leaders of the opposition. So you didn't warn them, Mr. Arsic. My amendment is clear, our amendment is clear and our question, I repeat it, but you will not shut my mouth in this way, you can take away my word of course, the amendment regarding whether it is enough for 10 years or whether it takes 15 years to allow membership on boards, i.e. management posts, or directorial posts of these public agencies. We thought it was enough for two mandates, not necessary for a third of five years, it doesn't matter. That the minister can take a position on it and say it or not, but that you, Mr Arsic, as well as colleagues of some of the ruling majority, and above all Mr Martinovic and others, are thus denying, of course, that these lines will be empty for you. You really believe that people will sit and listen to how you attack them or you Arsic, but some others on the other side of this hall, and they don't get a word of it, they don't get punishment, warnings or take away their words if they say something, or insult in this way that Martinovic tried to insult me, and he was actually just talking about himself. The last thing, Mr. Arsic, or Mr. Martinovic, is, therefore, not only can the Assembly not function and lead, and you will make it a desert, as are the deserts and your ranks. Count it out, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40339	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Direct address, article 107, not respecting the agenda theme, challenging replicas. Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40340	In order for Serbian citizens to know, I am trying to do my job responsibly and I am trying to do it the best possible way. If I do it like that, they'll assess the competent authorities in my party. But, Mr Vukadinovic, as far as these amendments are concerned, you and one part of the opposition, in the absence of any concrete policy, it is your policy to criticise SNS MPs for submitting amendments. Again, the figures are inexorable and again the figures speak contrary to what you are trying to do, or what you are trying to convince the citizens of Serbia. In this assembly, the opposition has, therefore, submitted more than 30,000 amendments since 2016, and MPs belonging to the ruling coalition have submitted 3,000 amendments. So, 3,000 amendments to me and 30,000 amendments to you. So don't talk about the amendments being pointless, because then it turns out that the largest number of nonsense came from your ranks, because you have submitted many, many more amendments than SNS MPs and the Socialist and SPS Movements, etc. It is our right to submit amendments. There is a division of power in this country. We are the legislative authority. Mr Branko Ruzic is a representative of the executive government. Of course, every MP strives for the government to accept his amendment, but not at all costs. We, through our amendments, affirm the programme and the policy of the SNS, and it's completely legitimate, it's totally in line with the Rules of Procedure, and we're going to keep doing it. What I want to ask the representatives of a part of the opposition that is not here – what do you think these people are chosen here to play the punching bag one Keni, one Aleksandra Jerkov, you, Sandy Raskovic Ivić, Bosko Obradovic, and that you have a monopoly on the debate in the National Assembly, and that we should keep quiet, we who have won the trust of 60% of Serbian citizens and who have raised Serbia from the mud that we were thrown into by those who took over in 2000? We need to remain silent here, suffer the worst possible insults, not just insults, physical attacks, which were here both at the National Assembly president and on certain MPs, etc. As for the reminder, don't let me remind you of the time when your friends and colleagues from the DS managed this country, when I, including my other colleagues, was getting a warning on this button. A rule has been introduced that there are parts of the Rules of Procedure that cannot be advertised, and then, if you report for the violation of that and that member of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. The entire assembly of MPs was then expelled from the National Assembly Hall. MPs who were not even present were expelled physically were not present in the O.R. So you pray to God that those times do not return.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40341	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40342	Thank you, Chairman. This is again a replica that lasted four minutes of fellow Martinovic. It cannot diminish the fact, as long as it lasts, that Mr. Martinovic, and you, Mr. Chairman, missed it to sanction, the most direct and rude here insulted me, personally, politically, physically, therefore, calling it how much I do, whether I do enough. Well, I do, Mr. Martinovic, God knows, people know, I do pretty much. Your colleagues know that, too. As some of your colleagues are also a little ashamed of these practices and do not participate in the work in it, these practices of submitting amendments. No one should be a punching bag to anyone. I'm the last one standing up for it. I'm always about to respect both states and institutions, and ultimately, the relationship of forces that says that you are the majority. Also, if you look at your soul and your heart, or just in the state of things, because I don't get into how many hearts and souls you have, you'll know that I didn't insult from here, mostly sometimes I say something sharper, I get more criticism, attacks and insults, and mostly I didn't respond to them. Like I said, I don't want to put this Rules of Procedure in principle. Of course, Mr. Arsic, that you should, I can see that you're getting ready to say something, that you need the ruling majority to have space, and there is, she has more time to debate in principle, too, can be intervened in amendments, and support some suggestions. It is not disputed that you should support the government, but here, state to me, Mr Martinovic, I ask you, may Mr Arsic answer me, since he is also preparing to talk, in which country, state, give me an example from a parliamentary practice, since you mentioned democracy, etc., in which country in the amendment parliament are submitted by representatives of the ruling majority on the government's proposals? Is that what you're telling me? I can be the worst, humpiest, lazy, ugliest, dumbest, etc., but is there a country of parliamentary democracy today where representatives of the ruling majority submit 400 or 360 amendments to the first members of the first law and in fact prevent debates at other points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40343	Thank you. A colleague of Martinovic, both you and your colleague, Arsic, responded for the replica. You are both mentioned in the presentation of counterpart Vukadinovic. Col. Martinovic certainly has the advantage, given that he is head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me read what you do when you're not in the National Assembly Hall, and you tell me if I've ever done this for any of you. So, you tweet in your spare time, for your spare time, otherwise in Parliament's working time. Here's what Mr. Gjorge Vukadinovic says about insulting you. I don't know if you have children, Mr. Vukadinovic, but who gives you the right to ask Minister Stefanovic on Twitter, clearly alluding to Danil Vukic, son of Aleksandr Vukic, when Minister Stefanovic will connect, as you say, some persons from the stadium in Samara with some faces and places and why not? Well, how are you not ashamed, Mr. Vukadinovic? How can you not be ashamed? Did you think, here, tell me, when I mentioned the child to any of you? When did I mention anyone's child? You're the only person who deals with the Wolf's family, and you do it in a senseless way every day. Well, why does someone have to be guilty just because his father is president of the Republic at some point? What, can't an adult go to the football World Cup in Russia and watch the game? But you ask Minister Stefanovic – and what will Danilo Vukic do in Russia? How could you not? Well, who were you thinking of? Here, I'm asking you now. Now that you ask me, I ask you, who were you referring to? You meant him. You've been thinking about Daniel Wolfie, just like you do every day, because you don't have any other policies. Vukic's brother, Vukic's son, Vukic's dad, his father's a chiptar from Kosovo, that's your policy. It's Milovan Brkic's policy, it's a tabloid policy. And then, instead of sitting in the National Assembly room, you tweet things like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40345	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remember a much worse time than when this Rules of Procedure was brought in 2010. I remember, for example, that an entire group of MPs could have submitted an amendment to only one member of the law. Such a Rules of Procedure were brought by those sitting around Mr. Vukadinovic. It's a society and it's a way to silence the opposition, not today. Parliament is the place, except that laws are passed, where political discussions are conducted, political inexperiences are being brought forward, political views should be put forward and so should be. That's how it's supposed to stay. The former regime and their MPs were as lazy as they were now, of course, that they did not want to go through the discussion to oppose the opposition at the time, so they made provisions that only one amendment could be submitted to one member of the law. Now they're telling me we're not democratic. We are! We want to participate in the work of the National Assembly. We want to defend our political stance. We will, if we may, cross political arguments along with them. They won't do it. They can't. They want us to keep quiet and they want to talk and they want to decide the time when and how much to talk, because they don't want to sit in the hall and wait their turn. That's what this is about. He is right, counterpart Martinovic, when he says someone walks right into the chosen time, right at the chosen time to make accusations that the ruling majority is devising parliament's work, he does. Someone liked it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40347	Thank you, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40348	Fellow MPs can enter the National Assembly Hall and participate in the debate. Will he or won't he? It's their right to fight politically. All I know is that many who gave up that right were not after the next elections in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40349	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40350	Thank you, Chairman. I notice that I was not answered by the question, although both colleagues had a chance to respond for two or more minutes. I'm not being held accountable. They didn't give me an example of Parliament where this practice exists, and that's enough for me. So there is no such example, neither to me, nor to you obviously a familiar example where MPs of the ruling majority submit several hundred amendments to the first members, the first law, the first item of the agenda. That's the point, dear colleagues. That's what these observers resent, some blackmailers of some international institutions I don't trust very much, but sometimes even they're right. The other thing, therefore, of course, Mr. Arsic, is you're right, and I won't argue with you that it was safe and what you're talking about. There must have been abuse, there must have been boast of the ruling majority, and that's why they're former now. If you'd listened a little bit better and more carefully to my discussions here, you'd understand the well-meaning of the discussion. Of course, I am not yours, if I were, then I would sit there among you, but you have seen both the well-intentionedness and some loyalty to the institution and the state, but I pretend not to see what your MPs see and what those who have the patience to see, the citizens of this country, that these discussions on amendments are actually used only for the senseless attacks and criticism of the opposition and expect the opposition to sit there to be truly illusory. I'm a masochist a little bit or saved. My colleague Atlagic also knows that, after all, and he has repeatedly given me this confession to sit more than any of my colleagues, but neither do I praise myself, nor do I criticize them. It's just like that. What's the point, this institution won't be able to function, if you're not immune to at least hearing some criticism, not attacking the family, this is a little bit of nonsense that Mr., my previous colleague, has read, so I can explain to you but not in this way...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40351	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40352	Just a second, since I've been called directly. So, of course I tweet. I was more alluded to the environment, to some people who found themselves in that picture, who were allegedly security-interesting. So, some people who are from the criminogenic environment who found themselves in that picture from the stadium and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40353	Continuing Replication Circle Here you go, Mr. Martinovic. [[Marko Atlagic: Replica menu.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't answer my word again. This tweet was written by a previous speaker at six o'clock and 17 minutes. Afterwards, you entered the O.R. and began to insult the MPs of the SNS and other fellow Members of the People for submitting meaningless amendments. I said I'd stay on it. The previous speaker, according to Nusic, is a municipal child, he is nobody. When you ask him, are you power? I didn't. Are you an opposition? I'm not even an opposition. What party do you belong to? I don't belong to any of them. Do you support Vuk Jeremic? A little bit. Where are you? Who do you belong to? What are your political views? I have no idea. You're not serious about having any reasoned political discussion with you. Don't, Marco, please, answer the word. Don't, please, answer the word. We give a great deal of attention to one individual. You know, political parties are represented in parliament. Political programmes are being represented in parliament. We are the only parliament, unfortunately, in which the MP represents himself little because of the wrong electoral legislation, little because of the not very happy law on the National Assembly, little because it is not respected until the end of the Serbian Constitution. There's everything. All in all, please fellow SNS MPs, don't answer the word again. You belong to a large, strong, powerful political party run by a man who enjoys the trust of more than 60% of Serbian citizens. Don't waste your time with a community kid. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40355	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. My colleague Atlagic, you still persisted and wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40356	When I was already challenged by Mr. previous speaker from the opposition, I must say, as Mr. Martinovic said, he was here three hours yesterday and two hours today. I ask the question -- how long was Nenad Canak here in a year, how much was Kostresh in a year, how much was from the former regime anyone, let's go from the first bench to the last, during the day? They're gone at all. I am now studying the current parliamentary system between the two wars and the 19th century. Here in the records above, our librarians know this well, never in the history of parliamentaryism have we, ladies and gentlemen, had a worse opposition – not a working, not a political, no ideas and no programs. Their biggest problem is to come to the House of the National Assembly and be half an hour here. The weird thing is, they don't have any ideas. They're gone, and they're getting paid here. It says in our Rules of Procedure that at the end of the month it is counted. Once again, we have never had a worse opposition in the history of parliamentaryism. They're gone. They're just lesbians and freebars. I have the courage to tell you that. Tell me when was Mr. Kostresh here in the last year? When was Chanak? When Cedo Jovanovic was in the last four months, and he knows how to speak and criticize the president of the state and the state this, he was ashamed of it, and advocated the secession of Vojvodina from Serbia, as well as Sasa Jankovic, and Nenad Canak, the stern one, and the mass of others? You think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia don't see it. And how well they see it. There is no reason to be afraid of you, as Mr. Martinovic said. We're not a punching bag here, but you gentlemen are chosen to fight political battles with us in ideas, in programs, in competition, in work, in responsibility, but you came here in pajamas, out of bed you came here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40357	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40358	Article 27. You should have warned your colleague Atlagic. I've been me or one of us in the SRS have intervened several times. We don't really let anyone put us into this general notion of opposition. We're not here. We are not in the tower, especially not in the way that Atlagic now spoke of the opposition as leniency, as about such, such as those who do not sit here. Please, Members of Parliament, please, at least say part of the opposition, because the SRS is an opposition party, but our parliamentary group is composed of high-value MPs, who submit amendments, the maximum number, how many MPs allow us, who use time in the principle debate, in asking questions, in discussing amendments. So we absolutely participate in the work and do not accept that we are neither lazy nor lezilebovici, nor do I know what he called all fellow Atlagic the opposition. I'm not getting into what he thinks about this new-age section of the opposition, which nobody lives for yet doesn't know who they belong to, or who their real leader is, or how many MP groups they have. All that is true, but, please, we are a parliamentary group that has entered with 22 MPs, 22 mandates into parliament, and we are working in full capacity and, as you can see, here we are now with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40359	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I didn't suggest to the MP because I realized from his presentation that he accurately defined what part of the opposition he meant. He even named the representatives of certain opposition political options. Of course, I do not dispute the fact, and it is visible that you are present and participating in the debate, both today and the previous days. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. You have also pointed to Rule 27, which also says that the President of the National Assembly, in particular the chairman, is taking care of the application of this Rules of Procedure and I will do so in the next period of time by insisting that the debate is being held on the proposed amendment. A colleague of Komlenski is already waiting half an hour to discuss the proposed amendment. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40360	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, which was proposed, should not be accepted, and not because the amendment promoter here criticised the government, spoke all sorts of things, not because he came in a shirt or in a pajamas, as counterpart Atlagic said, I might have been more serious about this amendment and considered that the fellow who came out of the sky here did what I expected in the delusion that he would do. I think I rightly expected that in 2012 someone who was on the minority list of the Vlaška Party would have so many feelings that for this reason he came to the Assembly, that along with members of the ruling coalition, with representatives of the SRS, he would condemn a letter to our fellow MP, Vlad Babic, who was threatened only for this reason because he was protecting the interests of the rebel national minority he belonged to. What the amendment promoter did only, unfortunately, confirms what I claimed in a speech that I had perhaps a little over half an hour ago, which is that today the representatives of so-called. The opposition, except for the SRS, which I do not wish to classify with them, did not appear here today, not because they boycott, but because they are not in a situation where they have to condemn this fascist threatening letter, which is synchronised with a boycott, which is synchronised with blockades, which is synchronised with a letter from Paracinos which is being sued by this state, and all in order to destabilise the situation in Serbia today, trying to, in the day that we are discussing this set of laws relating to national minorities to the challenge of unrest, restlessness among members of national minorities in Serbia. Dear Serbian citizens, they are unable to do so, sleep peacefully, as well as counterpart Vlad Babic. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and all normal citizens of Serbia are with you and no one can hesitate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40361	I thank my colleague Komlenski. By amendment, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40362	I've heard that discussion for a moment and let me tell you right now, if anyone thinks that one of their colleagues is in danger, on any basis, give me a petition, give me a signature, give me a paper, text a letter, I'll be happy to sign, no matter who it is or whether it belongs to the government or to the opposition. There's nothing controversial about it. Especially if it is a member not of any minority, but of any citizen of this country. Especially when it comes to the rebel national minority, it's a story I know a lot about and I'm quite familiar with it and I really think it's one of the most endangered national minorities in Serbia, by the way, be told, despite Vlah, because they're the subject of a specific assimilation of the so-called. the countries of the queen. Let's call it whatever we want, but it's not the subject of my amendment, and that's no reason not to support that amendment. So, when anyone, and there have been such threats to certain MPs here in the Assembly, threatens them, brings them out, or insults them, I'm always ready to respond, not paying attention to whether the government or the opposition is. What I must say is that, and that is what my colleague Atlagic has now repeated, in front of the public, those who still have the strength and patience to listen to this, he has routinely rolled insults against us from opposition from the party representatives of the government – lesilebovici, sloths, even worse and worse expressions. Let's face it, Radeta's colleague is here alone in front of the SRS, I'm in front of this piece, conditionally speaking, of the opposition. So we don't represent anyone, we represent ourselves. And another thing, Mr. Martinovic has a problem, and again an offensive formulation – a municipal child. You know, I don't have a problem being myself and supporting more or less certain political programs. You, Mr. Martinovic, are used to being someone's child, and she changes her cradle and goes to another cradle. Well, then, as you spoke up and defended one party, you are now defending another party, one leader and another leader. In any case, we are MPs who should express our views and represent our views within some broader position that we represent – you ruling, I opposition. And it's not true that I'm not an opposition. Yes, I am very harsh, unfortunately, and I would say a proper, proportionate opposition to this government, and I would like to fool myself about some things, especially when it comes to this topic of KIM, where today, and it could also be a topic in this parliament, but it is not a topic in this House, that the president of the government of this country today has made a statement saying that Serbia needs a compromise, and the way to this compromise is so that Serbia should not insist that Kosovo is Serbia. She says -- we said Kosovo is Serbia, a point, and if we continue to talk about Kosovo as Serbia, then there will be no compromise. One is a compromise, one is a negotiation and it is very dangerous, Mr Martinovic, and I end up with Canak, Ceda, etc., Mr Jovanovic, Nenad Canak and other MPs who do not really come. But they are much closer to you, you as authorities, and when it comes to Kosovo and to KIM, than to me or to some other MPs from the opposition. It's a sad fact. That's a fact you won't tell yourself. Nenad Canak is in power in Novi Sad. He's not part of the opposition. He doesn't come here for reasons he doesn't come. We're not talking about Ceda Jovanovic. His opinion is such that Mr. Jovanovic would sign what you just said. Whoever problems and advocates a frozen conflict, who opposes the treaty, shall take the rifle, the belts, and the rifle on the shoulder and go into battle. That's not how dialogue and negotiations are conducted, Mr. Martinovic, it's a capitulation in... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40363	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Right on the line, first the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40364	I don't really know what Mr. Vukadinovic would say about me the way he said my name? So he says -- he and I are here and everyone represents themselves. I am the Belief of Radet, but I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party. And I don't represent myself here, I express attitudes, political attitudes of the SRS. If he doesn't know who he belongs to or who he represents, I didn't ask him that, I don't care, but it's his business. And indeed, please, Mr. Vukadinovic, take care of what you say. Maybe you didn't get enough rest today, and now I'm going to start like my colleague Martinović, so here you are, at some point, when it might be your time to rest, so you don't know what you're talking about. Please, it is common knowledge that for years, the SRS has advocated that the mandate belongs to a political party, to whoever participated in the elections, and that you have never heard of any of us performing here, or anywhere else, that he performed on his own behalf. So I'm here on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. How many MPs are here now you have no right to count, and it would certainly be hard to count because you don't even know who you really belong to today, is that the same group that was this morning, which was the afternoon, which will be tomorrow? But that's what you agree with yourself, I guess now you need to position yourself slowly to see one day when the election time comes, to assess whether some NOPO will appear, as your list was called, so you can see where you might, like, maybe, Vlach or I don't know which national minority to enter parliament again. But, please, without the SRS, I'm asking you to get involved with this unblessing debate of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40365	Thank you. Comrade Komlenski, you want to follow the amendment. (Jorge Komlenski: Of course.) Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40366	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's to my insistence, we don't hear here - I condemn that today's threat to Vlad Babic. Well, at least tell me honestly -- I can't say it, or tell us how many mentors are gonna deny your funding, so since I don't believe it's some big money, let's get you back together, and then at least as a man, say it here at the pay phone -- I condemn it and don't go like rain around Kragujevec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40367	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Comrade Vukadinovic, you don't have time. As a representative of your parliamentary group, there is no remaining time. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Do you think this should not be condemned, what have we heard? Shall I condemn Mr. Komlensky? If he had spoken directly to you and mentioned your name or name, or the name of your MP group, I would have really had a basis to give you a replica, as you mentioned to a colleague of Radet, she had a basis. [[Jorge Vukadinovic: Yes and that I do not have the right to reply?]] But look at the stenogram, no moment has mentioned your name or last name, nor the parliamentary group you belong to. I gave you a moment and you had a basis because it was direct communication and I gave you a basis for replication. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Dusica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanović and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Seselj and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mirčić, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandra Belačić and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Tomislav LJubenović and LJljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Jojic, Momcilo Mandic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and the MPs of the SDS group together submitted together to the 10th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Nikola Savic and Ružica Nikolic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanović and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Seselj and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandra Belačić and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Sreto Peric, Tomislav LJubenović and Miljana Mihajlovic and joint MPs of the SDS group together submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Momcilo Mandic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Nikola Savic and Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanović and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Seselj and Marina Ristic submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to point 5 - Proposal for a bill on salaries employed by public agencies and other organisations founded by the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomic Area or the Local Self-Government Unit. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP Milorad Mircic has submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic has submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40368	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 1 of the amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the title above the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic has submitted to the title above Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic has submitted to the title above Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Marina Ristic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9 of the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dubravko Bojic proposed to delete the article with one amendment. 11 and 12. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenović proposed to delete the article with one amendment. 15th and 16th. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on National Councils of Minority You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the draft law, as well as by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he rejected as incomplete, amendments of the People's MPs: Zoran Despotovic to Article 2, Cedomir Jovanovic, Enes Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korać, Nenad Milic and Bajr Gegic per article. 4, 26. with correction and 48th and Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahje Fehratovic in Art. 11, 48, which shall be added to Article 49, Art. 60th and 68th. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ljiljana Mihajlovic, MP, submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas submitted together to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask the proposing representative to declare himself on this amendment. The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40369	Thank you, Chairman. I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40370	Thank you, Mr. Minister. By accepting the amendments, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask the proposing representative to declare himself on this amendment. The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40371	Thank you, Chairman. I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40372	Thank you, Mr. Minister. By accepting amendments by the promoter, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Muamer Zukorlic and Jahja Fehratovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic submitted together to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas submitted together to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality has submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40373	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-19-0.u40374	By accepting this amendment, I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. The 50th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović to the title of the Bill of Law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Ivan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Ivan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas submitted together to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the opinion of the promoters, MPs Studenka Kovacevic, Miletic Mihajlovic, Darko Laketić, Dejan Radenkovic on the amendments made. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives pursuant to Article 163 of Article 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 20, which was submitted by LJibuška Lakatoš. The rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP LJibuška Lakatoš submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 20 June 2018, with a start at 10.00 a.m. as Voting Day on Points 1 to 9 of the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you. [[session interrupted at 8:15 p.m.]]
