ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32929	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the progressive regime has been established in Serbia in time based on major promises to fight crime, corruption, the fight against the mafia. The Progressive regime has been in power for six years, and it is time to balance what they have done so far and whether at least they have fulfilled their basic promises. You remember that in 2000, the Dosmanian government began kidnapping the richest people in Serbia, from the son of Lepa Brena and Boba Živojinovic, via Miroslav Miskovic, Milija Babovic and others. Here, we all know, the papers have come out, that politicians have been involved in the division of money from these abductions. What kind of politicians are they? The whole of Serbia knows, but the government doesn't seem to know. My question to Nebojsa Stefanovic, Minister of the Interior. The money was distributed directly by Cedomir Jovanovic and Zoran Djindjic, along with the main members of the Surcin clan. At that time, the Surcin-earth clan was unique. They only tore up when Djindjic divided them in 2002, one piece headed by Chumet wanted to legalise, and the other part to put them in jail, so they didn't give up. It is high time for the documentation of Zoran Djindjic's desert debate to be made public and there are many interesting things there. Remember Veronica Barach. She burned at work by revealing severe forms of corruption and crime in Serbia. One of the biggest criminals in recent years, Tomislav Nikolic, has awarded her a high state medal. None of these privatisations are fully enlightened. See which all the privatisations mention Miroljub Labus, Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Vlahovic and others. Here for three and a half hours in the Federal Assembly, I was talking about our initiative to replace the governor of the National Bank, then Mladjan Dinkic, with documentation on criminal occurrences during the formation of so-called. The national savings banks that they first transferred the old foreign currency savings to. We saw after that savings locker went down without anybody's head getting hurt. It's about time these things were lit up. It's high time to test it all. Otherwise, there will be obsolescence. Ludi, it's been 18 years since these abductions. The absolute obsolescence in our right is 25 years. Will we allow absolute obsolescence to occur and these people continue to pretend to be innocent, to be honorable, to be honest, and the whole nation knows how many thieves they are? In our current government, we have examples of large-scale criminals against whom no one does anything. Here, we have a new affair with this sports minister who just appeared in public, and we know long ago about all the affairs of Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar. More than three years ago, I talked about these affairs at several press conferences, refreshed my recent memory, and no one is doing anything. Can such a man be a minister for much longer? As long as there will be a minister, Zorana Mihajlovic, who even bought undergarments in New York, the most expensive in the world? We're waiting for that government reconstruction, so if it just happens to stay in the government, we've prepared one huge pair of underwear to give it here in the National Assembly, so that no more state money can be spent in New York, because these are underpants that don't change every day, carried for a month. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sick and tired of making fun of these things, but there's no joke here for a long time. Will you do something? If you don't, there's someone who can't wait to take it into his hands, so he can take those measures in the fight against the mafia, crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32931	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32932	Thank you very much. A few questions. The first question of the Prime Minister and the competent ministers, as regards the airport, the issue and everything related to the subject. Question under 1. - on what basis has the Serbian Government signed a secret agreement with a certain French concession company for the "Nikola Tesla" Airport? Which member of the Constitution, which member of any law or regulation or whatever authority may give authority to sign secret contracts in Serbia when it comes to public property? Is it part of the project that together with the purchase, or concession for Pristina airport, it destroys the airport for reasons which are the petty own interest of a company and the top of the Serbian government represented by Aleksandar Vukic? We had statements the other day that it was necessary to take over the airport in order to be able to continue funding, to help, to develop. Then why is it not transferred to the property of the Republic of Serbia and the Banja Luka Airport, as the competent traffic minister said, along with the prime minister and the president of the state, that the airport will also be under the subsidies of the Serbian government? The second question is about Paracino. Is it true that the National Employment Service has approved fictitious jobs in the public works of Eurolin in Paracina for SNS activists who work as an Internet team in the Paracino SNS trust and who do not actually go to work at Eurolin but are sitting in party rooms? Is the minister, and the question has been asked by Nelli Kuburovic and Zorana Djordjevic, known to be the SNS trustee and the Eurolin company, Radiša Savic and Milan Nedic, who are also SNS committees, is the Minister known to be the official confidant of SNS and responsible person in Eurolin or Euroline from Paracina in the KRIK documents, which is publicly available, designated as a legally convicted person in the Resavica Mines affair because he has now bribed this documentation on the years-long sentence of prison of the convicted Director of Mines? Is it legal for the National Service not to control the work of public workers, to approve public works for companies that send workers to work in the party and for companies that have a strong conviction before the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and what is it according to publicly available documentation and Milan Ilic? So, the company, they like to call it Eurolin, and it's probably read Euroline, and abuse of public money. The question of the Minister of Culture – did he watch the show "Elevator – Free Show", the Pristina National Theatre? Is it true that the director's punishment procedure was initiated because he called on the top of the Serbian government, president of the state, prime minister, minister and all others to come to the premiere and show in Gracanica a few months ago? I watched that show last night, and I recommend it to all those who want to get acquainted with one artistic sighting of a dark part of Serbia's past. Today is exactly a month since Vucic promised to inform the Serbian public about the knowledge of Oliver Ivanovic's murder, about the findings that our services have come to. Today is almost three months, or three months and one day since the murder. The Serbian public did not receive any information from either our services or any information our services received from anyone. Has anyone done anything in the event of the discovery of the cause and the perpetrators and employers of Oliver Ivanovic's murder or has the state finished its job by creating an atmosphere to make his liquidation something that is acceptable to one part of the public? We had that atmosphere 15 years ago in the case of Serbian Prime Minister, at that time Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32933	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32934	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the question of the prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as regards water and drinking water in Zrenjanin. The prime minister said on January 30th this year that Zrenjanin is one step ahead of healthy drinking water. In 2015, a pompous solution to this problem was announced by a certain private investor coming and investing money from his pocket, and the citizens of Zrenjanin get drinking water and already in 2016. With a year late, about half last year only the factory, or water treatment plant, was released for a few days to work, to be shut down, and until today's citizens of Zrenjanin do not have healthy drinking water. In doing so, this situation and what was happening throughout the process actually shows all the incompetence of today's government in the Republic of Serbia, the incompetence of local authorities and the incompetence of the province's government. Namely, in which normal state, one ministry, in this case, the Ministry of Construction can give permission to build a drinking water processing plant to a private company called the "Zilo Group", reportedly an Italian investor, in the APR, I don't think it's a registered company in Serbia with Serbian owners, that this company can build a factory, clean water and by 0.28 cents is sold to a water pipeline that will continue to distribute it to citizens? Then, the Ministry of Health and the Regional Ministry of Health refuse to grant permission to release the facility because it is contrary to the Law on Community Works. I ask the prime minister - who will bear responsibility because he does not respect the laws adopted by this Assembly, does not respect the laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If someone from the Department of Construction broke the Law on Community Works and gave consent to some private investor to build that factory, and then now the Ministry of Health does not give consent to let it work – who is responsible? Someone's got to be responsible. Meanwhile, they've come up with a great solution, which is -- let's solve the problem, as the prime minister said, there's a little wrinkle, but we're going to solve it by buying the construction plant from a private investor. It is now up to the contract to determine whether it is 6.5m euros or 8m euros or no matter how much that facility actually will, and when it is allowed to work, allow the citizens of Zrenjanin to have a healthy drinking water. Some analyses and studies say no and this shows one irresponsible behavior and playing with the state, playing with citizens, playing with citizens' money, playing with citizens' health. It has been announced that this decades-old problem will be resolved very simply without money invested, without anything and here today 2018 citizens of Zrenjanin are forced to protest because they have to buy water for themselves from their own children every day. There's a serious question of responsibility here. The question arises – how is it possible for a country to allow itself one such thing? Today, as long as the facility is not released, the private investor who did so, they say, has no state money, with the state providing a guarantee of 6.5m euros, each day charges a penalty of 4,500 euros until the facility is released. So the prime minister owes a response to the citizens of Zrenjanin, whom she told on January 30th that the problem would be solved or temporary measures would be imposed on the city authorities if she was responsible or punished by someone from the Ministry of Health or perhaps someone from the Ministry of Health, but in this way you would show that someone really cares about the citizens. This will be practically another one in a series of secret contracts that are the practice of this authority's concession agreement with the Aerodrom, such as Beograd na Voda, etc. And this is a secret contract, so you don't even know who the investor representing that group is, as it is called, "Zilia Group", allegedly from Italy, is it some of our investors, and who in their budget is now supposed to give them 6.5 or 8m euros, who will deal with them for that money, and whether the citizens of Zrenjanina will finally get healthy drinking water?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32935	Thank you, colleague Alexic. The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32936	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I refer the parliamentary question to the government and the KIM Office, to a request from members of the mountain community from the municipality of Dragas. On 6 April this year, at my address, i.e. here in the National Assembly, I was asked to ask them a parliamentary question that reads on their behalf – when the Government of the Republic of Serbia will resolve Adem Hodzu's duties as president of the Interim Authority of the Municipality of Gora for the reason that he voted in favour of an agreement on the demarcation of the so-called "Serb List" assembly in Kosovo. Kosovo states with Montenegro, thus showing loyalty to Kosovo institutions acting contrary to our definition and politics of the Serbian state? So, on their request, I ask this question, of course from the pitets and respect for the mountainous community that remained loyal to the state of Serbia all the time and especially today when the pressures on them are far greater even to us Serbs. They also asked me to, Mr. Chairman, and of course the Government and the Office to introduce you to the letter they sent to Mr. Mark Đurić, which, unfortunately, he did not react to, the letter is brief, I will not comment on it and describe it, so I will read it, so the KIM Office, Director Mark Đurić. The letter reads - Dears, what else is it necessary for Adam Hoxha to do in order to be relieved of his duties as president of the temporary authority of the municipality of Gore? While you are under arrest by the Cypriot terrorists, your President of the Interim Council, Adam Hodge, accompanied by and well-paid treason, contrary to the interests of the state and politics, all the bitter smiles in the society of criminals, terrorist Ramush Haradinaj, votes at the assembly for an agreement on the demarcation of so-called. The countries of Kosovo and Montenegro. We ask you a question where and in which state can someone, after such treason, be president of the Interim Authority? What did he charge you, this amoral, blasphemous traitor full of evil, bad intentions towards us Gorans and the state, putting himself above the law, saying and threatening us that if we don't support him and his brother Recep, we will lose our jobs, we will end our pensions, our social benefits, our child's allowance, and our other donations, forgetting that these rights belong to the citizens under the law? His behaviour and action among intellectuals and citizens of Gora is unacceptable and as such triggers enormous revolt and condemnation, threatening his unconditional shift and the launch of criminal responsibility for all that he has done during his post. Citing several examples, such as the illegal spending of budget funds obtained from the KIM Office, the rape of a young student of the mountain in Kosovo Mitrovica, for which he spent several months in custody, and for all this time, he reportedly received a salary from the Republic of Serbia's budget, applying Albanians through the employment service with good compensation for receiving free health insurance. Is he to be trusted, who during the stay of President Vukic in Laplem village and you in Kosovo Mitrovica hid so that Albanians would not recognize and see him and send us to those meetings? Is he to be trusted, who hastily enriched by buying a large luxury apartment in Prizren, which puts pressure on Serbia's education in Gora, and enrolls his children in Prizren to attend his classes in Albanian? We ask you, Your Honor, without delay, to initiate the procedure for the resolution of President Adem Hoxhaj by the authorities, because he is a great pity for us, Gorance and the state of Serbia. We believe you will support our request. In the end, sincere greetings. In signature, a group of intellectuals and citizens of the municipality of Gora. It's my duty to read this, although in conversation with them I was interested in who was actually standing out of this. They told me that out of all this, the haughtiness of this man, they didn't give a shit how they found out off the record, even from this Hodge, that he was actually in the so-called. The assembly of Kosovos, they claim, did not vote alone, but voted in favour of a Belgrade speech, primarily Mark Đuric and members of the Serbian List, which particularly hurt them, because they consider themselves to be, indeed, the real border guards of the Serbian state where they live, on the Sar-Mountain, and they experienced someone hiding behind them, voting for so-called. the border between the so-called The hairs and the Black Mountains. So here, on their behalf, and I expect the government and the office to really answer this question and, at the very least, to apologize to these people all together.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32937	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32938	Thank you. The first question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Minister of Business and the Agency for Restitution – why cannot the restitution process be subject to the substitution of agricultural land with other available state land in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? When will the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Restitution come on the agenda of the National Assembly? A second question to the same state authorities – why has the restitution process left out the restitution or substitution with other state land and property owned by the Republic of Serbia for agricultural land and other property of agricultural cooperatives, seized without compensation after 1 July 1953? I point out that in Serbia, unlike some other countries in the world, membership in agricultural cooperatives in Serbia was allowed only by individuals and that property was created by the work and business of cooperatives and cooperatives de facto and de jure the private ownership of cooperative members or their successors, if members of the cooperative died. Only in the period from 1960 to 2012, between the last two lists, a full list of agriculture from the cooperative sector disappeared over 400,000 hectares of agricultural land. I ask the third question to the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. It has been 20 days since the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy of the National Assembly supported my initiative, thanks to the Committee members, to amend the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development and the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018, which reduced funds for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management by 5.3 billion dinars, i.e. over 15 billion dinars for fostering agriculture and rural development in 2018. According to the same chronology, the funds for agriculture and rural development in the period from 2013 to 2018 have been reduced by around 70 billion. The next issue to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. In 1936, the University of Belgrade Faculty of Agriculture had 313 hectares of land on a tour of a good "Redka" in Pančevački rit. In 1946, another 560 hectares of land were allocated from the Social Property Fund to the Faculty of Agriculture. A regulation on viewing stations of the Faculty of Agriculture in Belgrade, which the Government of the People's Republic of Serbia, numbered 292, brought 31. In 1951, it was published on 17 August 1951 in “St. NRS No.28’ also established a ‘Redka’ view station. The National Committee of the Municipality of Krnjač gave the Faculty of Agriculture for permanent use without compensation agricultural land in the area of 360 hectares and 63 acres and 52 metres for the view cattle station “Redka”. As mentioned above, I ask the Government and the Resort Ministry to place from the surface of the state land used by the PKK corporations 1233 hectares 63 acres and 52 meters square, before its possible privatisation, and on that surface into possession of the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Belgrade, which next year marks the jubilee of 100 years of work, in order to finally form the viewing war-stolling welfare of the "Redka" so that the university has land and facilities for the practice of students from the field of war-to-stocer production. In my study "Agricultural Land in the Republic of Serbia", published 2015. For years, I've found that, for example, for the production year 2011 and 2012, of a total of 5,959 hectares of state agricultural land given for use without compensation, not more than 1313 hectares, 22% given to correctional institutions and at least for all three agricultural colleges in Serbia, only 28 hectares, 0.5%, indicating that the state is protective of prisoners and irresponsible to students, graduates, magistrates and doctors of science.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32939	Thank you, Mr. Chevarlich. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32940	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask my first question to Prime Minister Brnabic and the minister of sports, as regards the municipality of Kula and the allocation of funds for sports organisations. Namely, the municipality of Kula has issued a public invitation for the allocation of regular funding for sports organisations, for 2018. The Supreme Court's ruling confirmed the provisions of the Law on Sports, where the only authorised proponent is the territorial sports alliance. I have in my hands a proposal for a financial plan that the territorial sports alliance of the municipality of Kula on the programming calendar submitted in time to local self-government. I ask the Minister of Sports – will this public call under the Law on Sports, as an illegal act, be put out of force? The second question, the Sports Union of the municipality of Kula and the Sports Union of the Municipality of Backo Palanka, has been members of the Sports Union of Serbia since 2016, when a new Sport Act was adopted. Baka Palanka and the municipality union from The Tower have applied for a solution to the jurisdiction of territorial alliances to take over Serbia's Sports Federation. As prescribed by the Sport Act and in such a way that the offices are applied in sport, in these units of local self-government, why has the Ministry of Sports not submitted such a solution? Also, I ask the same question by the Minister of Justice, and as regards these sports alliances, Vladimir Batez, the circuit secretary for sport is Petra Bodrožić, representative of the Sports Union of the Municipality of Kula, in the presence of witnesses, said that although he takes charge, he thinks of the Ministry, do you think you can get one court in this country? Do judges make judgments based on political will or on law? So, where did the regional secretary's courage come from that he could speak with such certainty about the outcome of the verdict? That's what I'm asking the Minister of Justice. I also ask my question "The Railways of Serbia" and Minister Mihajlovic. Namely, the train station in Novi Sad was built 54 years ago and since then to this day in that train station, that is, in the building and everything that belongs to that railway station has never been invested. The passengers are now increasingly returning and traveling by rail, because we know that the train journey is much cheaper, so that the railway station sometimes passes about 13,000 passengers. It has been announced that a new railway station will be renovated, that the renovation will start now in May, I think in mid-year, so I am interested, since it has been announced that some, let me say, make-up jobs will start, that there will be a moving door, that the malter that is getting rid of will be renovated, etc., but I am interested in asking Serbia Railways and Minister Mihajlović - will the railway station in Novi Sad be done and made a moving stairway? Because the station without those moving stairs has been functioning for 54 years. This is a big problem, because simply passengers who are disabled, who come with suitcases, because the train station in Novi Sad is very busy, as well as the opening of that road network between Belgrade and Budapest will most likely be even more trafficked, so I wonder if it will make life easier for people with disabilities and passengers passing through and coming to Novi Sad and whether they will be at the railway station, except for these make-up jobs, painting, etc. Make some moving stairs, too?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32941	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32942	Thank you, Chairman. I refer my first question to Minister Vanji Udovici, Ministry of Youth and Sports. Namely, I was approached by students, i.e. students and their parents, who receive the Dosite scholarship, and asked when they would show up and when would the final ranking list of scholarship winners be published? I repeat, it's about scholarships received by the best students of our country, the greatest pride we have. Let's just remind ourselves what sharp criteria students need to meet. One of the criteria is, for example, that they have an average score of 9.63, so these students, even though we've already gone a long way in April and the second semester, students and their parents are wondering if these are scholarships to study or flight scholarships? Just so they know how to plan that money. Another suggestion about this scholarship is Minister Zoran Djordjevic. One of the shameful criteria students need to meet is that unless they are hired within three years, they should return their scholarship. So we come to an absurd situation that the best students should be at the Bureau, while party staffs are being imitated, so in this sense I would suggest to Minister Djordjevic that these children, these students, have priority in public and state government employment. I think it's okay, I think it's fair, that to these students that we should keep in our country, because we boast on all our mouths how well-educated students of our country's treasure are, we need to do something to keep them in this country. I refer my next question to Zorana Mihajlovic, who is in front of the co-ordination body for gender equality. I have already asked several questions about my friend, my colleague, Bojana and Vanja Djordjevic, what will happen to her case, since she was preparing for the systematicisation, which, imagine at the National Theatre in Vrsac, erases the position of dramatists. It would be quite clear to me, for example, that the position of a nuclear physicist or, a biologist, for example, does not exist in a theatre, but that there is no position of a dramatist, that it is erased from the systemization is something that has not been seen at all. As for the obviously political pogrom, because Bojan's husband has been fired from the same theatre before, I refer to the issue of Zorana Mihajlovic whether this case has anything to do with the incentive measures of the Government of Serbia to increase the birth rate, because Bojana and the mother are three underage children and the most educated in this theatre and the question is what will happen to her family, her children and her further career will essentially be? I would like to conclude this question with a nice quote from Nusic, who says – in any case better to watch life in the theatre than to watch the theatre play in his life, which is exactly what my colleague and friend Bojana Ivanov Djordjevic is currently experiencing. Speaking of Nusic, I would ask and ask Minister Rasim Ljajic – what will he do to save the Nusicyad festival in Ivanjica? In Ivanjica, we currently have a situation consistent with Nusic's pieces, so that one lucky captain seems to prevent this festival from being organised and maintained. Namely, as Zivka Minister Cedu has resolved the roles of Dara's husband, because she is the power and can be, so Ivanjik's president of the municipality is one association called Kudes publicly and solemnly relieved of the intelligence of Nusiciada, probably by the same logic, and that the citizen to whom he speaks saves the monsters brought by the Association of the Citizens of the Kudes into his municipality. What's going on here? The Kudes Citizens' Association, which revived the festival eight years ago, experienced the situation for municipality President Zoran Lazovic tossing out this association and relieving it of all competences to manage this festival. During the management of the Kudes festival, the festival was named the five best festivals in Europe. He's the winner of several of the most significant awards and confessions. He managed to gather more than 300,000 visitors from more than 20 countries in eight years, hold over 55 theatre shows, 20 concerts, countless stands, workshops and experience being kicked out of his child, out of his festival that he revived and created. I also remind the public that young Nusic was sentenced to two years of strict prison in Pozarevec because then King Milan found himself offended by Nusic's lyrics. However, in such conditions of non-freedom and asphyxiation, creative initiatives, Nusic wrote in prison one of his most famous comedys called "Protection" and best showed that absoluteism and censorship on long paths always lose the game with freedom of thought and creative expression. I would like to conclude my question with another Nusic quote, or thoughts – in a country ruled by the doctors, ladies and gentlemen of the minister, and the Happy Captains decide to rip and what isn't theirs, we can all be a grieving family together. And this summer, Nusiciada seems to have been seen for complete control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32943	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32944	Thank you, Vice President. My questions were referred first to the presidents of the Assembly, Maji Gojkovic, and then to Aleksandr Martinovic, the chairman of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues. The question is very simple – When will the convicted war criminal Vojislav Seselj be taken from office and when will he be expelled from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? In another way, this question is asked – When will the National Assembly apply Article 88? A law on the election of MPs, which says in paragraph 3 that the MP ceases his term before the time to which he was elected if he is sentenced to imprisonment unconditionally for a period of at least six months? Dear colleagues, it does not say: if it is directed to serve a six-month sentence, it does not say: if it has been sentenced by law before a domestic court to imprisonment unconditionally for six months. In paragraph 3 of Article 88, it states that the MP shall cease his term of office if he is sentenced, by a judicial decision, to a sentence of imprisonment, unconditionally for a period of at least six months. War criminal Vojislav Seselj was sentenced to ten years in prison last Wednesday by a judicial order. This man, by law, is no place in the National Assembly. It is a shame that the convicted war criminal represents the citizens of Serbia without saying how insulting all those people who were victims of his policy and all the families of those who did not even survive his policy. I know, colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party, I know, Mr. Martinovic, and tell Mrs. Gojkovic, to know that they and his war crimes, and what he is sitting in the Assembly today, do not take it terribly seriously and do not think it is a terrible thing. After all, they supported him all the time while he was committing and committing these war crimes. Until just a few years ago, Mr Martinovic assured us that Croats who were expelled from Vojvodina's Malta had replaced some of their guests in Vojvodina for magnificent villas at sea, etc. (Alexander Martinovic: He is not convicted of war crimes. ) Just so you know, colleagues and colleagues, denying war crimes is in itself problematic, but we're not talking about it right now. Respect for the law can't be reduced to whether someone likes something or doesn't like something. The law states that one who has been sentenced to prison for more than six months should be left without a mandate and that is something the National Assembly must implement. (Alexander Martinovic: Take away his mandate, who is defending you. ) I ask Mr Martinovic to keep his sympathies for Vojislav Seselj, he can also return to his party, so don't throw me as I speak. The second question addressed to National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic – what will the National Assembly do to protect our two colleagues from the shameful attacks of Vojislav Seselj, from the threat of repeating war crimes and from our colleague Tomislav Žigmanov and our colleague, Nenada Chanka? Or does the National Assembly have absolutely no intention of doing anything when one, I can't tell a colleague because a war criminal can't be our colleague, but when a convicted war criminal threatens two MPs? We, from the verdict of Vojislav Seselj, from what was happening in Serbia, Vojvodina and in the entire territory of the former Yugoslavia, saw that his words were not an empty threat. It's a man who's been sentenced to 10 years in prison for exorcising Croats from Vojvodina. Today he threatens Tomislav Zigmanov, threatens to repeat these crimes, he threatens to break the nose of anyone who calls him a war criminal. Here, we from the Democratic Party say – Vojislav Seselj is a convicted war criminal, so let him start breaking noses. Here, she can come from me first! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32945	My colleague Jerkov, I didn't want to interrupt you because it is your legitimate right to ask a question... (Radoslav Milojic: You have no right to interrupt. I have no intention of entering, Mr. Milojic, with you into dialogue, but to conduct a session. (Goran Ciric: You've already entered.) ) No, I did not go in, I just want to point out that you still respect the dignity of all the MPs and who will be sitting in the National Assembly is not you, nor who will be the MP, but the citizens in the elections, and the legal interpretation, of course, of the questions, you will certainly get the answer within the deadline defined by the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32946	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not get an answer and ask for an answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since I did not receive an apology from the Democratic Party, to deliver to me a list of the killed in 1991, 25 Croats, as claimed by counterpart Zigmanov, MP of the Democratic Party. I insist that this list be delivered to me or that I be provided with information whether it happened or not? We are a serious state and I want that list if there is any sacrifice to deliver that list to me, because I claim that it did not happen in Serbia. Number two, I ask the Justice Department, colleague Jerkov, to explain, since I am a farmer, she is a college-educated woman, to explain to her what the difference between a convicted and a convicted person is. Since she was asking a question about one of our colleagues who was convicted. So, he endured the sentence, so I'm asking the Department of Justice to point out the difference between a convicted one, the one who's going to endure the sentence and the convicted, regardless of the way he's been convicted, the convicted who's already endured the sentence, to strictly explain that difference to her. Furthermore, I am asking the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the security authorities, if a colleague Slavisa Ristic bought a mandate on the list, on the electoral list of Sande Raskovic Ivić for 640 thousand dinars, and whether it has something to do with his professional activity, given that he is a tax inspector and that he is carrying out tax control, which could in the case of business entities in Kosovo and Metohija lead to the economic functioning of these companies. With this in mind, Djordje Vukadinovic passed as a minority on that list, I ask the question, given that he snuck out in Time on two, three pages, in relation to my smallness and fellow Atlagic, to provide me with an answer, to ask the Presidency of the Assembly, to provide me with an answer, whether I had any greater rights than my fellow MP Vukadinovic and whether I used those greater rights if it existed since he wanted to point out the inequality of the MPs here, I also argue that this did not happen and that all MPs were on the issue of rights, including the right to submit amendments equally. But I'm asking you to answer that. Furthermore, I demand that I be answered by the security and prosecution authorities, what will be done in connection with the secret agreement reached in Virginia by Zoran Zivkovic and the "BAT" and "Philip Morrison" representatives on the sale of the Nis and the Duvanska Industry Vranje, where the commission was $12m in favour of Mr Zivkovic, and five million in "BAT" were probably shared by Djelic and Vlahovic, therefore, to answer whether this happened to me since the secret agreement happened during Sablje when the citizens were far less entitled due to the state of emergency. Also, that my security authorities, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia, are being questioned by security authorities regarding Sasa Jankovic and other freedom fighters, whether there is a rope between external international pressures, visible sprawling and so-called domestic freedom fighters Gilas, Jankovic, Jeremic and so on, Borko, Janko Veseinovic. So, is there a rope where under pressure from the international community, an internal factor, that is, so-called freedom fighters, intend to raise appropriate, appropriate riots in the Republic of Serbia. Is there a security assessment in which this is estimated, since Sasa Jankovic particularly radically announces the party's erasure, the shooting, cited examples from Ceauseski etc. Given the sensitivity of the moment we are in, I ask that the Government of the Republic of Serbia answer me on this point, what I have stated. Also, I ask if an investigation has been carried out against Vuk Jeremic for spending, non-intentional spending while serving as foreign minister, i.e. whether there have been investigations into the sale of assets abroad of the Republic of Serbia "Energoproject" and others. That's what I have to ask today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32947	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32948	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to exercise my right to ask a parliamentary question today, and that is Minister Djordjevic, Minister for Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and it is related to the position of families with special needs. According to some of the data I came up with, about 23,000 children or families in this position, and the Social Security Act, which was adopted in 2011, regulated their rights in the area of their protection and social security. The SPS MP group, at the time of the law's adoption, sought in particular to affect the regulation of that member, which refers precisely to the position of families and parents who themselves care about their children, the level of their social protection or the measures taken in this direction, and especially to the protection of single parents who care for their children. I note that at that time, the SPS initiative did not find adequate application in the law, but these measures at a significantly lower level were then adopted and became part of the legislation. Today, in fact lately, we see that the government is more concerned with the measures of population policy. Many new measures have been introduced that have not existed so far and thanks to the work and initiatives of Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and other resolution ministers, since these issues must be interresorted, we have come to the situation to show more about the state's concerns about the position of children, the position of families and their protection. We think that's exactly the reason and we point out that maybe it's time to pay more attention to these measures and to the social protection and social security of families that care for children with special needs, to pay more attention, to care more, and to that end to increase their protection. The goal, in terms of social commitment, when it comes to these things, is to ensure that children with special needs stay more in the family, to have that protection, love and every kind of socialization that is much better in this regard than to spend their lives in social institutions that are specially provided for it. In this way, the state is also placed in a very active position, where the means to live and socialise alone through the work of these institutions must be provided. My question is actually direct. Is there an opportunity in the budget to increase this measure of social protection for children with special needs? Is the plan such a measure for the next budget period and is there an increased attention in this direction, as well as whether it may be considered to approach the amendments of the Social Protection Act in the next period, especially in this section concerning children with special needs? The explanation for this kind of question and this kind of interest actually arises, in fact, from the need to answer the question of who cares about children when a parent is working, who cares about children when it comes to single parents who are in these conditions of social need, and we are aware of the fact that parents often have problems with employers in such a situation, and very often have a situation and a obligation to care for their children, but therefore they have to leave work. We know that social compensation under the law, which was passed in 2011, was changed in 2012, in fact 12 thousand dinars, but certainly not enough for social security. That is why we believe that our parliamentary group should join all NGOs and initiatives that go in the direction of legislation that would regulate the position of parents as carers and thus put them in one special concern, one special focus that would prove to have a high degree of social and social protection. I think that if this were to become a mandatory social category, in order to justify, in any case, the demands and initiatives that the SPS had in 2011, and it is in line with the policy that the government has to do with the population policy and the protection of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32949	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32950	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the last few days, there have been more than one affair in the media that concerns the Paracian municipality. In that municipality it is in the power of the DS, it is the only municipality where the party is in power. A certain Sasa Paunovic, already called "Paracin Despot", has been in power for almost 20 years, and nothing good for Paracino has done. Absolutely nothing. The latest in a series of affairs concerns the deputy president of the municipality, so Saša Paunovic's first man, and this is a flagrant example of conflict of interest, trade in influence and abuse of official position. Namely, according to the media, the deputy president of Paracin municipality, Tomislav Shalatic, is also the director of a private company, which gets most of the jobs in municipal tenders. It is the company "Spectar Invest", on the website of the Business Registers Agency, that Shaletić is one of the directors and member of the board of directors of the company. One of the tenders also referred to the reconstruction of the City Pharmacy in Paracina, when the job just got this company, and the value of the whole job was 13 million dinars. So in front of me is the decision to award a contract for public procurement, which confirms all these allegations. So, to make things perfectly clear here, we have a vice president of the municipality, who is also the director of a private company, and this particular private firm gets all the jobs in that community all the time. The classic conflict of interest and that is why my question is addressed to the Anti-Corruption Agency and is it – is it a conflict of interest in this case, especially if we have in mind that the law stipulates that if the body or body discusses and decides on a matter in which the official or connected person has a private interest, the official is obliged to declare the existence of private interest before his participation in the debate? Furthermore, I call on the Ministry of the Interior and the competent authorities of the Ministry to investigate this and all other cases in Paracino, to see if there was any trade in influence and whether there was any abuse of official position? You know, this Sasa Paunovic, he's been in power for almost 20 years in Paracino. So, who knows what we'll find out there. (Natasa Sp Jovanovic throws out of place, but she doesn't understand. ) Thank you, colleague Jovanovic, you're right. Who knows what's gonna happen there when the authorities come in and see what's been done in the last 20 years. Paracynics know that there, in that municipality, businesses are exclusively obtained that way. It's a public secret that jobs are being set up on various family and godfather lines. It has once again proved that wherever the DS is in power, wherever the DS is in power, in whatever municipality, it's Smederevska Palanka or Paracino, it's always about combinations, it's always about abuses of official position, it's always about the jobs, the tenders and the other thief, and then it's no wonder why there's an initiative to call emergency local elections, which the Paracina citizens have supported, and it's hearty support. So a huge number of signatures were collected for this initiative. The only person who fears this initiative and the calling of extraordinary local elections is Sasa Paunovic. He's afraid that he'll come out to see everything he's done in that municipality for the last 20 years, and I want to call him on this occasion not to be afraid of the voice of the people, not to be afraid of the will of the people, but to discuss the extraordinary local elections in that municipality and to see which party wins the majority, and whoever has no reason to be afraid, who didn't commit any crime or who didn't participate in any crime has absolutely no reason to be afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32951	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Gordana Komic and Maja Vidinović. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the context of the search in particular on the 1st item of the agenda -- the draft law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, the meetings were called on by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Dr Dusan Vujovic, Finance Minister Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, as well as representatives of the ministries. We're going back to work. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on the planning system, I'd say, is another law that you're just trying to fulfill, and you're trying to fulfill it in one bad way. You are talking about the EU, you are talking about the obligation to comply with your laws, although, I think, you are all fully aware, if you would like and could at least for a moment be honest that Serbia's European path to the EU has nothing. But there are more important things here. Since I have not received my word for a moment, I must first respond to those who are hired to hate Serbia, those who rejoice when one of the Serb patriots is convicted, those who are the only ones who care that every day they will speak uglyly about their country, about their people. You, no matter how hard you try, no matter how much you hate us, no matter how much you hate earth and people, the country you live in, and the people you live with, you can't defeat logic, you can't defeat common sense. There was no war in Serbia. Thus, there can be no war conflicts, no warring parties, no war crimes. The UN tribunal's verdict can be hung by a cat on the tail. If you do not sit in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you do not have to sit down, nor will we hear anything from you. Unlike you, the SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj went to the polls on their own, running for office. He knew the people of The Hague, he knew about the false indictment, which is why we got trust and make sure that trust, precisely because of this shameful condemnation of the UN tribunal, will be even greater next time, and everything attributed to Vojislav Seselj and the SRS as a crime, makes us proud. So that ye may hear one more time: there is no crime there, nor any who are expelled, nor any who have been killed. You're lying, and we've proven everything even in front of The Hague. (Alexandra Jerkov: Shame on you! Shame on you either.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32953	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32954	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising Article 108. I don't think today is the theme of Mr. Vojislav Seselj's character and work. That it's lucky he never got into politics and that it's lucky that he and the SPS were never even in power. We wouldn't have wars, we wouldn't have bombings, we wouldn't have victims... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32955	A fellow Milojitsu... (Radoslav Milojic: Chairman, why did you take my word? That's because of the 108 you advertised. You can't do that. (Radoslav Milojic: Let me finish. I'll let you finish, but you can't do that. It's not up to you to decide who's going to be the People's Messenger or not. That's what citizens decide in the election. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32956	I don't know if you've been following my exposure? I see you're all nervous here, more of you from the SNS, than those from the radicals to the mention of the indictment. I didn't mention who would be an MP, I mentioned Article 108, because you broke it, because the previous speaker defended the character and the work, the shameful speech, and the shameful character and the shameful work of the Duke of Seselj. I just explained that it's lucky that neither he nor the SPS got caught up in politics. We wouldn't have wars, bombings... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32957	Dear MPs, I'm setting a 15-minute break, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We'll be back to work in 15 minutes. [[After a break.]] Minister Djordjevic, please, we'd like to continue. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. I'm not taking a break so we can pick up where there's a reason to break up. Philip Stojanović? Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Yes, it doesn't say anything.) You don't run a session. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment? Do they want a word? Does anyone else want a word? Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Do you want a word? Good luck, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm a little bit ready to forgive your failures and your policy in the ministry that you're leading, given who you came to the head of the military ministry after. Anyway, let's go back to the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, and I submitted to Article 2, where I suggested that Article 2 paragraph 1 point 6 be deleted. To get along better, I will tell you a life story, Mr. Minister, comes hungry student from school and says – Mom, what she has for lunch today, she says – I have a vision, she says – Good, and what's for dinner will be for dinner – Mission, and he says – Mom, mani joke, start doing something. Mr. Minister, there are too many nice words perhaps in this law, somewhat vague, but completely pointless. Here, I have arguments in two directions, and against this law. First, all that you allegedly want to achieve this law is already regulated by certain laws, such as the Government Act, the Ministry Act, the Public Enterprises Act, the State Administration, the Capital Act, the Budget Act, the Budget Law. It's already been regulated. The proof that this is so, you heard yesterday from many of our colleagues who said they were in Šapac, Leskovac, Novi Sad, Pancheva, Kruševec, Koceljevi, Rakovci, Ubu, Nis, Kragujevac, doing well. So this law wasn't necessary at all and it wasn't necessary to do well. The Ministry Act, which was adopted in 2014, amended three times in 2015 and once in 2017, in part four where special organisations are, was also defined by the Republic Secretariat for Public Policies. In Article 33, it describes exactly what is in the jurisdiction of this Secretariat, and in order to carry out what you want, you did not need this Planning Act at all. The coordination didn't exist before, and it's gone now. The best example is, when it was on the agenda of the law in the field of education, I proved when an excellent medical student had to look for a job where she went to specialization because there was no coordination between state authorities in Serbia. Now, after today and before, of course, it was clear to me that it couldn't have been. There, the Department for Labour and Employment led from another party that had sent such a student, such an expert, to return to where she was specialising, because Serbia has no place for her. Take the lead, Minister, make sure we don't have cases like this in your time, so we're best forced out of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32960	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32961	We have submitted more amendments to Article 2, we have requested that this member be deleted in general, but since we have assumed that you will not accept it either from the Government or the Assembly majority, then we have proposed and we suggest that individual points be deleted and it seems to me that if there is any understanding, then this point 65. item 1 would really have to be deleted. This point speaks of the coordination of public policies. Among other things, you say – Keeping an eye on the mutual coherence of public policies, which adopt and implement and prioritize them. Indeed, using such expressions is absurd. What does that even mean to you? So, what you are, and it's always bad, and for 18 years we've been talking about it, we've talked to those who got a little tangled up and they ran away, that it's not good to take some law from some EU commission, there some clerk gets a nice piece of money to write and then just deliver it and it's really bad translates here, and then we really have funny proposals and later laws. Article 2. Otherwise, and this isn't just in this law, it's talking about the terms and meaning of this law, which, yesterday, I said, is offensive to the lawyers. It is no argument, i.e. it is no argument that the proposals are written on the basis of unique methodological rules for the making of rules. These are the rules adopted in 2010 by the Legislative Committee, which was then signed by Vlatko, as was his case, Ratkovic, yes, from the DS and I don't see why it obliges you? It's not the Holy Scriptures. Whatever We say to you, you say, We have inherited it. Well, it doesn't matter what you inherited from Vlatko Ratkovic, does it? So you really should deal with this. Also, in this article, and also in other laws, you say that all the terms in this law used in malehood are understood both in female and vice versa. Now that I'm interpreting it, the title above this article stands – notions within the meaning of this law. In accordance with this last view, the concepts and concepts of this law should stand. Or, I don't know, you have as many examples as you want -- the content of the strategy, I guess, then -- strategies and strategies, if it's in line with this law that you're proposing. The medium-term plan must stand – Plan and Planica. So I'm trying to draw your attention to how completely pointless this is. More says – The government cannot accept this amendment because it essentially does not contribute to the improvement of the bill. Minister Djordjevic, if you can explain to me, what is the fundamental improvement of the bill given by this Article 2? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32962	Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete item 1 from this article. Reading this proposal of the law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, I could not help but wonder how Serbia as a state has functioned so far. Everything seems to have been done unplanned, secret, no analysis whatsoever, no clearly defined goals. It must be as soon as the ruling structure feels that we need this law now. Well, even for this law, they didn't have experts to write it properly, but they gave it to bad translators to translate EU law. Now, this poorly translated EU law at point 2 explains the various concepts of public policy, which means the most important choice. He'll explain to us a lot of others. In particular, this point 7 explains that an analysis of the effects is an analytical process. To me, this whole term, reading it, seems like it was written by some who have defined themselves as a secret policy and teach us how to brainwash the people in the best way. That's how it works for me. Article 7, translated into the language of a common man, reads – during planning, formulating, applying, should be strictly kept in mind how to cloud the eyes of the people, because it is necessary to select optimal measures to achieve public policies, i.e. the most important choice, they say in the EU. What would our people say, lest the Vlachs know. This whole bill of law has been written in this style. If it were given to good translators, it would be clear to everyone that it should be rejected in general because it cannot be corrected by any amendment. This just needs to be erased. We already have a law like this so we don't embarrass ourselves here in the congregation anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32964	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32965	Article 2 The draft law on the design system is defined as the terms, i.e. the individual terms used in the law. We MPs of the SRS have repeatedly shown through amendments to the various draft laws that the overexplaination of the terms used in the laws or proposals of the law is excessive. It is obvious that this is happening and that it has already become a practice, because the laws you adopt under the EU directive are simply copied. To this member of the law my colleague and I have submitted several amendments. The amendment I have made requires that point 9 be deleted) of Article 1(2). The bill, which explains what the impact assessment of public policies is, is said to be an evaluation of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the public policy being implemented, i.e. which has been implemented, of its effects based on relevant data and analysis, as well as the results of monitoring the implementation in order to review and improve it, i.e. whether certain amendments need to be introduced. Here, and here you can clearly see that there's a missing word. So you overlooked part of the text while you were translating. Only this explanation that I quoted is completely unnecessary and only burdens the text of the law. It is also a very interesting explanation why this amendment is not accepted. Well, you say - the amendment is not accepted because it essentially does not contribute to the promotion of the bill. That's exactly what we're talking about. Why would the law include something that doesn't essentially contribute to the promotion of the law, but only burdens it, just like this definition of yours?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32966	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32967	Point 11 speaks exactly the same as point 1 and explains that the desired state is defined at the level of society and as such, we also had the opportunity yesterday to hear from the ruling majority MPs what it means unplannedly, that is, how they explained until their party's arrival in power and what it is now planned and the effects of planning them. We have heard examples from a colleague of mine of what is the result of the planning work on the case of Novi Sad, how much debt is left, how well and smart it is now, and how there is no borrowing. But I would also remind you that you have so many experts in other cities. I would also like to mention the former mayor of the city of Zaječar, Mr Velimir Ognjenović, who also planned well, found an unplanned cash register, in which, when he became mayor, he remained a debt of 2.5 billion dinars. He then found that the budget was damaged by more than 100 million in the name of the environmental taxis that charged by Zajecar from large polluters, 90 million of which were then the government, whose head was Bosko Nicic, transferred to the handball club, and 10 to the national team, i.e. travel and lunches. This would be no dispute if then the mayor Zaječar, mentioned Mr. Velimir Ognjenović, otherwise a member of the SNS, and in 2015 failed to file criminal charges with all evidence of the crime of government and the ruling Boška Nicic. But all this fell into the water on 2 September 2017, when Bosko Nicic flew into the SNS ranks. We couldn't hear yesterday whether your former mayor might have actually fooled the public, how the trial ended and whether Bosko Nicic was actually the best mayor the SNS has appointed in the last period. Should we forget all the accusations, which were mutual, between Bosko Nicic and his coalition partners or the current Bosko Nicic, who is advanced and who is not likely to leave, or the dots are not valid, will not leave any longer debt, will not damage the city of Zaječar's budget register, will not spend and charge environmental taxes? Just to remind you, the law says that when you charge for an ecological tax, that money can only be used for the environmental affairs of the city, to buy new containers, to edit the coast of Timok, to remove wild dumps, etc. A clear question arises – was this Bosko Nicic, whom we forgot, unplanned, who was then a Ursovite, a deesovac, what was he, all in all, in one word a dosmania, and now we have a new Bosko Nicic who is a forward-looking forwarder? On the other hand, we could also hear from our colleague from the ruling majority that she said there were no more problems in Belgrade when you came to solve certain of your jobs on the counters, and she even said that Micah, the famous counter killer, had now become the past. I will remind the public, while we are already talking about Belgrade, that the same MP from the party, which comes from the SNS, in 2012, promised Belgrade citizens an office for quick answers. The office may exist, and questions and answers hardly ever went public. Now we can ask the question - where did this office go and why is it gone and how is it possible that you are really trying to dissuade the public in this way? Third National MP from the ruling majority, distinguished colleague George Komlenski, I must fully agree with his presentation yesterday. He said that the Pudciad, which took place from 5 October 2000 to 2012, has done great damage, economic damage in Serbia. He called then the power of vermin that brought us back to the time after the First World War, but I repeat again for the public, and I absolutely agree with my esteemed colleague. At the same time, was Zorana Mihajlovic working in the cabinet, for example, Mr Miroljub Labus? Was the economy then managed by Mladjan Dinkic, who later became the adviser of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, and many others? It's just that this whole law has nothing to do with the fact. We have to always accuse those who are unplanned, and today you've put all those vermin of dosmania into the planning advances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32968	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does he want a word? The word is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this Law, and regarding this member, we were heard yesterday in this room, above all from the Members of the ruling majority and from the ministers themselves, the government's representatives, that foreign investment is something that is best for this country, something that leads to the vast development of this country. Of course, I have nothing against foreign investment, but I have to say that no country in the world has evolved just because of foreign investment. When it comes to foreign investment that comes to Serbia, it is, above all, outdated, dirty technologies. So it's not sophisticated technology, it's low-profit technology. I'm going to illustrate that with one example. I'm from the city of Nis. Let's say there's Yuru factories and Shin Von, Korean factories, which make cables, and it's usually cables of, let's put it in a simple language, weave it to the lamp's staff. The town of Nis, 40 years ago, and even over, had a semiconductor factory that at the time represented literally one small technological revolution and a lot more. So, after all, you're not foreign investment something that brings such a benefit as it says. Objectivity for, I must say, these factories I spoke of, "Jura" and "Shin Von" were brought to Nis even during democratic rule. When it comes to SNS authorities, they are these investments, I must admit, they have raised to a slightly higher technological level, so Johnson Electric and other factories have been brought in. That's far from what Nis once had. Nis also had a computer company called IBM, Hanivel, etc. 40 years ago, so I don't talk about it anymore. So it's not nearly what the citizens of Serbia represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32970	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32971	Thank you. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. Article 2 sets out the concepts used in this law and their meaning. We have proposed this amendment to delete points 14 and 16 in paragraph 1. Otherwise, what the SRS cannot agree with is that this bill is one of the reasons for the effective implementation of the EU accession process. Without any dilemmas or shame, the promoter stated that this law is adopted particularly in the context of the requirements arising from the negotiating chapters 17 – economic and monetary policy and 22 – regional policy and the coordination of structural instruments. The way this government has chosen, we can't fix the amendments, but we can constantly appeal that it's high time to break up with the so-called. through Serbia. All the events are in favour of the fact that this is not a good way for Serbia. A special argument to this claim is that the EU is constantly laying down requirements and the current Serbian government continues to continue the continuity of the previous and meets the requirements. The government does this without thinking, about the damage done to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. The position of the SRS is that this should be stopped urgently and laws that are of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are passed in the National Assembly, not meeting EU requirements that will never end with new conditions and to the detriment of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32972	Thank you. Did the People's MP Momcilo Mandic submit to the 2nd Amendment? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32973	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable fellow Members, I submit an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on the Serbian plan system, and I propose that point 18 be added to point 1: "Efficient planning – planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the rule of law. “ One reason for the adoption of the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia is, among other things, the need to establish an effective system of planning of the Republic of Serbia and units of local self - government. The draft law prescribes formats and mandatory content of different planning documents, and in order to bring practice into line, since only this can enable the establishment of an efficient planning system. Depending on the principle of reality and starting with respect to economic, spatial and administrative possibilities of limitations, it is necessary to take into account the efficiency of the design and implementation of the planning documents. Therefore, the draft law provides for the obligation to carry out an analysis of the public policy effects of making all documents of public policies and linking the process with the process of analysis of the effects of regulations when measures of public policy are carried out through regulations. In this way, an efficient planning system and a favourable regulatory framework for the development of society are provided. The adoption of the amendments would create an opportunity to demonstrate the overall capacity the state employs when applying the Law on the Plane System, which contributes to the affirmation of Serbia's overall development at the end of the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32974	Thank you. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32975	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 2(1), point 28 is added, and this amendment further defines the concepts of the bill. We heard in the explanation of the previous amendments by colleagues that a few objections to repetition and insisting on introducing concepts into the law were raised. However, it is our view from the SNS that concepts are an extremely important part and an integral part of this law. Fortunately, today we can deal with such laws, today many important laws are being passed in Serbia, and all of this contributes to the extraordinary progress and development of the Republic of Serbia, and thus we can deal with the concepts and terms in a unique way today. Today, the worker is really a worker and we can apply it as such in practice and really be the one who earns and pays for his work, and I will remind you that by 2012, the same workers had no respect, no remorse whatsoever, called the losers a transition. If, at that point in time, at one of the laws that they passed, what the worker meant as a term, they probably liked to be called losers of transitions, we were at the same time and a state where there was never less work and there was never at the same time and more extra employees. As they planned, you will see on the town of Kruševec that there are some action plans on the local self-government site, city administrations, that there are some plans that need to be achieved. The only thing that can be concluded is that at that moment the paper suffered everything, as well as the citizens of Serbia, who, fortunately today, no longer have to suffer the same power that led them until 2012. I'm just gonna show you how it worked. Here's the mayor's plan that was capable of the yellow company and spent 20 days in China, imagine, with as many as 17 other mayors from that period and who returned from China with a brilliant idea that Serbia could export dry plums to China. When you go to Wikipedia, and you type China, the first sentence is that China is the most human country in the world, and right below that you see that China, already in the second sentence, is the world's largest plum producer of as many as 4.1 million tons and makes up 45% of the world's total plum production. Mayor Kruševec, former yellow company, came from the road, spent 20 days in China and was with 17 mayors and returned with the idea that Serbia should sell the plum from Serbia to the world's largest producer. An exceptional export opportunity and these were plans by 2012. It is this law, these plans, which we are making today, these laws, that Serbia is progressing more and more and we will not be proud until the years ahead. Thank you so much for your trip.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32976	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Vlahović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32977	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, after a three-year period of the IMF agreement, following the adoption of difficult and painful fiscal consolidation measures, we are working on structural changes in this session. We have behind us a system reform of public finances that looks into reducing the deficits of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as the general state to the level of today's surplus and the reduction of public debt. How successful the government of the Republic of Serbia is in its work is the fact that the head of the World Bank's office in Serbia, Steven Ndegva, announced that the international lender, in addition to three approved new loans, will provide Serbia with further financial support to our country for tax policy reform and agriculture. From tax reforms through the efficiency of the energy labour market to strengthening business environment and prevention, increasingly natural disasters. He stressed that the bank is optimistic about Serbia's reforms, that it envisions greater economic growth this year compared to 2017 and that it continues to co-operate closely with the government of the Republic of Serbia. I must stress that progress in terms of economic growth is and how it feels and that in addition to this we are increasingly facing statements such as the statement made by the World Bank office chief in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32978	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32979	Thank you, Chairman. The proposed amendment focuses on inclusive education for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm trying to say is that inclusive education is the responsibility of all of us. Therefore, in addition to the reform of education, which we are implementing, active inclusion of other sectors in the organisation and provision of support for inclusive education and development of services at local level or local communities. In order to enable inclusive education, the state and government provide support for creating conditions for the full social inclusion of all citizens and citizens, above all to involve all our children in the education system. The movement of social inclusion, the most important part of educational inclusion, has led to children with developmental disorders, people with disabilities are no longer exclusively users of certain specialised professions and specialised institutions. The aim is to include all children, but all children, in a quality way, in the educational process and to achieve the best results in teaching each individual child, which is also the main indicator of the efficiency of an education system. I would like to say that the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, which is on today's agenda, is very precise and crystal clear and because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the citizens of Nis, I would like to say that the city of Nis has an urban plan as a strategic development plan plan. The total area of the construction area of the general urban plan developed through 22 general regulation plans per section of the settlement is 155.89 square kilometers. Currently, the Niš City Assembly adopted 16 general regulation plans, representing 78% of the total area of the construction area of the general urban plan. There are three more general regulation plans ahead of adoption, representing 12% of the total area area area of the general urban plan, and three other general regulation plans are under way, which represents another 10% of the total area of the construction area of the general urban plan. During 2018, the construction area of the city of Nis covered by the general urban plan will be covered by planning documents from which, in the most part, a building permit for such a surface will be obtained directly, and I repeat, it is 155,89 square kilometers, and all of this is very important for the citizens of Nis, for future investors, for the construction of traffic and other municipal infrastructures, as well as for preventing wild construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32980	By amendment, Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32981	Thank you. This law ahead of us is of paramount importance and I will confirm this by saying in Article 184 of this Rules of Procedure that the proposal for a plan for the development of the Republic of Serbia and the proposal for a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia cannot be adopted by an urgent procedure, and here in the Assembly, above all, are in the assembly procedure. These are the highest-level laws and give one general, general framework for the individual synchronised functioning of low-level plans. In that sense, we wanted to contribute to the improvement of this law, we have very seriously approached this law because we believe it is very important, and we believe that European legislation is there, their positive experiences are very important, however, that they are not fully transposed into this law. In Article 2 paragraph 1), we are changing it and it should say that public policy is the process of establishing the objectives and direction of action of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous provinces and units of local self-government in certain areas, in order to achieve and protect public interests. So we add instead of saying "desirable goals" the term "public interest", thinking that public interest is more comprehensive than the expression – desired objectives, at the level of society. The achievement and protection of interest consists not only of achieving the desired objectives, but also of measures to ensure the protection of rights or security in society and may relate to certain categories of society or social group. The concept of public interest can refer to society as a whole, for example, in the case of environmental protection, it can refer to local interests, for example, in the case of infrastructure projects of national importance, where the interest of local communities must be seen as public interest and the state is obliged to protect that interest of the local community by being a public interest, even if conflicts of interest and objectives arise. It can then apply to the public interest of certain social groups, for example, the protection of persons with disabilities, consumer protection, where the public interest of certain groups also becomes a state interest and the state must protect it. In that sense, in order for all of this to be respected, it's very important that here I want to deal with the present and look into the future, and not to convince what's been back 10 years, if we want positive examples from history we should go much, much further and I wear it as a tradition and a positive experience but I live in the present, in that sense it's important that the public's participation in the adoption of these plans is changed, that its highest degree is possible. So full transparency is needed to bring quality plans and to have the right weight for this proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system, a positive effect in implementation. So we can define the public, and in this sense we have introduced amendments to this law, where the public means one or more natural and legal persons, in accordance with national legislation, their associations, organisations or groups. It's a change we wanted to make in this Article 2 and add to the interested public. It is part of the public that is affected or likely to be affected or has some interest in the process of creating or implementing public policy. I personally believe that this interested public is growing and that it cannot be and that it is taking an active part in creating its local policies. So this is the most important thing in all – to involve the public in the process of making plans, whether they are long-term, medium-term or short-term. I have already pointed out that it is not enough for the draft plan to be submitted to the public by any law in the classical debates, for which the proposer usually late informed the public and then there is a very small number of interested ones. So, in the process of drawing up these plans or in the process of making any law public to engage at the very beginning. I therefore believe that the interest of local communities would then be much better protected and plans would be made that are much more necessary and quality. In order for all of this to be done, it is necessary that this electronic administration does indeed work immaculately. We don't have to lie, it's far from impeccable work and it's the implementation of all the laws we've passed here, so, about e-government, about electronic business, it's very slow and still unquality. The systems are clogged, the software is inadequate, we don't have fully trained people who deal with it, and we have a big problem. To talk about one click on a button and we get all the necessary information, it's absolutely not true. Real life behind these doors exists, and in real life, healthcare professionals are tortured in electronic business and users of their services, tax officials in electronic business and users of their services. In a united electronic procedure for obtaining building permits, everything we hear is really not true. That's where the participants, who work out the projects and the ones who give them the permits, are struggling because it's all going slowly and these 15-day deadlines we hear are getting building permits, that's not true at all. These are the deadlines that last a year, we haven't moved that much, and we have big problems. This can't be done quickly and should simply be admitted. This is the first stage, a painful, arduous one, where we haven't worked on education or professional or general public, but it will in some period, in five, 10, 15 years, when already, bring the desired goal. We should not say that this is a great success and that it is now happening that it all works fantasticly, because it does not work fantasticly, but it needs to take steps to educate the professional public and how the general public can educate that it could still work much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32982	Thank you. By amendment, MP Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32983	I'd like to say some things that are not true in this presentation. It is true that not everything is perfect, but if our electronic administration and our e-business office received a world award two months ago in Geneva from the UN, that means that we in these proportions, in those relations with other countries, have taken huge steps, that should be told the citizens. We started not from scratch, we started from negative. We have trained people and it's not all that ideal and it can't be solved by one click, I agree, there's a lot of problems, but we've made a huge success. People who have done this should be commended and said – bravo, bravo for the first place in the world when it comes to electronic administration and that it will probably be better in the future. After your discussion, I'd have concluded that nothing was wrong if we hadn't made any moves. We've done a lot in world terms, and that's guaranteed and that proves the reward we got in Geneva two months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32984	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32985	First of all, sir, it's not about the world's prize, secondly, I never say anything by heart, and I'm my own insider, I'm gathering information from my projects and from my business. So that's absolutely not true. I accept the confession, and I will always commend that we have received our confession. We got a confession that from the zero point we moved a little further. But I'm going to say, since we here in the Assembly need to be a representative example of this many years of lifelong learning, which I'm going to repeat once more, and perfecting, so all of us here in the O.R. and all of us here in the Assembly around the O.R., the moment I can sign my amendments with my electronic signature and send an e-mail to the Assembly, means to enter the procedure, I'm going to think it's one step forward, at least in the Assembly. No, we're still squatting at the office, running to hand over these amendments with a personal signature, a simple signature, and we've introduced an e-business law where the electronic signature is fully equal to the signature of itself. What are we talking about? We here in the Assembly cannot introduce electronic business and digitization. We're talking about some papers that have been lifted. We're covered in piles of paper, and we want to bring it to the public. What you said isn't really true. Let the reward be given, I'll say hello. She's an incentive, I get it that way, given and that's good. But, realistically, the situation on the ground is quite different. I'm telling you once again, behind these assembly doors where people work, they lose their jobs, their companies fail, they change their operations, they go to the bureaus, they go to their health books, they try to schedule medical checks, something else is happening, than what we're talking about here. So we're talking about some fantastic life, which, of course, we're all trying not to have problems with ordinary life things, and in the field, there's actually something else going on. People struggle, they have a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32986	The word has a People's Messenger, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32987	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I feel the need to react to what we just heard. It turns out, according to the previous statement, that we did something wrong when we were talking here about really good things being achieved in the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to digitisation, the domain of e-government, the improvement of services in that domain. So absolutely nothing's wrong. It was said just now, it's not about any world prize, but I don't know what it is, if there's any alternative explanation of what it was. It has been said that it is not about any achievement, but it is about getting something started and moving from a dead end. Well, it's wrong for both of us. I'll read to you what the news is, not only on the sites of our institutions, but also on the so-called. independent media and those who seem to disagree politically with us. It literally reads as follows: "The IT and eGovernment Office is the winner of the prestigious world prize to contribute to the development of information technologies". So it's about the world's prize and nothing wrong with fellow Jokic, on the contrary, he was absolutely right. The award is shared with IT, UNESCO, UNDP, UNCTAD. The office for IT and e-Government has managed to win the award in a sharp competition of 685 registered and 492 nominated projects of government institutions, companies, organisations, civil society and the whole world. So it is about how those who have awarded this prize contribute to the results that have been achieved and achieved. I understand that in the heat of political struggle sometimes there is a desire to be sharper than it should be, but ladies and gentlemen, look at what the note looks like about everything that's going on in this room. Among other things, on the National Assembly site, which is also one of the topics when we talk about modernising our system, as they are processed, for example, in the e-parliament system. I think anyone who is as a national envoy, among other things, and the user of these services, will be satisfied. So we can always move the scale a little bit more. It's not a dispute, but let's not be critical about everything around us and that every good result and every success, because it's a success together, it's a success not only of the institution we belong to, but of the whole society and of the state, to welcome it together. It's a fair and correct relationship. If we want to go too far, even in our criticism and negative tones, then we risk making a mistake in everything. It's hard to make mistakes, like when it comes to these qualifications, rewards and our institutions, and the laws we're discussing. We've been making a mistake since the beginning, so we say something's been going on here by emergency procedure. This law entered the procedure on 6 September 2017. When we start with a mistake, then we're wrong and we're falling to the end. We shouldn't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32988	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32989	Thank you. Just to make some sense of things. The government of the Republic of Serbia is one, if you know in the exposé of our Prime Minister, one of the most important priorities is digitisation. We think that this will contribute to our citizens' having a more efficient state administration, but also to their own problems and to the things that they come up with today with very complex and complicated administrative things, they don't do it in the future and they can do it in a simpler way. The process is not a bit simple and requires a lot of segments to be done, while keeping them connected and not being able to work in the opposite way, or that they can naturally lean on each other and do not require that some of them later seek to do or possibly invest some additional financial resources to cross each other. In the end, I would also link it to the Ministry of Labour who is working on a project to produce social cards, which should ultimately sublime everything that exists in the state of Serbia, when it comes to databases and that in some way by crossing data we can come up with the structure of our citizens and deprive them of even in some cases, where in the meantime they will apply to get what they need in a faster way, in the future, without any application. It is the idea for the state to be responsible for its citizens, that it recognises the one who needs it and that this assistance by automation should be granted, and that the moment there is no need for it, it should also take away. Let us deprive ourselves of the possibility that someone is misusing it and that we can be sure that the aid and all that the state gives goes into the right hands, and that the citizens know that what the state singles out in its budget is doing in a transparent way and that it distributes justly. I think it's the idea of both our society and that we, both as a society and as a whole and as a state, and this government has put it into an amannet, we are going towards it, and I believe that in 2020, we will also achieve this roof system of social cards modelled by some countries that have developed in the best possible way and that Serbia will be side by side with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32990	The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32991	I thank Minister Djordjevic for his reply. And I agree with that somewhere, and I think it'll all be, I hope, someday. That is why I have made a very serious approach to trying to improve some amendments to this law. I'm going to have to look back on what my former colleague, Mr. Orlic, said. First, he paraphrased me wrong. I did not say that this law was passed by an emergency procedure, but I pointed out the importance of this law by proposing a plan for development of RSPR, it has paraphrased me wrongly. I did not say that this law was passed by an urgent procedure, but I stressed the importance of this law by proposing a plan for the development of the Republic of Serbia and the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, which are actually an integral part of this law that we are talking about, cannot be adopted by emergency procedure and brought by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So that was the reason why I believe this law has great significance. Moreover, about this recognition that has come, it has been given as a contribution to development. It was obtained by experts, an office that contributed to the development of electronic administration. If you have desires and hearings and you want any controversy, you have to follow what's going on in the field. In the field, it's really not like that, and people are struggling. If you think that's all we've done... . (President: You are bringing the end of your colleague Pavlovic. What? (President: Time for your parliamentary group is up. ) For the MP group or for the authorized? (President: Both for the parliamentary group and for the authorised representative. All right. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32992	Here's an excellent example, ladies and gentlemen, of how things work in the field. I've looked into this e-parliament service now and you're Mr. Chairman, no more time for discussion. I see it among other things using these modern, modern, digital services that I'm talking about. We need ladies and gentlemen to be correct and fair maximum. It can't be when something doesn't suit you to move a harder story, it doesn't have anything to do with anyone politically, it's about some independent experts and independent people. Every one of us dreams and responsibility, which means, is followed by praises and regrets for what is happening in his day and doesn't have to bother anyone that good things and successes in Serbia are being recorded today, so that they are ignored and therefore wants to minimise them, to attribute them to some imaginary faces and to try not to hear or know about them. Those are good things to say hello to. The game of the case will be something that we will be able to record as a result and success in the period of honor, the duty to take care of Serbia. It is wrong, as it is completely wrong for you today to hear Boris Tadic or Vuk Jeremic, that it is not our fault, but that some of the experts we hired were doing it, so they did it all wrong. So it's completely wrong for something good that happens in Serbia today, and that's why today is also said today -- good examples are seen in history. There are more of them today. It's wrong to ignore what time they came. Serbia is a joint house, and as we should be united over joint concern in times of trouble and trouble, so we should be able to agree on a common finding that something good is happening in Serbia. I guess that's something he's using everybody. Tomorrow, the God of health will be a good foundation for us to build on him together. Someone who's in a position to be held accountable at that moment. If they're fair and they're correct, people on the other hand might get a chance, and that's how I end up, Mr. Chairman, to find them in that role. If they perform exclusively negatively and criticise what is good for the citizens and the state, I fear they deny themselves the opportunity to ever look after anything again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32993	National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Majkic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Mother, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32994	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, have tabled an amendment to Article 2(2) of Article 1 to further define another basic concept in the proposal for a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. In view of this, this law regulates both medium-term planning and management of public policy systems, it is necessary to bring and adopt it in the voting day, especially because in the past we have many examples of bad planning and the consequences that this poor planning produces. So we have a reform of the 2008 judiciary that may have brought benefits to the DS in the short term, but in the medium term, as this law plans, could only lead to a breach of judicial independence, and also to lower quality judgments. Also, we have one of the bad examples of past planning, that is, when the Social Protection Act was passed in 2011 that law passed jurisdiction on to local self-government, i.e. They were given the obligation to finance certain social protection services, but the transfer of funds was not transferred to local self-government, it was only corrected in 2016 and for five years after the law was passed, when the first transfers were given to local self-governments in Serbia. On the other hand, one of the best examples of good public policy and good planning is the inflation rate in the Republic of Serbia, which has been stable, small and well-planned over the past five years. We have examples of good planning in many local self-government in Serbia today which are well-planned and rationalized spending and rationalization of public administration led to budget savings and which led to the possibility of investing in infrastructure and industrial zone as well as the city of Kikinda from which I come, is precisely the rationalisation of spending and rationalisation in the public sector, it was that in 2015 the first industrial zone in this city was opened, and today it was due to the opening of that industrial zone in four parts of the company for over 800 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32995	According to the amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32996	My colleague Mike, you've started a topic, and I'm here, it's gonna be a little weird, since you're from the ruling structure to agree in part with you. So, everything that's happened in the past, you haven't corrected it, but I'm going to talk specifically about one part of your discussion, and it's about the theft of DS, because here's Alexander Jerkov, as a representative of that regime that burned and burned, robbed Serbia, left people without a job, and that's actually the biggest crime. Persecuting people from work, leaving them on the street, having nothing, having no children to eat, nothing to eat. Here, I see here, everything's nice to her, bitch messages, enjoys it, receives the pay. Well, what kind of gigs to gossip about, Mrs. Radeta, she knows best. On the other hand, we have a situation that the key problem is that the rest of these yellow judges are in most of the basic courts. I was saying, Mr. Minister, you know it best when you took over the resort, you saw how many companies those from the yellow thief company drove into bankruptcy. One hundred and eighty-eight is listed in 2015, and it may have increased later, and you might know that because you're a member of the Finance Committee, but the biggest problem is that nothing could have been done with people who were systematically deceived, robbed, and it actually started since 2001 and when it came to that point, which the people would have said was already more mud and water over their heads, people had to manage themselves and look for jobs. Now, colleague Mikeic, when you address that yellow thief side, you must bear that in mind, since I assume that the same problem with you in Kikinda, as with many other colleagues in Serbia's cities, is that nothing touches them. It is important for them to destroy the constitutional, state order, to listen to orders from Scott and other Western villains, to work more against their country and their people, to make up, slander and lie, to accuse Serbian heroes like our president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, whom you are witnesses of, as well as the whole Serbian people of fighting the evildoers of The Hague alone, of being a war criminal, we hear it from this thieving enterprise and personally from the mouth of Aleksandra Jerkov, this morning. You know, when we have to lead a congregation debate in such an atmosphere, then the question arises, and what have you been doing and where have you been all these years to process these thieves, to mark them as traitors, to do evil against their people and their country, and you know, and so is my colleague Markovic, Orlic, not to call you from the bench, to say that they do so further, to meet with individual ambassadors of the Western countries, to slander my people, my country, to work together. Well, yes, as Mrs. Radeta says, some go to some, probably hotel rooms and receptions and so on. So, you're looking at it all, you're watching it, and we now need in such a smooth and fine atmosphere to conduct a debate on a law that is essentially not so important to the prosperity of the state and the people, but you know you must clearly stamp all those who are evil for the Serbian people and the Serbian country. I will do it, as well as fellow Serbian radicals, to do it everywhere and in every place and when the cameras are turned off and when I'm not at the assembly speaker, because however you look, and you have the stenograms of all the sessions that we had until 2012, while they were burning and harassing Serbia, you will see that there is nothing left but desolation and that people like that should be repeated every day so that it may reach their brains, but I don't believe that it can ever happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32997	Right on line, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32998	So, in no word do I think of sending any insult to you personally or any MP or MP sitting in this room, but I am standing here to raise my voice against this tone and the dictionaries and expressions that we have forgotten since the 1990s on this side. Yesterday, I called on the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, to tell us, and he came out of the O.R., in which way will the state react to the threats of two of our fellow Members, the threat and the threat of their lives? Unfortunately, none of the colleagues and colleagues stood up and raised their voice against such a threat. We hear the same thing today, the tone that attacks MPs and MPs in this way, and of course we remember the 1990s and the result of such verbal violence against people in this assembly, but also of verbal violence against all political opponents. This has done little good, therefore, to other nations, other religions, other political options. This will not do Serbia any good, and I call on you to raise your voice against this way and relations both with MPs and MPs, but also with all those who think differently in Serbia. We have seen today and in these issues, you have one President of the Municipality of Paracin, one of the only from the Democratic Party, which is the target and which is disturbing precisely because of the fact that among 175 presidents of municipalities and cities in Serbia, the only president of the municipality from the DS is the target and he will be intruding until the moment when the president who is successfully leading this Assembly. That's what it says about this impatience and impatience. Today we're talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u32999	You're bringing the end of my colleague Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33000	I'll use the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33001	You can't, because you got it from a replica. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. ) You do not have a colleague Jovanovic right to replicate My colleague Ciric said "due to this kind of speech" and you consider it a right to replication? [[Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I have the right to a replica.)]] What kind of speech is that, did he say? What's his glamour? You can't treat your colleagues like that. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33002	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman, so I don't have to worry about you, because I see it's very hard to work today when some of you are trying hard to make the conditions inadequate for work. Since the question is asked, of course, that we are very well aware of who did it and what merits it is, and it is not at all disputed that our position about it is clear, but we are all witnesses in Serbia today, and we are meeting this strange phenomenon, that when something that is obviously bad, which is strikingly black, says, this is not right, it was wrong with the law or not correct, we get comments from the other side of the type – it's all a political programme, it's all the experience of the authoritarian majority, standard and classical excuses. Not a few times, we talked in this room about how many different representatives of the former regime from different levels of government were responding to the laws of this country because they were obviously wrong and we were always getting on the other side of the comment – it was political persecution and there is no real guilt. Whether it is or not, institutions should always be tried, whether these processes are being conducted properly, whether it is in line with how citizens expect it from the state, and then finally, the court itself gives. That we stand for a state that has no problem with such phenomena, which is clearly determined by crime, corruption, abuse, that's more than clear. This is also seen from the results achieved in the plan of official state institutions, it is also seen in the estimates of all our international partners, who say our results in the field are impressive. One well-intentioned message for all those who want to get anything bad today, incorrectly or contrary to the law in Serbia, assessed as political persecution, always go away and look first into their own backyard. To a gentleman today who cares about the Paracian municipality, everything that has been responded to today can be resented. It's not right, correctly, in the end, it's not human to accuse your own country, and he did, it seems to me in some paid ad yesterday for political murders. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not working. You start with that, you figure it out, and we'll talk about everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33003	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33004	I trusted Mr. Arsic, as a politician with years of experience and as someone who knows that any insult and violation of the Parliament's dignity is something you should react to, that you will do it in the speech of Goran Ciric. You were also obliged to protect the dignity of the Assembly and of the MPs against such slanders and lies that were spoken the moment he was given the right to reply. The mention of the 1990s, the loss of the Serbian people and all the crimes we have suffered from the Ustasha hordes...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33005	You just want to say a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33006	All that our people had to endure because of those who support the politics of Western powers who did everything they could to tear our country apart, to drive the people away, to keep people out of their hearths, and to keep those who spoke do not remember their own period when he was very nice and when he enjoyed being the director of the Post Office, swept into all his functions... The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, throws but he doesn't understand. I'd like to ask you to tell this thing there that it doesn't interrupt me when I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33007	Col. Jovanovic, tell me finally which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33008	... And when I use my right as a Messenger of the people. I have called on Article 107 and Article 27, and I ask you to protect in the future the dignity of the National Assembly from those who should be silent and cover themselves with ears and not speak the word because of all the bad they have done to both the people and the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33009	I don't think I hurt those members of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) Right to replica, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33010	So this is not a replica to the previous exposure. You called precisely for analysis and personal responsibility for what we did, here I am standing before you with personal responsibility for everything I've done since and since the 1990s or mid-80s when I started my professional career. I think it would be fairest if each of us put our personal lives ahead of all of us here and told us what we were doing and where we were. In all these accusations that we've heard about the yellow company about yellow traitors, who's been meeting locators in the 1990s, who are calling for NATO bombings, and I'm inviting you to say where you were in 1999? I was in the 1990s in this political party that advocated a peaceful solution to the SFR JOT problem, the peaceful political solution unfortunately was not so smart, but the moment our country was attacked in 1999, as a member of the missile units I was in Kosovo in 1999 and defended my country and defended children in Serbia. It's my responsibility and I'm proud of it. That's why I don't allow anyone to accuse people of DS, because we're individuals, because there were a lot of them at that war in 1999, as I was, there were members of all parties, there were members who weren't members of any party, but you insult these people in this way. This way of speaking and these toxic accusations have, unfortunately, led us into major accidents and what you're talking about, about the state of Serbia is, in fact, the result of those 1990s, the ten-year wars in this area that are hard to recover precisely because of this, when the world has made hastily progress, because these were the most productive... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33011	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33012	We've said it every time, we'll say it now and whenever we need to. To those who participated in the defense of the country in any way, all honor, but not all honor can be done to those who encouraged and supported those who attacked this country. Let it be on a personal level, so let it be for those who took part in the defense once more, every honor. But if they shared political organizations with people who were on the other side, because they wanted to, they can't share it with each other. Everyone as well as he deserved. There's no right for anyone to be angry. Everyone chose their own environment. (Goran Ciric: Where have you been? ) When we talk about the yellow company, I quote the working group of the yellow company that wrote in its report that they staged their own tenders, that they staged their own competitions, that they built themselves up for percentages. In that report, they call themselves yellow thieves and do not be angry with others. What they wrote about themselves is now read aloud to them. When we talk about a toxic relationship and I don't know what kind of verbal rhetorical performance, I said earlier – the poison in Serbia today can be found very clearly when someone takes, so let's say in a tabloid, like "Today", leased from a pair of local self-government, for which all mouths complain there's no money, that it's cramped in poverty because the evil stepmom is Serbia, and not that money, although it's not true, and of those money they don't take and buy the whole side to advertise itself. What he's doing, maybe it brings some benefit to that local self-government, I doubt it, but maybe only in theory, and then he spends a whole cell block on brutal accusations against his own state. What if it's not poison, what if it's not a brutal attitude towards the state when someone takes and says in that paid ad – political murders are being committed in Serbia today? What does that look like? It's not only a notorious lie, it's a human shame. I say again, in my backyard to clean up, and let's talk about whatever anyone wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33013	On what basis are you answering, Mr. Kiriq?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33014	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33015	He mentioned the president of the Paracino municipality, who paid the state money for the ad, an article he spoke against the state. He's told you, and it's an honor to have you in the war. You asked him where he was. He was 16. Then he was 16 and his happiness and I don't want him to have the experience of the war that you and I have. Let's move on to the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33016	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, new laws are being passed to improve the state of play and to improve the lives of citizens and it is really quite unclear why we have been listening here for days why the MPs of our parliamentary group amounted to everything that was bad in certain areas of public policies that were led in the previous period. Well, it's a kind of bad-state evaluation that's been inherited and that has to be changed by both new law and new public policies. One of the most important things that certainly contributes to the adoption of this law is not only the definition of how public policies are adopted, not only evaluations, nor policies, but the coordination of public policies. Only co-ordination of public policies at the state level will be able to provide a strong, stable and efficient state that will best protect state and national interests. Unfortunately, in the previous period, not that we were not witnesses to it, but we had quite the opposite, the decommissioning of the state and examples of how we were getting in the face of the world and how different and catastrophic national policies were being conducted within the same government. There have been a lot of talk these days about Kosovo. I'm going to give an example that literally says how important this law is, and how it was done in the previous period, so that we got in the face of the world, because we had two different policies in the same government. The foreign minister at the time, Vuk Jeremic, submitted a UN resolution, which, according to the UN's knowledge at the time, provided support to ensure that before the vote of the Republic of the same government, the president of the same government ordered that the resolution be withdrawn in order to remove the decision on Kosovo from the UN to the EU, whose disastrous consequences we are aware of today. What could we have expected when we have two different public policies, an unsolicited policy, and we have an international public embarrassment? It is those who wanted us to have a divided, weak government, who today tell us that the strong government is something undemocratic and that having a strong government in Serbia is not a democracy, and that they enjoyed and ran a policy against Serbia's interest when we had a weak government, when we had a divided government, and then such a government was most appropriate to them. This law allows for the coordination of public policies, strong state policy, a stable government, an effective government and a completely certain policy that will safeguard state and national interests and lead an independent, sovereign and independent policy. Such a policy is being conducted today in Serbia, and this law will further improve it in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33017	Thank you. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Mikhailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33018	As part of my amendment, I'm going to talk about medium-term planning, its significance and the case of a Valjev company, which is a Valjevska brewery, to open up a problem that I think we should talk about in the future. Medium-term planning is also necessary because of globalisation, which we have also talked about because of faster economic development, because of greater efficiency. This medium-term planning is already applied by Valjevska brewery between 2013 and 2017. During that period of four years, personal incomes in the Valjevska brewery increased by 40%. The Valjevska brewery has paid a billion and 900 million in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. She only paid a billion and 59 million for excises. The Valjevska brewery was privatized in 2000, and then robbed, and brought into bankruptcy and then became a state-owned company. As a state-owned company since 2013 with medium-term planning with 205 workers Valjevska brewery is today the pride and pillar of the Valjev economy. Why am I talking about the Valjev brewery today and that planning? Because Valjevska brewery has made a development plan for the next four years, for the period from 2018 to 2021, where production growth will be with index 117, cost growth with index 112. They'll get index 265. I'm asking you a question. Valjevska brewery is on the list of enterprises to be privatised in the future. As an MP, I believe that the Valjevska brewery, if it does business like this and with these results, should not be privatised and that it should remain the property of the state. That's what most Valjevs share in my opinion. Valjevska brewery with these indicators that I'm talking about is capable of credit and with the help of the state to expand its capacities, because what Valjevska brewery today provides with its business in cultural, sports field, to the extent that all organizations in Valjevo help, it will not do any private, I am convinced of. Even this man who today is the first man of the brewery, tomorrow if the brewery were his, honor him, and he wouldn't be doing what he's doing right now. I'm saying, these are impressive results, and we need to think carefully about the path we're going. Gentlemen, does everything have to be private? I claim and I can prove and here's evidence from Valjev that when the state owns it, and when you have capable people, it's an even better variant than private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33019	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Nenad Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33020	Dear Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 2(2), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The draft law adds a point 18) effectiveness of planning. The amendment further defines the basic concepts of the draft law. The stability and exchange rate of dinars stems primarily from political and financial stability, on which we can count on new investments and new jobs. The proposed Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia can be counted on even sustainable development in certain areas. These are guaranteed by participants in the planning system which determines public policies. By adopting a document of public policies, participants are the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and local authorities in accordance with their jurisdiction. In addition to having coordinated public policy planning, we also have a mechanism relating to the control of the implementation of public policies through the control and implementation of medium-term plans, but also through the regulation of reporting obligations on the implementation of medium-term plans by competent authorities for the implementation of control measures or activities in the public policy document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33021	Thank you. The People's MP, Milovan Krivokapic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague, Krinakopić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33022	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted Amendment 2 to Article 2 of this Act, which adds item 18, which reads - The efficiency of planning, i.e. planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on undeveloped municipalities. Points 1 to 17 define the terms used in this law in detail. In order to explain my amendment and how important it is to further define the term "efficulty of planning", I will try to explain through the essence and importance of planning itself and everything that comes from planning. In order not to come up with a situation to wonder what a mistake is, why things never go according to plan, we have to focus on the future by planning, and in this way we will respond faster to the changes in the environment. In order for the planning system to be efficient, certain rules should be followed, i.e. each individual should be engaged in the planning process, then the plan should provide resources to meet future needs and planning must be a continuous process and ultimately planning and the planning system itself should meet the needs of the future with respect to the current situation. The previous government has not learned the meaning and essence of many things, but also of the planning system itself because serious state leadership is not imagination, dreaming of what we will do in the coming period, but of deciding what we are going to do today in order to achieve our goals tomorrow. The state can save the most if it plans well, it has a good plan system, because it will ensure that it invests less in the resources needed to achieve overall results. We can freely say that the planning system, the time-sighted intention of developing and promoting a state that will serve citizens, potential investors and creditors equally, is a positive result of the overall development of the state itself, and certainly undeveloped municipalities. The efficiency of planning directly stems from good planning. The design system is efficient if it achieves its purpose not only time or spent resources. In view of all of the above, I must stress that in Article 2 of points 1 to 17, the detailed meaning of the term of this law is defined, but it is necessary to further define the effectiveness of planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special focus on undeveloped municipalities, which is very important and therefore I have carefully analysed the points mentioned, proposed an amendment supplementing Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33023	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A fellow Eagle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33024	Thank you very much. And efficiency as an aspect is, of course, very important in terms of handling strategic documents, plans, programmes, but also in the realization of these strategic plans. What today is reality in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely no one can deny. So, seriously, a systematic approach among other things has led us to have no more difficulty, on the contrary. With ease, we answer all questions concerning employment issues, issues of open new businesses, new jobs created. Sometimes critics of everything and everything against the de facto results achieved on this plan fought by negativity, said there were no new factories, said there were no new plants, and now it's so obvious that it's a lot of comical to deny them, they went to some new approach, and then they started with topics like – These are bad jobs, they're cheap jobs, they're non-quality jobs. We come to the point where the state takes serious and responsible action, not only to attract jobs that involve some kind of manual creation, but also to those that are more complex in its structure, and to top-level jobs. And we talked here about great examples, like those in the IT sector that carry average net wages of 700, 800, thousand, 1,000 and half euros and come up with a phenomenal situation. Today, you're accusing us of not doing it right either, because we don't have to support such jobs because you're imagining this thesis now, that way we're making it more expensive and destroying competition in the labour market. Those who are full of mouths lagging over--Why are the wages small; today they claim—although they are paid to be as little as possible, they must not be great. What would you say? Whatever you turn around, it's no good. Lucky for Serbia. Serbia knows very well what is good for her. Serbia knows very well what is useful to her, and therefore supports those who are able to provide Serbia with the job. In all possible formats and in the number of 170 thousand completely new jobs, which is something that today absolutely no one seriously can deny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33025	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33026	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia regarding the effectiveness of planning with a view to improving judicial institutions. The reason for the adoption of this law is the need to establish an efficient, transparent, co-ordinated and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, covering all key aspects, social and economic development policies and regional and spatial development with optimal use of budgetary resources, ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia, including the AP and local self-government units, as well as effective implementation of the EU accession process. The draft law also requires the implementation of public policy analyses and effects when drawing up all documents of public policies and linking the process with the process of analysis of the effects of regulations, when measures of public policy are carried out through regulations. Such a system provides for the harmonisation of the legal framework for the business and life of citizens, i.e. ensuring an efficient planning system and a favourable regulatory framework for the development of society. For the lives of citizens and for the development of society, it is necessary to improve the quality and efficiency of justice, strengthen the independence and accountability of the judiciary in order to strengthen the rule of law, democracy, legal certainty, bring justice closer to citizens and restore citizens' trust in the justice system. Serbia has worked hard on this plan, but there is certainly much more to be done when it comes to inherited problems in the judiciary, because when you have a situation that the former regime has placed all prosecutors and judges in the godless reform of the judiciary, the problems of inefficiency and political influence on the judiciary are imminent. Therefore, I repeat, there is much more to be done to get a judicial system, in which judicial institutions and judicial holders are freed from any illicit influence and pressure, which would hinder justice, and I believe that Serbia, headed by President Aleksandr Vukic and this Government, will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33027	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. A colleague, Jolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33028	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, this amendment is complemented by Article 2(1). Proposal for a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, Article 2 of this Bill explains the meaning of all the concepts that arise in the design of certain planning documents, all in order to develop the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the definition, the meaning of the public policy of the planning system, the participants in the planning system that determines public policies, the management of public policy systems, the coordination of public policies, the analysis of the effects, the monitoring of public policy implementation, the evaluation of the impact of public policies, the reporting of the implementation and the effects achieved, the general and specific objectives of public policy, as well as the effects and impact indicators, it is very important to see the effectiveness of planning. How planning a process involving the selection of tasks and objectives and the action to achieve them requires a decision, i.e. a choice between future objectives, is successful, i.e. Efficient, planning is a condition for reorganising the planning process. The town of Novi Pazar recognized the importance of adopting development and other planning documents, the city's leadership is working intensively on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33029	By amendment, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33030	We could support this amendment, therefore, with a few additional questions for the amendment promoter and for the present Minister Djordjevic. So here you are proposing the effectiveness of planning, planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a particular focus on better access to economic resources. I agree. It is necessary to have better access to economic resources and the way it will be exploited. That's a question for you, too, and for Mr. Secretary. The Law on Public Property was adopted here in this Assembly in 2011. Political decision and policy on the adoption of this law were the return of property to cities, municipalities, local self-government and public enterprises, and the aim of this law is to manage these very economic resources more effectively, this property. So in 2011, there was this previous majority. In 2014, three years after the deadline for the application of the law of three years, that deadline was extended and thus a verified policy, a public policy on the return of property and registration of property and local self-government, cities, municipalities and public enterprises. This was also a prerequisite for future co-operation, for the way in which public enterprises will be more efficient, but also for local self-government that needs to be dealt with not only, of course, with municipal affairs, but also with incentives for local, economic development. Entering property is a prerequisite for encouraging local economic development. After three years, the extension of the deadline and the re-confirmation of the majority, so the majority reaffirmed the law and public return policy. Now the question - what are we making these decisions for, and for the amendment promoter, then what is the view that the government is now making conclusions that make recommendations to local self-governments to return that property to the state, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has confirmed through this majority and through its proposals to extend the deadlines that it is necessary? So that's something that's in a contradictory relationship. I'm interested in your explanation here. And, of course, you can see that this is the current moment for the transfer of Nis Airport assets. One more question about this for the minister here present, because we need to take advantage of that opportunity to clarify these very things. The question – why is it that Serbia's airport, but Serbia's airport, d.o.o., was not founded? So it's obviously an idea, and you can see by looking at the APR and registering, that a Serbian d.o.o. company is formed, therefore, a shareholder society, not a public company of Serbia's airports. So I'll remind you of Article 7. The law on public undertakings, which states that the conditions for the exercise of the general interest of general interest under Article 7 are met by the public undertaking, the company of capital and the entrepreneur referred to in Article 3 of this Act, may begin to carry out activities of general interest when the competent public authority, i.e. the public authority, in accordance with the law, determines that the conditions for the performance of those activities are met in respect of, firstly, technical equipment, human skills, safety and health at work, protection and improvement of the environment and other conditions prescribed by law. So, Serbia's Airport d.o.o. They are not technically equipped, there are no equipment and personnel trained, because they have two employees at the moment and do not meet these conditions, because we will agree that this is a matter of general public interest. What do we have in this case? When we combine this relationship with public property policies and the application of the Public Property Act, some value that can be aproximately estimated at 50m euros in value of the airport with licenses, with all the permits required, is transferred if such a decision is taken at the Serbia d.o.o. So the question is, where is the public interest, and what do you think in that particular approach and approach to the government, the way the property will be transferred? Otherwise, we've talked about it, and I'd like to hear your attitude, because they're constant remarks -- well, well, you're criticizing, you don't have any suggestions. They repeat what I truly and sincerely believe, and that is DS policy, which is that the position that infrastructure, not only airport infrastructure, is because "Nikola Tesla" Airport and Nis Airport, and "Morava", is infrastructure, and operations and flights are both Air Serbia and Lou bone companies over that infrastructure, that there is no need to privatise infrastructure to an amount above 51%, that the state should always remain a majority owner. It can be introduced according to the reputation of the organisations of many European airports, but the state is the majority owner of the most part and these European laws, and local self-government and states, but with over 50% in managing that infrastructure and incentivising operations and competition over these airports. Just the result of Nis Airport shows just developed competition, cheap service and something that is a public interest, which is cheap airline tickets and travel opportunities both from Nis and Nis. So, I would ask you to tell me, as the proposer of this amendment will give me further arguments and answers to these dilemmas, and you, Mr. Minister, what is your position in this regard in public policy regarding public property and the application of the Law on Public Property, but also this part of which is why the public enterprise and property of a city is transferred to a shareholder society, and the process of transposition is not in line with the Law on Public Enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33031	The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33032	I have to look back on this last exhibit. I have to speak directly, don't be angry, Mr. Kiric, I don't know if you're a lawyer or an economist, but if you're talking about whether the airport in Nis should be under the authority of the Republic or the city of Nis, you have to come out here with the numbers, with information that is the financial capabilities of the city of Nis to invest in that airport that has to develop. The airport is not a mobile property that will be transferred from Nis to Belgrade. The thing is, it's an object that needs to be perfected and developed, in which it has to be invested. Can the city of Nis or not do so, according to its budget, according to its business? Because that's Serbia's interest. You go out with the data and prove that it's possible. If that is possible, and if with that budget and the current financial situation in which the city of Nis is located, the city of Nis can allocate as much funds as Nis needs, I will vote first to stay in Nis. And this is how you talk descriptively and describe it, it's just a waste of time and it's politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33033	Right on line, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33034	I like this way of talking. I think it can be productive to clarify, to open up all the questions. Because there are a lot of open questions here, because we don't have all the contracts that obviously affect this kind of decision. But what I do know is something about this law that we're talking about, so it's directly on this subject. Well, the representatives of the local government of the town of Nisa, whose majority I belong not to, but to your colleagues and colleagues, in a political sense, have made a decision. Your colleague, I think, is also the president of the Nish City Assembly. He runs the assembly that voted two months ago on the mid-term development plan of Nis Airport, which defined that from 2018, therefore, only two months ago, from 2018 to 2028 the airport grew, worked profitablely, worked independently and could be invested from its own resources. It's a decision by the Niš City Assembly two months ago and it's a plan document and a policy of local self-government of the town of Nis, your colleagues and colleagues, my fellow citizens. I call upon you to respect the right of local self-government to decide. You then have an absurd situation that only after fifteen days will they get this conclusion from the government and now it is necessary to make the exact opposite solution in which they will say - no, we are not capable, we voted wrongly, the Nis Airport is not qualified for such a thing. As far as investment is concerned, I think that's the same thing to say. So we need full information, too. Let the DRI enter and establish all levels of investment in Nis Airport in order to have full parameters of its value, who invested, how much the city and what the total value is and what the structure of capital and value of it is. That's why I'm talking about the Law on Public Property, the SMATSA Agency, independent of the government, has already made its decisions, and six months ago it was also adopted at the Niš City Assembly to invest in a tower in Nis 13m euros. So independent of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's information.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33035	Replica? (Vladimir Orlic: It can be amended. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33036	Just one note. Things aren't as complicated as they might seem. So the city's decision can always be compared to the information and precisely those figures that Jokic mentioned. So it's simple and it doesn't need to be there I don't know how many mathematics to determine, based on what the city has, is it something that the city has enough to cover tens of millions of investments. We talked about it here and it's nothing controversial and nothing vague. It's not under any fog, tens of millions are planning to invest the Republic in the airport. Is that something... (Goran Ćirić: Euro? )......................................................................................................... The euro. That's right. Is that something the city can do? Everyone knows what the answer is. Start with that and everything will be absolutely clear. On the subject of those accusations that someone is intently trying to bring down, collapse or whatever, as unreasonable as it may seem, that someone has deliberately raised him, has made every effort to succeed, and wants to do everything exactly the opposite, a simple logic that someone wants to do, which is today being accused of the Republic of Serbia, the easiest solution would be – don't touch anything, leave him there, and then under an excuse – there's no Nis steam, everything collapses by itself, in a hypothetical situation, of course. When we do everything the opposite of that, how much it takes to calculate or just a little honesty to conclude the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33037	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33038	I'm aware of that so I don't get a replica anyway. I want to make this clear. I think this is a civilized dialogue and I think we need to hear the arguments. You are announcing that the Republic wants to invest ten million euros, and I have already told you what is needed now from the investment at the airport. A security tower is needed and a light is needed to ensure landings on the terms of the fog. The estimate is 13m euros. These funds have been allocated from the SMATSA Agency in all plans through the already adopted plan and lending of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is the infrastructure and what needs to be invested in the airport. Even if it were necessary for the Republic to invest, and I don't think so, because it can be seen from this very analysis and full public access to all this information. Wait, we talked about IT and preparedness for subsidies. They announced the arrival of a large IT company, not to mention the name, and the promised 9.5m-euro subsidies, to a private company of 19,000 euros per IT sector employee, and many from the IT sector and clusters in Serbia responded to this because they said it would not be new employment but rather taking the best, best personnel from their companies and weakening the potential of the IT sector in Serbia. So we're ready to invest 9.5m euros in a private company, and on the other hand, the conditions for the city of Nis and any investment at that level of 9.5m euros or 10m euros are that -- transfer the property of 50m euros, because that's a prerequisite, because in a different way I don't give money. So, we should all think about it together and think about how then we encourage people at local level both in Valjevo and in Nis and in Subotica and Novi Sad, of course in Belgrade, in which way we encourage their enthusiasm to think about their future, about their perspective, think about the planning documents and make exactly these planning documents two months ago, and then you tell them after seven days -- it's no longer true, that you plan to hang a cat on the tail and make this decision on the transfer of assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33039	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33040	Interesting, ladies and gentlemen, how in an analysis of the early 20 million in two, two and a half minutes we arrived at 10. We can't do that. We need to be serious from the very beginning to the very end. There's a big difference. That difference that someone makes, as a verbal maneuver, is also high-heigh beyond what the city of Nis could, for example, endure. So, just one mistake in one sentence or a little space to make it sound more convincing, it's already going beyond anything the city could handle alone, if we're talking about being alone. The control tower, runway and terminal, we're talking about dozens of millions of euros. If we agree that this city can't, if we agree that without the Republic, what else is controversial? So what's the issue if one of the people who's been talking about these days, who are employed at the airport, around the airport, is going to be providing different kinds of services, what in their life is going to change if something formally old Republic is going to happen? He stays where he was, and all the passengers will go where they went, everyone will stay where they stayed and drive as they were transported. How will that affect the lives of people in Nis or around that city? Not at all. So it's a classic political game on something that should sound scary, and everything is just not scary. No, it's good, it's useful and it's beautiful. He wants the state to invest today, thank God, unlike those times you don't like when we mention them, but we have to mention them because they're getting a lot of warning today, thank God, in relative times, so there's a place to go. I guess that's good. Once again, when we're choosing arguments, let's just make sure that there's some logic in them and some inconclusive. We can't talk that it's bad when wages are low and that we attack when the state gives support to programs where wages are high. We can't ask for something to develop and gain, like the Nis Airport, and we can't ask it to be his top achievement to be the cheapest in the world. We have to make a decision, if we're serious. If we're not serious, then I end up with that, we're forgetting tens of millions in a two-minute replica. Thank you very much. (Goran Ciric: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33041	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Ciric. The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33042	I only have one suggestion for a fellow Eagle, or two objections to your exposure. First of all, you forgot to say that SMATSA is a state institution and that the state is investing that money through SMATS, and that's what the MP was talking about. So Serbia wants to invest 10 million, it's true. It is true that SMATSA should be built, but it is the state of Serbia. It is also true that the state of Serbia does not lead anywhere. It stays the city of Nis. With another fact, I disagree with you. It will also have these effects on the city of Nis, as the wish of the Serbian state is to hire and increase the number of passengers. This means that the citizens of Nis will get a new job at Nis Airport, that they will get a better service and that they will be richer for a modern airport that will be side by side with Belgrade airport and help make Serbia even better and more competitive and attract more foreign investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33043	Thank you. National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanislav Janosevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33044	Thank you, Chairman. The effectiveness of planning and realising plans is what is one of the basic characteristics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps Serbia is among the smaller countries in Europe in its territory. However, when you start from Palić Lake, through Vojvodina, through Fruška Gora, then you enter the Shumadi, the Sword, via Zlatibor and Kopalnik, you go south to Nis, Piroth, Vranje and reach the Church of St. Archangel Michael at the entrance to Prizren, then you realize how big and rich a country we are by tradition and culture. I am fascinated by the sacrifice of the government of the Republic of Serbia to invest parallelly in many of these undeveloped parts in Serbia. We witness daily that nothing was missing from infrastructure. As the government invests in the capital of the Republic, and in these smaller areas, the city of Zrenjanin has not forgotten villages in its municipality in the same way. After the reconstruction of the square in the center of the city that Zrenjanin certainly made beautiful, we reorientated our forces to the arrangement of the square in the village of Melenci. Congratulations on this advice from the Melenci Mesa community who took the initiative and submitted it to begin the reconstruction. And this project is worth 10 million dinars. The Melenci are usually the largest village in the Municipality of Zrenjanin with 6,000 inhabitants and what also adorns it is the healing spa of Rusanda. In line with all the above, I am submitting an amendment that will define the efficiency of the business closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33045	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33046	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the terms used in the proposed law with precise meaning are laid down in the provisions of Article 2 of the Law. The proposed amendment complements Article 2 by adding point 18, which reads: "Efficient planning with the meaning of planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the rights of displaced persons". The Republic of Serbia has been constantly working for more than two decades to solve the problems of persons who had to leave their homes during the conflict in the former Yugoslavia and actively create conditions for the quality, dignity and safe life of refugees and internally displaced persons in the Republic of Serbia and is actively helping to return to their place of origin. The government of the Republic of Serbia is committed to finding permanent solutions to this sensitive category of person, with respect for each individual's choice. The problems faced by refugees and displaced persons are manifested in all areas of life, and are most pronounced in the areas of addressing housing needs, resolving status issues, employment, exercising pension, health, social security and others. When it comes to resolving housing issues, in the past period the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the support of the international community, has provided over 15 different housing solutions that provide more than 50,000 people. The housing needs-solving projects included building housing units, providing assistance for the purchase of rural households, the allocation of construction material packages and an assembly house. Most of the projects that have been implemented so far have been designed to address the housing issue of people from collective centres and in the function of closing them. Refugees and displaced persons living in poor conditions, in private accommodation, in so-called the informal collective centres due to limited resources were less covered by the housing support programme, mainly through the programme of the assignment of construction materials and the purchase of rural households with the garden. In particular, it should be pointed out that local self-government is an important support and active participant in the process of local integration of refugees and displaced persons. Local self-government units involved in the housing project also participate in the grant of construction land without compensation, providing primary municipal infrastructure and giving up the collection of different local taxis and contributions. A large number of local self-government units continue to show motivation for participation in local integration projects. More than 137, which has adopted local action plans to improve the situation of refugees and displaced persons and has received financial support from the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration for the implementation of the activities foreseen in the plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33047	Thank you. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33048	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I submit an amendment to the bill on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 2(2), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The bill is added to point 18) which reads: "Efficient planning – planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on improving the judiciary". Serbia is working to improve the judiciary and judicial institutions, and in addition, it is saying that through a project of improvement and efficiency of the judiciary, the number of cases in our courts has been halved. The new law on enforcement and security adopted in 2015, which began to apply on 1 July 2016, helped bring a significant number of cases to an end. They managed to reduce the number of executive cases from 1.4 million to 665 thousand in 30 courts across the country by 18 months. This project is one of the important aspects of judicial reform, which is to improve the efficiency of the judicial system, which is what targets are being achieved. The system has become more efficient, and a large number of citizens have been given the opportunity to solve their cases. The state has shown its readiness to respond to the challenges and demands of citizens - respect for the rule of law, an independent and impartial and responsible judicial system. So we're building a more efficient judicial system and a better business environment for faster dispute resolution and a decisive fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33049	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Comrade Petkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33050	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(2), where point 18 is added) of the draft law on the planning system. The proposed law regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the management of public policy systems and the medium-term planning of species and the contents of the planning documents proposed, adopted and implemented in accordance with their respective competences by participants in the planning system, the mutual coherence of the planning documents, the process of establishing and implementing public policies and reporting on the implementation of the planning documents, as well as the subsequent application of the obligation to carry out an analysis of the effects on regulations and on the evaluation of the impact of those documents. We are witnessing that digitization of business is a subject more and more discussed. Everyone agrees that this is a very important item, that it brings great advantages, and in particular savings, but most of the thinking on the subject comes down to making it easier for the general public to function without entering into whether digitisation is understood enough, and what is needed to make it meaningful and efficient. In order for digitisation to be complete, i.e. comprehensive, the existence of a broader perspective is important, and the essence of a comprehensive approach is reflected through one thought – in order to better serve the needs of citizens and society as a whole, we need to advance and further accelerate the digitalisation process. We will agree that digitalisation is present in all spheres of society, both in the economy and in the economy, in industry, in education, in health, in education, and here today in Parliament and in the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will point out in particular that we will in any way support the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the process of digitising the entire society of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33051	Thank you. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Comrade Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33052	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The law on the design system which aims to further define the concepts used in this proposal. If we are talking about making public policies, we really need to approach this process systematically and by covering all the areas and paying attention to all the regions and investing evenly in them. What was necessary was for the Republic to prepare preconditions, such as political and economic stability, and the fact is that Serbia is in this process that it has really recognized and enjoyed a great reputation in the world and our results are recognised and appreciated everywhere. It is largely working to bring our legislation into line with EU liquids and the implementation of reforms that we have in our country over the past few years. It was very important to prepare the conditions for investors to recognise that our country is a favourable investment environment and that we are ready to develop our economy and create jobs. Industrial zones are being equipped in all parts of our country, but at the same time it is working to prepare a infrastructure that has indeed been abandoned and missed in many parts. The accent is precisely in undeveloped areas, in those parts of our country where for years only closed plants, closed jobs, in which buildings collapsed, in which systems were inefficient, obsolete and overcome. In particular, in Triestenik, there is really a lot going on right now by the Republic, and that's what we've been missing. Only at this point are the work of three schools worth 75 million dinars. We'll have two more by the end of the year. It's invested in kindergarten facilities, regional roads. Right now, over 25 million dinars. Just an industrial zone, there are conditions to equip it and prepare for investors. The previous government had no will or skill or ability to solve the problem of property relations at all, let alone anything else. We now want to work in agreement with our citizens on priorities all year round, to work well with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to ensure everything that was missing. It is easy to work in a pre-election campaign, borrowing the municipality for several hundred million dinars, but we want to work every year, all year long and to make a policy together with our citizens to benefit everyone and to be able to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33053	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lucky, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33054	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, I personally consider it the most important for each country, the most important element to be adequate planning. I wanted first of all to point out this truth by the proposed amendment, but I also wanted to make it important and to give meaning to a fact that adequate planning is necessary at a local level, so at the level of local self-government. The most important segments of long-term and short-term planning are local, or public policies. It is very difficult at the level of local self-government to do a long-term and short-term projection, to say, investment, over-investment in infrastructure, because in 2012 the largest number of local self-governments has found one very bad, I would say catastrophic, financial situation. Otherwise, I come from Prokuplje and I am a folk MP from Toplička County and I can say that in 2012, the debt found in the municipality of Prokuplje amounted to over two and a half billion dinars. On this kind of debt, it is very difficult to make an adequate plan, I am talking about an investment plan in infrastructure, but besides, we have managed to complete the entire home of culture and a new kindergarten and another kindergarten that was done with the help of the Ministry of Population Policy and with the help of the "Serbian Water" fully rescheduled river Toplice. About a hundred million, just last year alone, were invested in travel infrastructure despite so much dubiosis, which was mostly returned. So I think that first of all, this law is an introduction to adequate planning, which will primarily be a long-term character and an introduction to one, I would say, significantly faster growth and development from locals to the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33055	Thank you. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Miletić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33056	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I have always represented and will represent the southeast of Serbia, mountain and mountain areas, underdeveloped areas, and otherwise here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, which was selected from the SNS list. What else can I say, that I will support this law, that I have written an amendment to Article 2 where I want to contribute and accente to underdeveloped areas. I come from Srlig, a municipality that is underdeveloped, but a municipality that has the capacity to develop. A municipality in which the president of the municipality of women and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by then Prime Minister Mr. Vukic, and now Serbian President, has put a major emphasis on improving life and women and people in the country, and a special accent has been placed on women in the country. Jelena, as president of the municipality in Srlig, is an example of how the host should behave, because we planned for this year in the municipality's budget, and since 2011, the marriage community with 250,000 dinars has been stimulated, and 350,000 dinars are given for the marriage community when they are created in our villages. For every newborn child, every unemployed maternity child is given ten thousand dinars a month, and for women in the country, for children in the country 50% more. Now, during the 2018 budget, we have opened funds for children who enroll in the first grade of secondary education, 5,000 dinars in the first year, for the next 12 months each child, and for children who enroll in dual education seven and a half thousand dinars. That's how we systemically plan and want to work, to contribute to the development of our community. So the government of the Republic of Serbia and our president planned for Serbia to develop equally everywhere. I expect that in the context of our great chance, which is agriculture, in the coming period we will further allocate funds to invest in agriculture, because agriculture is what we all talk about, but a large number of us are doing it. I'm in agriculture, and I'm saying this from my heart. Once again, I call on all fellow Members to support the amendment, to support underdeveloped areas, to support our women in the country, all women, and the hosts of Serbs and all those living in Serbia, who live from their work and agriculture. Once again, I will uphold the law and invite everyone to vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33057	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Janjušević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33058	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the effectiveness of planning is the key to economic development. Franklin said – not to plan means to plan failure. Serbian Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's first associates then contributed greatly to the formation of a free industrial zone in Priboj. We didn't have an investor on those 27 acres, but we had plans and visions. In the framework of the capital investment plan of the Municipality of Pocket for infrastructure equipment of this area we had some criticism – mistrust, why, why, why, it is plain paper, it does not lead anywhere. Today, seven companies operate in that industrial zone. 250 people work there, and in the next two years, all seven companies will double the number of employees. These days, negotiations with one of the best domestic companies are to start their business in the Free Zone of Priboj and talks are under way at Serbia's Development Agency on incentives and subsidies to the domestic company. Then we go wider, Corridor 11, a new section of the Preljina-Pozega highway, an industrial zone in Chačka and a large investment that is agreed, an industrial zone in Užica. It's a product of real plans and real visions that didn't just stay on paper. At the time of those who left Serbia without 400,000 jobs in that part of Serbia from 2008 to 2012 was more likely to launch a volcano somewhere than some new company and some new production plant or asphalt base for a new section of the highway. The policy of this government is that the plan goes into drawer only after the realization, unlike some previous policies where the plans immediately ended in drawers, where Serbia should have ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33059	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Nikolic Pavlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33060	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that in Article 2(1). The bill adds item 18, which is – the effectiveness of planning – planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving medical institutions. I believe that this amendment further defines the basic concepts of this bill. The accelerated transition process that our country is going through on its way to the EU has proved to be a kind of test for each institution, including health care, which must prove that it is capable and professional enough to meet high-level standards that involve day-to-day validation and quality control. The Special Goals of the Public Health Institute of Pomoravlje in gurija in the coming period refer to several areas. The economic objectives include ensuring the average real growth of the total income from 3% to 5% per year, the growth of earnings corresponding to income, the maintenance of market earnings in the total income of the Institute at 35% to 45%, the increase in the participation of budget funds in the total income of the Institute, so that they are not less than 55% to 65% in the next period. Investment objectives include preserving the state of infrastructure facilities and installations, improving working conditions, with full protection at work, preserving existing and obtaining new equipment for laboratory work, sampling and transportation of samples, maintenance and restoration of the rolling stock of the institution. The staff and professional objectives include the development and implementation of education, education and professional training of workers, the development of a plan of experts of the Institute at consultations at expert meetings, symposiums and others, i.e. an annual plan. The organisational objectives include the promotion of a new organisation of the institution, the basis of which are centres, the establishment of multi-sectoral and multi-disciplinary work at the level of the centre and institutions in general, with respect for the general hierarchical organisation structure. The objectives for the realization of jobs and tasks include follow-up, monitoring, 2 registration, analysis of the health status of the inhabitants of the Pomorava district, development of risk management elements and threats to public health, promotion of health, development of partnership relations with the local community in the area of protection and improvement of public health. Realising the conditions for the Institute to take over the central role of co-ordinators and promoters of public health activities at the level of the Pomorava County. Continuing the development and rounding of market transactions in order to ensure stable out-of-budget sources of funding. The funds on the market are being implemented within the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, the Centre for Hygiene, Human Ecology and Ecotoxicology, the control of the health regularity of foods and items of general use, the quality of drinking water, the production of evaluations of analysis and studies in the field of environmental protection, the testing of waste water, testing of ambient and emission air, the activity of mobile units in emergency situations and other, the clinical microbiology centre and to a lesser extent of other centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33061	National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lucic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33062	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers with fellow Members, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in Article 2(1), I have proposed adding point 18 to the effectiveness of the planning. Efficiency is the relationship between the size of the result per unit of investment, and concerns the size of the results this time and the investment of the imput. The planning represents, as a process, a management function setting out the objectives of the ongoing business and development of the organisation, then predicting and defining future tasks, as well as the tasks in which these tasks are to be carried out, and the objectives are to be achieved. The aim of effective planning is to make investment as successful as possible and to achieve the expected result with as little investment as possible. It provides the basis for other management activities, organization and management and control. By proper organisation, management and control of investments, or their proper positioning, we get results that suit real needs. If in the area of Bajina Basta, it is the local self-government from which I come, correctly position all destinations suitable for the construction of tourist infrastructure and if properly foresee their merger with the relevant road infrastructure, so that potential visitors are attracted to each destination, both by their service and beauty and infrastructure availability. Only then can it be possible to enable the attractive arrival of investors from all over the world to invest in the construction of tourist infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33063	Thank you. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33064	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that I propose to be in Article 2. The proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system adds item 18 -- the effectiveness of planning, planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on the development of the school system. Due to the importance of effective planning of the school system, the system of educational institutions and education, as an important segment of all social activities, and thus Serbia's development, it is important to plan the school system effectively and adapt the education system to monitor the economy. This is exactly the example of effective planning of the school system, i.e. Education, where education is accompanied by the economy, is the municipality of Stara Pazova, which adapts to the economic development of the future city and recognises economic needs. Accordingly, schools of profiles that are needed and sought on the market. The Municipality of Stara Pazova is a municipality with a large number of domestic and foreign investors, developed economy, built infrastructure, developed areas of health and education, where new profiles need to be educated, leading to a reduction in unemployment and an increase in the standard of living of our citizens, which is what we all strive to do. Old Paz deserves all parameters to finally get the status of the city, which the municipality's management has already requested from the competent ministry and provided the government of the Republic of Serbia with all necessary documentation. It is up to us, distinguished, elected representatives of the people, to do everything possible to make the economy and education a function of developing municipalities, cities and regions, with one single goal, and that is Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33065	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33066	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The amendment to Article 2 of the Law refers to the effectiveness of planning and everything related to sustainable development. Unlike all governments, from 2000 to 2012, which were only planned to close factories and systematically fire workers and leave them on the street, this government, the President of the Republic and this assembly majority are working on the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. If that were the case, it tells us exactly the visit that took place today and yesterday, that a delegation of 100 businessmen from a German province came to Serbia to talk to our businessmen, to discuss investing in the future, in production plants in Serbia. If that were the case, it also speaks an example of my city of kings, where nothing has been opened for decades. Once upon a time, they opened a bathroom at a train station. I remember that very well. The President of the Republic has made it possible, above all, to open a factory called Tai Group in this year, Turkey and to start work somewhere in September to build the largest "Leonie" factory, not only in Serbia, but in the Western Balkans. What it says again is that we are working on sustainable development, thinking about the future, not today, but today for tomorrow, is the detail that we found, or that domestic investors bought part of the former giant Magnochroma, and that it is already working and that it will work and that the interested investor from abroad buys the second part, that is, the largest part of the Magnogrom factory ie. Fire-stamp factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33067	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33068	Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 2(2), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: I propose that point 18 be added to the bill, which reads: "Efficulty of Planning – Planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving the private sector". This amendment defines the concept that will lay the foundations for future development of private entrepreneurship. As we all know, we live in the 21st century where the standards of technological development and the establishment of clear principles and patterns of work are essential, is a time of digitisation, the improvement of technological approach to production processes and more efficient planning, the management of resources in order to improve economic results. This reform process is necessary in the ongoing market race and only the most modern methods can achieve what we are seeking, which is the prosperity of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Careful planning will continue the trend of attracting foreign investors, motivate domestic businesses to keep new investments and quality labour in Serbia. As a man selected on the SNS list as a committee member of the local Parliament of the Municipality of Arangelovac, I consider it a personal duty to also draw attention to the importance of the topic we are talking about and to indicate that there are very good examples in the practice of connecting planning with the desired goals. The municipality of Arangelovac has made a number of good measures that have helped better co-operate with local businesses and have ultimately achieved an effect of reducing unemployment, increasing workers' salaries, and also increasing the traffic and profits of private entities. In the following amendments, I will say more about examples of good co-operation between local authorities and private companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33069	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Babic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33070	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 2(1). The bill is added to point 18) which reads: "Efficient planning – planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the development of medical centres". This amendment defines the basic concepts of the bill. In the context of planning efficiency today, I'm going to talk about working medicine. Medical work is a branch of medicine that brings fresh money daily, with minimal costs. Some 100,000 dinars of Somboric medicine bring in a daily case of home health. The aim of the development, adoption and adoption of the work strategy is to enable specific health care of the working population. The conservation and improvement of the health of the working-active population is achieved through the implementation of an adequate concept of the work of medicine and the bodies of the work of medicine and the organisation of services that provide the highest possible level of health protection at work for all workers. The basic strategy of the medical work service is to improve its content and its activities. The activities and objectives of the medical work service will relate to all aspects of health, namely: primary prevention of work-related injuries, occupational diseases and diseases, protection of health of every employee and early detection of diseases that threaten both the working ability and quality of life, then promotion of health at the workplace, ensuring availability, i.e. The principle of medical work for all employees, especially vulnerabilities, high-risk sectors and for employees of small and medium-sized enterprises, agriculture, which have so far been little covered, and it is necessary to include specialists in the medical work teams to draw up and supplement the act on the assessment of health risks at work. In order to achieve the planned objectives of the Department of Medicine, it is necessary to provide the following activities: 1) preliminary reviews for all jobs with a specific focus on higher risk jobs, 2) periodic periodic checks on workers working in jobs with an increased health risk, 3) extraordinary periodic checks on changes in health conditions affecting job safety, 4) targeted checks relate to specific adverse reactions and 5) systematic checks on all employees, regardless of the workplace. There is also a need to promote health above all at work, by getting to know workers with professional disabilities, their health risks and the possibility of removing them from the aspect of the use of personal protective equipment and the implementation of basic hygiene principles at work. The promotion of health should refer to prevention of non-infectious diseases by promoting healthy nutrition and physical activity among workers and mental health at work, as well as a regular tour of businesses for insight into working conditions and working environments, then, organising training courses in providing first aid, continuous education of medical staff in order to respond to the requirements imposed by new technologies and old models that are not used today, continued procurement of new equipment requires the activities of medical work services and integration into a single information system. I have to say that medical specialists in Sombor are not set up, which is one of the problems. Certainly, the goal of the service of medicine is to engage in the public health system. In order for all of these activities to be available to workers, the labour medicine service must be indirect between the employer and the worker, i.e. full co-operation with the employer must be achieved by concluding contracts for the provision of medical work services. In addition to co-operation with the employer in order to control the implementation of safety and safety at work, cooperation with labour inspection is also necessary. The care for the health of workers must not be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the employer, but also the state through its institutions must bear part of the responsibility. The protection of workers' health must be equally accessible to everyone and the country must play the greatest role. In addition to these activities, the aim of the medical work service is to carry out medical examinations in accordance with doctrinal views and legislative regulations for the issue of medical assurances for various needs, such as: medical assurances on the medical ability to manage motor vehicles, for enrolment in high school and college, for stay in a home, for the adoption of a child, for custody, foster care, for staying in the country, and others. In voting day, the SNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33071	Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33073	Dear Chairman, Minister Djordjevic, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would like to propose an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia that shows clearly how important it is thanks to the principles of efficiency and responsibility for ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia in terms of economic growth. The reform of the state administration and its rationality and efficiency create a condition for overall economic and economic development. The state administration must be supporting citizens and economic operators, not balance and brake development. For such a thing, we need a professional administration made up of professional and responsible officials. Thanks to the set of laws, something like that will be possible. The continuation of this policy is this law, which in a long-term and realistic way sets state goals primarily in order to achieve the economic values outlined necessary for the better life of all our citizens. How well-organized and efficient state administration pays itself to citizens can be seen in the case of my municipality of Rakovica. By choosing wisely their municipal and city authorities, citizens chose to pave the streets instead of an empty municipal register, they chose renewed schools instead of fixed tenders, building a water network instead of empty promises. While others promised the current power in the Rakovica municipality to build. I would also say this about the bill, with this amendment, I have highlighted the effectiveness of the planning that the legislator himself has instilled in me in the provisions of the law, so that the state administration is the basis for the entire economy and society. I would ask my fellow Members to consider my amendment and to support the adoption of an improved text of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33074	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Filipović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33075	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, you can make up for everything in life except lost time. The Serbian Progressive Party since 2012 has been trying to make up for everything that has been missed, everything that has been done badly in some previous period, to correct all the mistakes that have been made and in many ways we have succeeded. First, through financial stabilisation, through the many savings we've made, then we've managed to hire people, open up numerous factories. And behind all this is what I was talking about yesterday, and that's the plan, the plan, the vision that we know what we want, where we want, and how we want our society to look in the next period. That is why I have submitted this amendment in order to help, improve and support the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. The plan and the idea of what the SNS has and that's what you can see and I'll give it to the case of the city of Belgrade that I live in. When we came to power in Belgrade, we found an empty register, we found a ruined city, ruined everything. Everything was empty and empty. We had a chance to move on to the way the DS was going, the way the current opposition was going. We have defined ourselves as a different path, for a different idea, and to try to do something in the city of Belgrade. Then we said, let's see what municipalities we need to do, ask our citizens, talk to them. On the basis of talks with citizens, in communication with SNS citizens and its leaders have made a plan where and how the city of Belgrade should develop in the coming period, and it was assessed by citizens in the elections on March 4th when they gave huge support to the SNS list -- because we love Belgrade, in the Belgrade elections. This is an example of how we worked in the city of Belgrade in those four years, a plan where we invest, when and why. Every year in one municipality, we solve a big problem. If we solve and continue to solve one problem in all Serbia every year, I think this society will be far richer and happier than it was between 2000 and 2012, and that we will all be able to be much more content in the future together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33076	Thank you. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33077	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the bill on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to health development. In order for citizens to be able to use health services and get to health facilities and roads quickly, they should be adequate and high-quality. I thank the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Mihajlovic for the promised fast traffic from Sapac to Loznica to Republika Srpska, which will mean a great deal for that part of Western Serbia and for the start of the reconstruction of the Shabac-Loznica-Brasin railway line, up to Republika Srpska. This will create conditions for a faster and easier way, and therefore investors will come to that part of our Republic sooner. The previous government invested huge funds to build road infrastructure in the territory of the town of Loznica, then Loznica-Valjevo, Loznica-Mali Zvornik-Ljubovija. Many bridges were reconstructed in the catastrophic floods in 2014 began from the bridge on the Adriatic coast in Draginjac, and eight bridges in the municipality of Krupanj. Through the Public Investment Management Office in Krupanj municipality, about 150 million dinars were invested from the recovery of water lines, rinks, construction of 29 residential buildings, cash compensation for destroyed buildings worth 34,894,000 dinars, cash aid for damaged buildings worth 133,2 million dinars, the Krupanj-LJubovija road has been paved for 17,8 km. Through the Public Investment Management Office, the polluting of the Kostajnica River, the Korenite River and the Adriatic River was remedied as a result of the femur spill from the Rudnik Stolica dump worth 220 million dinars. The hospitals in the White Church and Mojkovic were renovated, the Krupanj House of Health, worth 17.382,000 dinars. The former "Krupanjka" plant has opened a production plant "Ginsi", employs 150 workers, has been taken care of by hundreds of families. All this has happened thanks to the engagement of our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who visited Krupanj more than ten times after the catastrophic floods and literally revived this municipality that was in total atrocity. Due to a more favourable economic climate, population drains have been reduced, and the number of unemployed is less than 2,000. Last year, for the first time in the municipality of Krupanj, 25% more babies were born than the previous year.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33078	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Sušec.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33079	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The effectiveness of planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific view to improving the water economy is of paramount importance, especially when it comes to agriculture. For over 30 years, irrigation systems have not been built in Serbia. In order to develop, improvements in agricultural production, irrigation systems are of paramount importance. For this reason, the Ministry of Agriculture, headed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has made the solution to this decades-old problem extremely responsible. Today, 14 irrigation systems are being built in the Republic of Serbia, and 15 other projects are being prepared to be implemented by the end of 2018. The ministry of agriculture in the government of the Republic of Serbia plans to reach 300,000 orcs in a cycle of six to seven years, or 400,000 hectares of working ornaments under a irrigation system, which is indeed commendable. I can't, not to mention when it comes to the canal irrigation network, I can't help but mention the town of Panchevo, which in 2012 had a derelict and buried sewer disposal network. The responsible approach of the town of Pancheva and the City Secretariat for Agriculture in collaboration with the Water business of Tamiš-Dunav is today taking place on the territory of the city of Pancheva, intensively maintaining over 500km of sewerage network with potential potential for use and irrigation, which largely gives agricultural producers in the territory of the town of Pancheva the opportunity to triple their agricultural products with the purchase of equipment in intensive storage facilities by the Government of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture. Agriculture is the biggest potential in the Republic of Serbia. For example, for the success of Croatia's profits in tourism during a tourist season, Serbia would have to achieve in agricultural production. With the current government of the Republic of Serbia, there is no doubt that this example will not be realised in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33080	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33081	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with the Associates. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia to improve the text of the law itself. How to run local self-government and how to plan the household, we can see and learn from the local self-government of the town of Leskovec. The mayor of Leskovci Goran Cvetanovic recognized the fact that modern travel infrastructure in the city and villages, is a prerequisite for general prosperity and overall development. When we took responsibility in the town of Leskovac in 2012, we found streets that were eager to rebuild. The organisation of most of the city's and rural roads hasn't been done in decades. In a period of five years, more than 60 cars were built and reconstructed in the city and the surrounding area. The length of them is more than 20,000 meters, and the value of more than half a billion dinars. Significant attention is also given to pedestrian surfaces, construction and rehabilitation of sidewalks is arranged on an area of 17,000 square meters, for which 53 million dinars have been allocated. It is good planning, respected colleagues and true support for the adoption of such and similar laws. Of course, the town of Leskovac invests in a better quality of life. More than fivem euros have been invested in the reconstruction of the water network, as well as the construction of the northern water arm, in the town of Leskovac. A new water network of 32km has been built, setting aside 96 million dinars. A sewerage network built in the length of 8,500 meters and a total of 37.3 million dinars. Significant investments have also been made by the JKP Toplan, which has invested over 2m euros in the modernisation of the heating system in recent years. A new gas boiler room has been built, heat treatment of heat substations has been reconstructed, as well as the installation of a combustion filter. Also, all heat consumption is allowed to be invoiced by the consumption of heat substations, by installing reliable measuring equipment. It replaced 46 heat substations, new automatic substations, in facilities, collective housing connected to the system, forming the core of the future dispatch system. Meanwhile, the heat consumption has been increased by 500 housing units, apartments and about 20,000 square metres of business space. The public utility of Toplan provides regular annual subsidies to certain endangered social categories, remote heating users. Finally, it is important to mention that both the water pipeline and Toplana in Leskovac, from former losers, have become successful public enterprises and further investment can be expected to improve quality, water supply and heating of Leskovec citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33082	National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33083	Dear Chairman, ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my amendment is focused on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with me pointing to the importance of units of local self-government, this law will be comprehensive in the sense that it does not only apply to the system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the AP and units of local self-government. In Nis, as one of the better projects, I would like to highlight the shift of the city's green market from the current location, i.e. next to the fortress, to a new location, an open market centre, which is why changes and additions of the city's plans of the Palilula municipality have just been made. With this plan, the city will free the surroundings of the fortress from montage facilities, but also act in accordance with the law on the protection of monuments of culture. The fortress in Nis is the largest in this part of the Balkans and certainly one of the most attractive buildings in this city. On the other hand, Nis will thus create conditions for the realisation of large investments and major projects that will take place with the help of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and some of these projects have already been approved. At the end of March of this year, representatives of the Niš City Assembly adopted a proposal for other partial changes and additions to the general urban plan, and they include the transfer of the city bus station Nis Expressa, the quantum markets, the construction of another shopping centre, also a multi-functional concert hall and a commercial establishment at the elementary school "Sveti Sava". Therefore, the adoption of this law will allow a systemised, harmonised system at all levels, a realistic and efficient plan system in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33084	National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. My colleague Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33085	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The law on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia, which would further define the concepts of this law, as regards the addition of point 18 relating to the effectiveness of planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. As a doctor, I would refer to the health system. Poorly-led policy, above all, the collapse of a health system that lasted for decades, and above all, I would say that the Dossmanli government collapsed the health system of the Republic of Serbia and brought Serbian health to the lowest branches, has affected the face of many problems. I would point out that poorly-led personnel policy and a poorly-led personnel plan, it led Serbian healthcare, to face the problem of the lack of doctors of certain specialities, so that the government of the Republic of Serbia led by then Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, had to bring amendments and additions to the laws that existed, but they were very bad, to prevent the problem of losing an anesthesiologist, without a pediatrician, without a pathologist, but fortunately we managed to make sure that our young doctors went to specialisation within a short period of time. What I would point out is that by planning well in the field of health, more specifically in the area of primary health care, we have managed to solve the problem in local self-government, the problem relating to the vaccination of children, and this time I would like to commend the cruise home of health, where the coverage of children who have succumbed to vaccination is even over 90%. We know that the problem with vaccinations and, among other things, because of the poorly-led policy of staff from G17 plus, when we had a problem with poor procurement of vaccinations, so our citizens, unfortunately, believed all of the stories of the antivaccinal lobby and the non-vaccination of children, well, there were some diseases that should have been eradicated very much. The policy led by our government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is a policy of progress and we return the country to that place that our health care should be, of course, all other branches. That is why we are getting our citizens' support and we will continue to work responsibly, as we have done so far, because SNS policy is a responsible policy that delivers results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33086	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of David's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33087	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the main reasons for the adoption of this law is to establish an effective system of planning at the republican level, the level of autonomous provinces, as well as at the level of units of local self-government, which contributes to the overall development of our country, which creates conditions for improving and increasing co-operation with countries in the region. I come from the Lazarec municipality, which is only one of many where labour efficiency and co-operation can be seen between all levels of government since the SNS, led by our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, came into power. The responsible policy we have led over the past three years in Lazarevec has done a lot. I will only list some projects that have been implemented, which have contributed significantly to the development of my municipality. Over the past three and a half years, more than 80km of roads and streets have been constructed and reconstructed in the territory of the Lazarec municipality. It has been reconstructed and newly built over 60km of water network and about 10km of sewerage network. In Lazarevec, the first non-patient maternity home in Belgrade's territory has been built over the past 40 years. The renovation of the health home "Dr. Djordje Kovacevic" is also under way for the first time since construction, where special attention is paid to increasing energy efficiency. Five ambulances were renovated in the territory of the Lazarec municipality. After 35 years, the kindergarten "Children's Empire" was reconstructed as another 10 school and preschool institutions. After more than 15 years, since Beko factory went bankrupt, Turkey's Birlešik textile company has bought a factory, and now it is under way to expand the plant's drive, allowing a total of 1,200 jobs, mainly for women's workforce. A modern shopping mall that employs 250 of our citizens is open. Special attention is also given to the development of agriculture, which was completely neglected in the period before the SNS came to power. An agricultural office has been opened where interested agricultural producers can inform about all the currents in this area. As you could hear, and anyone who comes to Lazarec can see, for SNS, there is no division of citizens in the first and second order, as before. We are now all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There are no priorities to ensure that personal interests are realised, but is invested in every municipality in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33088	Thank you. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Firenjanović's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33089	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, planning in the public administration is necessary so that public policies and regulations can be well designed and formulated. That is why I have proposed an amendment that reads: "Efficulty of Planning, that is, Planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on financial stability". The main objective of real development plans and their effective implementation is to ensure continued economic growth and social progress based on clear development policies. The development of the modern financial market is conditioned by innovation and competition processes leading to the continued creation of new financial instruments and the expansion of the market. This is the policy direction of our government and this is the policy that the government has gained the trust of foreign investors. Just over the past month, President Vukic has set up a cornerstone and opened several factories. The German industrial complex "Mint Park" came to Kragujevac, which will produce parts for wagons and trams. Germany already employs over 44,000 workers in Serbia, and investments in the Serbian economy have reached about two billion euros. For Serbia, the most important foreign trade partner is both in the trade of goods and in the exchange of services, and the total trade of goods between Serbia and Germany last year amounted to almost 4.4 billion euros. The leading European producer of cables and cable systems for automotive and other industries is "Leoni". He opened in Nis the third factory in Serbia. The value of the investment is 22m euros, and the factory will employ 2,200 people. A new Bizlink factory production plant, which produces cables for small home appliances, has been opened in Prokuplje, in which it will receive around 450 employees, in addition to 350 workers. A cornerstone for the plant "Esex Jurop" in Zrenjanin, which will produce enamelled copper wires, with an investment of 30.4m euros, and the job will receive more than 150 people. All these and future investments are indicators that the Serbian government, led by President Vukic, has created a suitable investment ground, thus ensuring financial stability and a positive economic climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33090	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33091	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, fellow MPs, the Law on the Planning System, this very important and comprehensive law, wants to achieve the following: preventing the existence of several parallel production processes, then making it easier to set priorities in the work of the authorities of the state administration, preventing the inefficiency of impact measurement at all levels and a number of problems and concerns. The safest and most precise way to apply it is through the law, not through regulations or through recommendations, because we are in a hurry. We're in a hurry to make progress and make up for the time when it was in charge of pensions or when the best companies were being sold out. That is why I have submitted the amendment to Article 2. The draft law, which adds point 18), reads: "Efficient planning – planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to economic indicators". As a graduate economist and someone who has 27 years of working experience in various economic areas, I am fully aware of the importance of the economy. Here we are not just talking about the height of the salary or the consumer basket, but much broader, security, progress and stability of the country, the return of the country's reputation in the world, that globalisation has affected the movement of people, goods and services and a better exchange of information. Our country wants to step up with the world and it's on its way. It achieved stability of economic parameters and the NBS forecasts an acceleration of GDP growth in 2018 and 2019 by around 3.5%. It's applied everywhere, in the city and the village, only if we want to be realistic. Every youth citizen since the arrival of the provisional body in 2015 sees progress further. Public enterprises were cured, 40km of roads were paved, 13,660 new sewerage networks, more than 8,000 metres of new water network. Lasted in Mladenov, she received 15 new buses, which is conditions for 20,000 people to travel to work daily, to school, to studies in Belgrade very important. Last August, the last loan war, which the previous government raised at threem euros and twice extended the grace period so that they would not return during their term of office, but waited for the SNS, so that any progress was made. Through agricultural subsidies, citizens of Mladenvec received 34.5 million dinars. The “Sveti Sava” elementary school in Mladenovac has been completely renovated and complete collapse due to underground waters has threatened. Works at the City Museum have been under way since 2009. So much for how much the previous government took care of culture. I've listed only a fraction of the realistic economic recovery as much as it could have cost at a limited time for today's exposure. Because of the importance of economic indicators of our country's growth and stability, I have submitted this amendment. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33092	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Matić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33093	Thank you. My amendment to Article 2. The law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia primarily aims to improve the development of municipalities and cities. The aim of each law, especially this one, which regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia to regulate certain areas, to set the rules, that in this case, in particular, the vision of future development is regulated through the planning documents. I'll go through one more example, live example, say where this law will have good effects. I will take an example of the construction of the highway through central Serbia, Belgrade, Obrenovac, Ub, LJig, Gornji Milanovac, Cačak, etc. Certainly, through cities and municipalities in central Serbia, where the highway passes, it is very important for their development, for the development of their economy, as well as for Serbia in general, but now it comes to the importance of what it means for municipalities located close to the highway in construction, which does not pass the highway. The planning documents will provide for the time and dynamics of the construction of access roads that will connect those places to the highway and allow for these municipalities and these cities to have a perspective and benefit from that highway, i.e. total economic development. For example, these are the municipalities of Koceljeva, Mininica, the town of Valjevo, for example, Koceljeva should have a good connection with the future highway, which should be approximately at the level of the magistrateal road, while the town of Valjevo should have access to traffic on the highway level of half the highway, because the town of Valjevo deserves such a thing. Here you can see what this law allows and enables you to do through planning, through planning documents, and time and finance and dynamics, and when we have a plan and we know it will be, I think it gives us the opportunity to develop these environments as best as possible in this Serbia, headed by this Government and President Vukic. So these municipalities, as an example, will have one full development, a good development, and thus the Republic of Serbia will develop rapidly and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33094	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33095	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Stefanovic and his associates, I am pleased that you are again among us in this high house, which you have in your time chaired for the satisfaction of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of the MPs, not only the MPs of the ruling coalition but also the opposition MPs, but also that is not what I think but also the opposition MPs think. Dear Vice President, on the agenda is planning, planning documents, they reflect on education and education, especially on our teachers who plan daily. That's what they're called. daily preparations, then weekly planning, then monthly planning, half-yearly and yearly. Efficient planning, ladies and gentlemen, in education and education implies and planning in relation to our students to moral values and state property, that Gjorge Vukadinovic, called "Vlah", while he was a student, raised for a proper relationship with state property, would not kidnap millions from the state lottery, I really call on him to say whether he took that money or not, that former regime MPs were raised as students for proper relations with the law and legality, would not recognise The Hague tribunal, because he was founded by an illegal body, they know that well. So if it was founded by an illegal authority, all the decisions it makes are void and today we're full of ears about how legal it is. It is the largest legal civilizational political freak, and its chairman is the first and last Theodore Meron, one of the greatest villains with Clinton and Albert in the 21st century. If Zoran Zivkovic were called "a farmer in the attempt", Sasa Jankovic called "prangia", Dragan Sutanovac called "grab money", Sasa Radulovic called "the king of bankruptcy", Vuk Jeremic called "the wolf of progeny", Bosko Obradovic called "lupeti", Boris Tadic called "lipicaner", would not have had a proper relationship with the truth, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, respected Serbian citizens for brutal beating Mark Đuric and his associates by the Cypriot thugs would have declared guilty even though the Alliance's Secretary-General for the future of Kosovo, Rahim Pecolli, said he was guilty of Hashim Thaci, who prepared it in advance. That is why the esteemed Vice President is important to this amendment, which says that planning also applies to education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33096	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33097	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, planning is very important in agriculture. The former regime's party didn't understand, and that's why they usually had a minister against agriculture, not a minister of agriculture. Namely, I believe that plant production is not enough and that we must, in order to increase GDP from agriculture and food industry, that we must have developed livestock production. Our slaughterhouses work at 50% capacity. Export chances, especially in cattle, exports of beef and lamb meat and sheep are very certain. So we have to feed our cattle, instead of exporting our corn for 800 million, we have to load cattle and thus earn through that two billion euros instead of 800 million euros, and by processing the slaughterhouses, that amount reaches four billion and thus raise agricultural food production with five billion euros to 10 billion. Also, I think what the party of the former regime forgot to do, it's the PIO insurance of farmers, which we led to only one farmer being provided, but the remaining debts. I think that due to the smooth functioning, especially of small agricultural holdings, we should allow farmers to regulate it, and therefore I call on the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, to continue to work hard, but one chance the farmers missed, to let them through one more chance, even if their debts to the PIO are settled properly, let's say by selling their debts and interest by 10% of its value, because it is a 200 billion-euro debt, it's non-refundable, and only 10% of our payments would be increased by 20 billion probably by their agricultural budget. Thus, through increased stimulation and subsidies, their agricultural production increased further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33098	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jancic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33099	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable MPs, the plan system of the Republic of Serbia is characterized by considerable inefficiency and intransparency. With the aim of removing these shortcomings, I suggested further defining the basic concepts of the amendment's proposal: "Article 2(1) adds point 18" - the effectiveness of planning, planning, in order to develop the Republic of Serbia in general, with a specific reference to improving the work of local self-government." There are a number of reasons why this law should be passed. It is essential that it covers all key aspects of social and economic and development policy, regional and spatial development, imposes a commitment to coordinated planning and mutual harmonisation of the planning documents of participants in the planning system. In the period after the five-octobarian bhager revolution until 2012, the only planned document that the former regime has realised were projects to devastate Serbia, rob privatisation and rob local self-government budgets. One example of robbery is the uptake of agricultural land in state property by local powers, all with the consent of the former presidents of the municipality, with not small fees, of course, not for the budgets of municipalities, provinces, states, but for them and their pockets. In mid-2017, construction began for farmers of northern Banat, the most important facility – the regional system of the irrigation channel network, with a pump station on the Tisa River near the Serb Krstura. The canal network opens up the possibility of irrigating a surface of 4,800 hectares of agricultural land in the catastrian municipalities of Novi Knezevic, Choki and Kikindi. It is precisely this project that is an example of co-ordinated planning and harmonisation of the planning documents of several local self-government companies, "Vode Vojvodina" and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, now president of Serbia, has created an ever-increasing precondition for faster development, for a better standard of citizens, has built solid foundations on which a society of equal opportunities and opportunities can now be built for each individual on whom the Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandra Vukic, will certainly build a modern, developed and organised country so necessary for the peaceful and better future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33100	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33101	I will talk about a problem that causes the dissatisfaction of tens of thousands of Republika Srpska's military and police. Namely, it is a category of Serbian citizens, as well as exiled Serbs living around the world, who have not been recognised as a military internship for the period since the founding of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, on 27 April 1992, until 1995, when war conflicts in the territory of today's Croatia ended. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Social and Combat Affairs adopted the Bill on the Rights of Fighters, War Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters at the end of 2014, which, unfortunately, does not provide for the recognition of a military internship for the Krajina fighters. Such a decision by the working group at the time was not taken with sympathies with the exiled Serbs, as they feel it is not right to be the only category of fighters in the former Yugoslavia who have not been recognised as a military internship during the wartime. I recall that even Croatia, with its scandalous law on defenders, in which it speaks officially about the aggression of Serbia, the Serbian people and the former JNA in Croatia, has recognised full rights to members of the Croatian Defence Council from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Krajina fighters believe they are discriminated over the fact and expect that Minister Djordjevic, who announced in January this year the adoption of a new law on the rights of fighters, wartime invalids and families of fallen fighters, will take this remark seriously, this suggestion, and that a new law, which I hope will be adopted within a reasonable period of time, will correct this injustice. The injustice also applies because the dual-term wartime internship is recognised not only by Serbian fighters, but even by landscape officers, brigade commanders, the Republika Srpska Army Corps, and not recognised by fighters. The fighters ask the question – and with whom did the commanders of the brigade and the Corps command you, when they were recognised as a double-term war effort for the entire period of war and not recognised by the Krajina fighters? So, another appeal to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, socio-fighting issues that, in the coming period, through dialogue, there is a solution and that the new law on the rights of fighters, wartime disableds and families of fallen fighters also enters this provision and that there are more than 50,000 of them, recognising a dual-term wartime internship for the period 1992-1995. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33102	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Tarbuk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33103	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I would like to propose an amendment to the draft law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia and to show clearly how important it is to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia in the area of efficiency and local self-government. The establishment of a rationally efficient local self-government creates a condition for the overall development of the state. The state is not only built from the top, or from the republican authorities, but from the local level. However, it is necessary that the roof law, therefore, be set up on the principles of rationality and efficiency. The proposed planning system takes this into account, so, when it comes to planning, it exclusively included principles of rational use of resources, mandatory analysis and adequate consultations, as well as responsibilities and transparency, which establishes a highly efficient planning system. At the heart of effective planning is a professional, responsible state administration, local self-government, and it is made by professional and responsible officials. These days, one of the most interesting news from the economy is that the other is the best currency in the world in the past year. The Serbian dinar is the second currency in the world with the best perfomans in the past 12 months, which has contributed to the fact that last month it has reached its highest value for the euro in the last three years. I must express great satisfaction that, as a man and citizen of this country, I have welcomed this news from the recognised Blumering agency in America, and I can conclude that this government and the previous government have done their work, and I ask my fellow MPs to support this law in the day of voting, and if they have the strength and time, and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33104	Thank you. The People's MP Maja Macužic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Machužić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33105	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with associates, I have submitted this amendment in order to point out the effectiveness of planning from the aspect of international co-operation, as well as to stress the importance of the planning process for international co-operation and the overall reform of our society. This law will allow the preparation of strategic and programming documents for funding from international funds, as well as for planning, preparation, implementation and monitoring of projects financed from international development assistance. As I have already said, this very important law proposed by the government will not only affect the economy, but also lead to the improvement of Serbia's international position, in addition to a number of other government activities, but also the previous government headed by Alexander Vukic. The adoption of this law will be a good driving mechanism, among other things, and because of international funds whose use helps us to establish the highest standards in all areas, by the reputation of the most developed countries of all. It is very important that this law will regulate a system of planning that will be comparable to the international planning system and thus bring Serbia closer to the world. Although the government did not accept this amendment, I would take this opportunity to praise not only this law, which is on the agenda today, but also other laws to be discussed in the coming period, which are improving Serbia's economic system and international position. The government of the Republic of Serbia has full support for the citizens of the Kings, where I come from, but also for the citizens of Serbia to further develop Serbia's international position and Serbia's smooth development. I call on fellow Members to support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33106	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Zeleg, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33107	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, to Article 2. I have submitted an amendment to add item 18 after point 17), which is to introduce efficiency in planning with an impact on the development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to state administration. The bill should, through its application, allow transparency, efficiency and efficiency in implementing public policies and their governance, as well as the impact on the overall economic progress of all actors in implementing public policies and programmes, as well as the Republic of Serbia as a whole. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the SNS, has found that a system of state administration needs a law linking state administration, AP and local self-government with the aim of co-ordinated public policy planning by competent document makers and that planning is done with respect to the interests of all participants in the realisation. The Institute of Public Policy Implementation Control has also been established through the control of the development and implementation of medium-term plans, as well as the mandatory submission of the report on the implemented public policy documents by the bringers. There is one example to which this law would most apply, and also to see the full effects of its application. A project that is the pride of the city of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia, which is the Project "Belgrade on Water". The project, due to President Vukic's vision, was attended by all levels of government of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, or the city of Belgrade and the city's municipalities in parts of their responsibilities. This project gave rise to the need to adopt the Law on the Plane System, integrated planning, co-ordinated implementation of plans and policies. The project today changes the image of Belgrade and raises it to a higher level. Pushing forward the entire country's economy from a ruined and abandoned part of the city and river dump, an urban environment is being created that will be the pride of all those involved in its construction, as well as of all citizens of Belgrade. It is precisely because projects of this importance for the development of the Republic of Serbia and lower levels of government that should support this law and any changes that improve its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33108	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Djokić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33109	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, we are witnessing that until today, public policy documents, I mean strategies and action plans and programmes, have rarely changed, or have been corrected, which should, as a rule, be done after the expiry of the deadline within which the initial effects of them can be considered. In practice, until today, the provisions of the regulations have been reviewed and amended as a rule only to the initiative of businessmen or bodies implementing the regulation, and as a rule only when individual solutions create a major problem in business, paralyzes the implementation of some administrative procedure or prevents the application of regulations that are at the heart of public interest. It's an example of an exaggeration, but I don't have enough time to cite them now. This situation is due to the absence of continued review of the effects of all the rules and evaluations of public policy implementation in order to improve them. As a result, there has been an accumulation of inefficient, excessive and harmful regulations in the past, and then it has been approached by the most expensive and most traumatic regulatory instrument for overcoming such a situation, which is, you remember, so on. The guillotine of the rules implemented in Serbia during 2009-2010. On the contrary, we from the SNS are in favour of prescribing the obligation to conduct ex post analysis of the effects of all public policies documents and all regulations, the SNS is committed to establishing a single information system in which public policy documents, medium-term plans, as well as reports on the implementation of them. This will ensure effective and consistent planning at all levels, which will include precise identification of measures to implement public policies, as well as those responsible for implementing these measures, deadlines, effects and effects. Such an established information system will facilitate planning work, as it will in practice ensure automatic generation of parts of the planning documents and reports on their implementation. With my amendment, I wanted to introduce another concept in Article 2(1). The bill further defines the effectiveness of planning as a concept that significantly affects the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and thus the improvement of the defence system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33110	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Markovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33111	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment as well as the amendment to the previous member, I apologize, has the need to highlight the modernisation and context of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In explaining the last amendment, I have made an example of how a good practice in a local self-government, it is the Vračar City Municipality, is able to deliver very good results, when it comes to the system of planning, of course. This system of planning that respects the interests of all other participants in the planning system and on the other hand priorities, problems, but also suggestions and proposals from citizens and local self-government always turns out to be a good form of cooperation between citizens with local self-government and the co-operation of local self-government with other actors of the planning system. It is a survey conducted by the Vračar Municipality in the design of budgets with a desire to include in the next year all the suggestions, proposals from citizens that they have and initiated, resulting in increased number of cultural content, increased number of educational content, educational content, sports events, events, events, etc. I would like to point out perhaps the biggest success of the new municipal government in Vračar so far, which is to give way to the annexes of the township of Vračar, the city of Belgrade, and for the needs of the preschool institution Vračar. So we're going to get a new kindergarten, we're going to permanently solve the acute problem we have on Vrakar, and that's the lack of room in kindergartens. It is a space of more than 700 square meters that has so far been used as the Vračar Business Area. The municipality gives the space, the City of Belgrade will finance the project and thus we will reach 300 new places for the children of Vracar, for the preschool institution Vračar. Currently, about 150 preschoolers from Vrachar are on the waiting list, and I don't have to stress how much of a problem that is for the citizens of Vrachar. This is a good example of the common and good social policy of Vrakar municipality, as well as the City of Belgrade, and I hope that this example will follow other municipalities. Thank you. a. This is a good example of the common and good social policy of Vračar municipality, as well as the City of Belgrade, and I hope that this example will follow other municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33112	Thank you. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Radčević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33113	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, on the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, I also submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill, where I propose to add point 18, which is – the effectiveness of planning – planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to industrialisation. I therefore suggested adding point 18) to further improve the law and be more precise. In order to manage the public policy system, it is necessary to prepare and implement the planning documents. Of course, it is also necessary to do detailed analysis and constantly monitor the effects that are achieved in this way. In order to clarify that, we can look at the case of bringing foreign investors. New investors, other than the capital they bring into the country, bring in new technologies, build new halls or put into office already existing ones, and employ new workers. The benefits of these investments are multiple. The tax is charged with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the number of unemployed is reduced, new technologies are realized and workers are trained to work on new technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33114	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Charapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33115	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 2. Today we're talking about the efficiency of planning. Efficiency means doing the right thing the right way. Both Serbia and Serbia's citizens today have an effective government. I'll present a few results of our government's work that confirm that. When it comes to foreign trade exchange, we managed to increase exports in January and February 2018, i.e. at the end of 2017 by 14.1%). But the real thing where the export rate is increased is arranged in the right way by the fact that the products of the secondary processing phase dominate the export structure. When it comes to foreign direct investment, the rate of foreign direct investment growth is 26.4%. But the important thing is that foreign direct investment is export-oriented. Otherwise, when it comes to foreign direct investment, we are constantly criticised that it is not good for Serbia to have foreign investors. We've managed to hire 170,000 people. If we take into account that new employees have the lowest income, it is 23,053 dinars, below it cannot be earned, and if we exclude the additional value tax, if we exclude the tax on the profit of businesses, the inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget for a year is 163,868m euros. And if we consider that we have had subsidies for foreign investors, in a year we manage to recover everything we have given to foreign investors. Next year we have income, but only if we look at taxes and contribute, so if we exclude value added tax and exclude profit tax. So almost 164m euros is certainly bigger than zero, and the profit, that is the lowest and not the lowest, is larger than that, of the 23,000 dinars is certainly bigger than the zero we had. When you say we're importing foreign technologies, well, gentlemen, how do we use domestic technology when you've been destroying our economy for the past 10, 15 years? And when we import foreign technologies, the state has income from it. Customs must be paid when foreign technology is imported, whether foreign technology is imported by foreign investors or domestic investors, the state has a customs-based inflow, so foreign investors are certainly as good for the economy as domestic investors. When we talk about the unemployment rate, we managed to cut the unemployment rate in half, but our government is effective. The unemployment rate is halved by hiring workers in the private sector. We have a cut in the profit gap between the private sector and the public sector. That's good. We have an economy on a healthy basis. When it comes to the minimum labour price, yes, we have increased the minimum labour price from 130 to 143 dinars, but it is a good thing that this has been positively reflected in the aggregate demand. Why did it have a positive impact on the aggregate demand? Well, because we have a stable inflation rate of 1.5% where the inflation rate was higher by increasing the minimum labour price, inflation would eat and not reflect the aggregate demand, and when we have an increase in aggregate demand, we certainly have an increase in the aggregate offer, i.e. the increase in product production and the provision of services, and that is certainly good for continuing the positive trend of employment and reducing the unemployment rate, because by the end of 2018, the unemployment rate is below 10%, and we will achieve that. Today all we do is make the citizens of Serbia both today and tomorrow and the next generations live better and that is the responsible policy of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33116	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33117	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, the amendment that I have proposed reads: "Article 2(1). The bill is added to point 18) which reads: The effectiveness of planning in order to overall develop the Republic of Serbia with a view to budgetary stabilisation." It is very important that we adopt this law because it is crucial for coordination between municipalities and the Republic when it comes to planning. However, sometimes events and investors can surprise, an investor may appear without you planning in which way you will accept it and bring it into your midst. I will give you an example from the Danube County, because, as you know, the centre of the Danube County is the town of Smederevo and belongs to developed cities in the Republic of Serbia, as the other cities should, thanks to, above all, to the bringing of a Chinese partner in Željzar Smederevo and by solving this great problem of the Republic of Serbia, not only the town of Smedereva, but also to the good leadership of the city and bringing numerous investors into the town of Smederevo. I'll give you just one example, it's bringing in the PKK and creating an industrial zone in the town of Smederevo since 2015. Negotiations were being conducted. There was no funds. However, the town of Smederevo decided to raise itself, to be in debt, to make a hall of 22,000 square metres in a very short period of four months, perfect, modern, in which Finnish investors have come and hired 1,800 young people up to 40 years old. Those stories I heard yesterday that these new investors have people working in difficult conditions, they're completely incorrect, because in that hall that also produces cables for Volvo, Man and other types of trucks, they work in air-conditioned conditions, which are from 20 to 24 degrees. Their work suit is shoes, cotton pants, and T-shirts, and they work all day in those conditions. They've got vacations twice ten minutes and lunch breaks. And, normally, wages are never enough, but when it enters the PKK, two to three people have always competed for one place, and a lot of people are employed from the Podunavian district, and not only from the Danube County, but also from the Kovin municipality, which is over the bridge itself close and employs, there, and from that municipality a large number of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33118	Thank you. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33119	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 with the intensities to indicate how effective planning affects the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and the specific focus is on increasing investment. What does this mean in practice, the best example is from my local self-government – Squabbling. By coming to power in Sokobanja, the Serbian Progressive Party in 2016, among other things, came up with an unusable plan of general regulation. The plan that should have allowed investors to arrive, both domestic and foreign, meant nothing to the yellow company. For the citizens of Soccommodation, you have denied new jobs, profits, a better life. In their time, not only was it not invested in Sokobanj, but they managed to bring the hotel-tourism company "Lepterija" into bankruptcy, a company that was the hub of tourism development in Sokobanja. Therefore, local self-government leaders who set their priority goal as a priority objective the creation of a new application plan for the general regulation of Sokobanje, which will remove the problems caused by changes in space and that the development of Sokobanja, in line with the principles of sustainable development and principles drawn up in the European Charters and documents. The results I present daily say that we have done so much so far, and that the Law on the Plane System will be a legal framework for us to be even better and more responsible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33120	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33121	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, to Article 2. I have submitted an amendment to the plan system of the Republic of Serbia in which I insist on effective planning that contributes to growth and development, i.e. macroeconomic stability of the Serbian state. Development policy documents, public policy documents and other planning documents certainly influence the formation of a general level of growth and the development of a single nation. This is not just about growth and economic development, but about the growth and development of education, growth and development of health, the general living conditions that a nation can achieve by having a good planning system, but it is not a question of general public spending, especially in countries such as Serbia's, based primarily on public revenues. Public revenues are the result of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as the budgets of local administrations. That's what makes the general state, and let me remind you that the budget is a real and planned category. Serbia's budget was only a plan category for a long time and was planned, but it is realistically feasible and realistically achieved in percentages without any deviations since 2015. To remind the Serbian Parliament and citizens that since 2015 we have virtually no budget rebalancing. Does it say anything about better planning, better and efficient public policy implementation, if you succeed in one fiscal year at the level of the Republic of Serbia's state, you plan a budget that is completely accurate and does not see any changes. When we talk about growth and development, we actually mix two things very often, growth and development. Growth is a clear mathematical category and if you follow the economic results since 2015, then very clearly and precisely we can paint a picture differently economically stronger and better Serbia. Of course, the key contribution of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbian President Alexander Vukic, and this amendment and this law should only continue that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33122	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33123	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with associates, I propose this amendment in Article 2 to add a new concept – the efficiency of planning with the aim of reducing poverty in the Republic of Serbia. If there is no efficiency and high level of implementation of the plans, both short-term and long-term at the level of local self-government, this will definitely reflect both the government's results and the government's late plans. The existence of a clear plan system and the existence of planning documents and regulations are definitely a good condition for new partnerships and cross-border co-operation. I will remind you that even among the points of the agenda of this session are the proposals for legislation concerning incentives for the use of renewable energy sources; from the construction of windmen in Kostolc, to the market was mass, which is very important for the Republic of Serbia. So the government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised great potential in these cross-sectoral projects of sustainable development and energy efficiency and is very insistent on that. Why? Because greater use of bioenergy, in addition to providing security for future times, reduces the bad impact on the environment, encourages and develops local self-government, encourages the development of new jobs, saves money on energy that later shifts in some other directions, for some new goods and services and, of course, poverty reduction, which is the objective of this amendment, means reducing poverty through balanced regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33124	Thank you. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33125	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia, which adds point 18, reads: "Efficient planning – planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on reducing social differences". Indeed, without effective planning, there is no good economic development. I'd like to base myself on the Vozdovac municipality today. I come from the municipality of Voždovac and in 2010, when we won the local elections, we found a completely devastated municipality. The Voždovac municipality has an urban and rural part. That rural part was a disaster. What can I tell you, if the village of Ripanj, located 10km from downtown Belgrade, had no water. The first thing we've done, of course, is we're doing infrastructure. Who would come from investors? Who would hire people if they didn't have good infrastructure? Of course, the first thing she did, the Voždovac municipality invested in efficient policy, planning, infrastructure, and then brought in a general urban plan, finally. Thanks to this, the Voždovac municipality has become an extremely good place to invest. I'll only mention three of perhaps 33 good investors. These are "Lidl", then "The Water Gate" and "Panorama of the Leader". Lidl's German trade chain Lidl, which will open 18 sales facilities in Serbia and employ over a thousand people and employ 300 people on Vozdovac. Also, the company, Israeli, Shikun and Binui Group is investing in the Serbian market 170m euros. At present, we are building "Vozdo's gates", a business-house space, and thus we are starting construction, machinery industry, electricity industry, hiring workers. The third complex to be built is built "Panorama Vozdovac". 13m euros were invested at 24,000 metres. Also, there will be a busy mass of workers. What's good for Voždovac municipality is that the Voždovac municipality has a Employment Council and this Employment Council organises a job fair every year, where small, medium-sized enterprises, large companies are exhibited, and a number of Voždovac municipality citizens are employed every year, at least 200 to 400 people. The parameter or exemplars are that in 2014, the municipality of Voždovac had 11 thousand, 12, and today the number is halved. That's how the responsible local government works. That's how poverty is reduced. It's a responsible social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33126	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33127	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment is heading towards connecting the affirmation of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to social equality with this law. The management of the town of Leskovec recognized the importance of the existence of planning documents and worked intensively in the past five years to adopt all types of planning documents. Until the SNS in Leskovac assumed responsibility for managing the city, only 1/3 of the city's territory was covered by plan documents. We had a general urban plan, a spatial plan and one general regulation plan. Today, the town of Leskovac has 17 general regulation plans and six detailed regulation plans. Today Leskovac is one of the few cities in the Republic of Serbia that has adopted all the necessary plans. The last missing document for the populated town of Vučje will be adopted during this week at a session of the city's assembly that is scheduled. As a result of the adoption of planning documents today in Leskovac we have intensive construction and today in Leskovac for the first time in many years we have a serious apartment building and for the first time my fellow citizens are in a situation to buy apartments in new construction. Statistics say that more than 300 apartments are built and sold annually, and this number is growing year by year. The second thing about the planning documents is that thanks to the planning documents, the town of Leskovac is able to expropriate land for building infrastructure. There are no new streets without obtaining property over land, which is, of course, the basis of which is created again in the planning documents. It then goes to establish public interest again on the basis of planning documents and ultimately buying in the process of expropriation and only afterwards can it be built. All of this I have stated is in direct connection with the development of the city and, of course, with the achievement of social equality. That's why I invite you to support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33128	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jevtić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33129	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I submit an amendment to Article 2 of the proposed solution on the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia in the sense of adding item 18 to point 1 which specifies the effectiveness of planning with the aim of affirming the smooth development of the Republic of Serbia. I think we'll all agree that the efficient planning of the blood vessels is the housewives of every well-defined management system. When we say effective planning, first of all, we mean the coherence of parallel planning processes in the Republic of Serbia. In reality, this primarily refers to the hierarchical alignment of the planning documents from the highest to the lowest level of state administration. These planning documents are required to contain specifics that plan priorities in the work, develop annual plans based on these priorities, develop programme activities and financial structures to implement the annual plans mentioned. Often in practice there is a discrepancies in the implementation of planning documents for various, sometimes objective, and often inexplicable reasons, which often shows the weakness and insufficient efficiency of planning with the often lack of instruments for the implementation of annual plans. Indeed, I honestly think that the lack of compliance with the plans of parallel processes, especially in terms of hierarchy, is the main cause of a large number of problems that, in a practical sense, in addition to lack of transparency, are the most sightings of the country's unbalanced development. For all things, it is necessary to insist on the effective planning and definition of instruments for the implementation of planning documents in all areas of social life. Therefore, this amendment is precisely the idea of the effectiveness of planning in this way, and I want to give support in terms of better and better-quality definition of the concept of the proposed legislative solution, and all in order to affirm the overall uniform development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33130	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33131	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(2) of the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia, which adds point 18, which reads - The efficiency of planning - the planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to tax liability. The proposed amendment further defines the basic concepts of the proposed law. The adoption of the law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia will improve the process of making public policies and regulations in a way that ensures inter-resor coordination, the participation of the interested public, as well as monitoring the implementation and reporting of the rules. In the context of public administration reform, the adoption of the proposed law will improve the public policy management system and will contribute to improving knowledge-based governance, increasing legal certainty, tax liability, as well as improving the business environment and quality of public service provision in the Republic of Serbia. The plan system of the Republic of Serbia at the republic, as well as at the level of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, is not sufficiently efficient and transparent. Over the past few years, certain shifts have been made in this area, but it is necessary to continue to work to implement all activities that would help make the planning system more efficient, efficient and cheaper. In order to increase the efficiency of the planning system, it is necessary to work to improve, firstly, the effectiveness of planning, then the coherence of the planning documents, to analyse the effects of public policies and regulations, to improve the information system to support planning, to remove the lack of analytical capacities in the authorities of the state administration and to implement a comprehensive reform of the public policy management system. The proposed law in practice will certainly lead to improvements in the planning system, and will also have a positive impact on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33132	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague, Bakery.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33133	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. This article deals with the explanation and meaning of the terms used in this law. It has a total of 17, and I suggested adding 18 expressions. I only mention some, such as participants in the planning system, other participants in the planning system, coordination of public policies, analysis, monitoring, implementation of public policies, evaluation of the impact of public policies and, of course, the public policy itself – public policy. I suggested adding an expression – the efficiency of planning. I think we need to calculate the efficiency of each planning in advance. When you say efficiency, you mean quick realization and benefits. When it comes to benefits, it is not only financial benefits but also other benefits such as economic, cultural, defence, national, educational, environmental, or other benefits. Minister Djordjevic has shown through a simple and classic example how public policy can be transparent and useful when it is effectively planned and in the case of the town of Nisa, how the state uses its resources there and reroutes them to be used as much as possible. The state, i.e. the Ministry of Defence, or the Serbian Army, has decided to transfer some of its resources to another ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Education, that part of the "Philip Kljajic" barracks, if I am not mistaken, to use the town of Nis together with the accompanying facilities to be used to build a university in Nis. Thus managed public policy states seek to exploit all their capacities in favour of the city of Nis and not only in favour of the city of Nis but also in favour of students and youth not only of Nis, but also of the entire region and thus of efficient planning to create new professional personnel. Now that the state wants to give, to reroute, to create new qualifications, for the sake of capacity-building, I am interested in whether these foreign opposition leaders who have been flocking to Vienna or going to New York Central Park and looking at flowers, or watching cherry blossom, will now come to Nis to protest one of these decisions that will benefit not only the city of Nis, not only young people in Nis, but also the whole of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33134	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33135	Thank you. And with this amendment as before, I wanted to point out the importance of the process of Eurointegration on our country. Article 2 The law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia is defined as the concepts used in terms of this law. I proposed adding item 18 to explain the concept of European integration, and what makes this government different from all previous ones is that it opened the first negotiating chapters in 2015, although the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed in 2008, and only in 2013. We have lost a lot of time and the opening of the first negotiating chapters is a clear signal that we have firmly decided to implement reforms in the areas of our society, and by the reputation of the most developed European countries. We want to introduce the highest standards and we have unequivocally shown what kind of society we want to belong to. After all, the vast majority of our citizens see exactly the most developed EU countries as ideal for life and our job is to create such conditions in Serbia as well. In addition, the fact that 65% of foreign direct investment in Serbia comes directly from EU member states is at the very top of Italy, Austria, Germany. German companies employ over 44 thousand workers, Austria's 13 thousand. In the last two years, nearly 1.5 billion euros per year have come from the EU based on foreign direct investment, almost three times as much as in 2012, when it was 551m euros. The foreign trade exchange is the largest with EU countries and is around 65%, about 20% of the external trade exchange with CEF countries, and the other 15% is with all other countries. The opening of the chapter sent a message to investors that Serbia is one stable and good place to invest. The Eurointegration process itself is one way to create a better environment for attracting foreign investment, but also to stimulate domestic production. The process of Eurointegration is only an additional incentive, it is not a conditionality, it is not a copying of EU law, anyway, if something is good and if we have seen it work well in the most developed countries, why not apply it in Serbia. We want to create an orderly state, with a strong and stable economy. I am absolutely sure that EU membership is the best way to do this, and it is perfectly logical to add the concept of Eurointegration within point 18) of Article 2 of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33136	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pantovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this Law, where I would particularly like to highlight the notion of the effectiveness of planning, especially in that field that concerns increasing our country's infrastructure capacity. What certainly interests our citizens most, especially young people, is the development of that infrastructure that directly affects the increase of new jobs. We had a chance a few days ago to see that the German "Simens" arrived in Kragujevac, while at the same time the construction of a large industrial park in the city, finally returning to the map of industrial centres. This industrial park will have a research, development and education centre, practical teaching and modern laboratories where young experts will look for innovative solutions, as well as a space to support start-up companies. This industrial park is a chance to hire engineers and trained workers from all over the forest. Also, with regard to major planned projects, it is necessary to mention the announced construction of an industrial park in Borca. This park will extend to 320 hectares and, according to a feasibility study, over a thousand innovative companies will be opened. The project is worth 300m euros. It means 10,000 direct jobs and about 40,000 indirect jobs. The industrial park will be built by the company that built the largest industrial park in the world in the city of Sudzhou, China. Also, already 40 of China's largest high-tech companies signed a memorandum announcing their interest in the project. These big projects will employ our young engineers, scientists and thus keep them from staying and creating here in Serbia, which is, you will agree, one of the most important tasks of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33138	The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33139	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, I submitted the amendment to Article 2(1). The bill, which adds point 18), reads: "Efficulty of Planning – Planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on strengthening the state system". The aim of this law and sublegislative acts is to establish a system of responsibility for results and to create a framework for measuring the efficiency of public administration work. The law certainly is the result of the government's hard work and represents an improvement and strengthening of Serbia's state system. In line with the responsible policy that the government and President Aleksandar Vukic lead, increasingly favourable conditions are being created for the arrival of foreign investors and the creation of new jobs. Besides others, the last in a series of news that I, as an MP coming from Pancheva and Southbanat County, is particularly looking forward to arriving at Pančev's German company CTF. The CTF has decided among ten countries to target its investments towards Panchev and Serbia. The Friedrichshafen-based company is a multinational company that covers about 230 production locations in 40 countries and employs about 13,700 workers. CTF is a world leader in the production of parts and systems for the automotive industry, shipbuilding, railways, as well as electronics for white technology, construction machinery and process equipment. In the automotive industry, there is a global leader in the technology of drive and chess, as well as active and passive security technology, especially known for the production of transmission, control and braking systems. The company is organized into seven divisions, one of which is e-Mobility, which plans to build a factory in Serbia, i.e. in Panchev. The investment is worth 160m euros and this investment, according to Article 27. The provisions on conditions and how to attract direct investment represent an investment of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia. 1,000 jobs will be opened at the Panchev factory, net employee earnings will be between 450 and 500 euros. In the northern industrial business zone of July this year, construction of a car industry component plant begins. Among other things, electric-powered axles, electric-tow engines, electronics, gearbox mechatronics, micro-swimmings, etc. will be produced. Also, the investor presented an opportunity to open another CTF unit in Panchev, which would create a significant number of jobs. In this way, Germany, in addition to being Serbia's largest foreign trade partner, is becoming a significant employer in Serbia. Currently 44,619 workers in Serbia are employed in German companies, with the last investment in Kragujevac and Panchev. That number will exceed 50,000. The effectiveness of public policy planning and management, as well as responsible country leadership, led to these results. Serbia is making rapid progress, safeguarding its finances and also reducing unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33140	Thank you. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the morning course of today's debate has shown exactly how important it is to plan Serbia's development effectively, an effective planning that must certainly include Serbs in the region. We have seen that today certain political options do not skip without mentioning the 1990s and not mentioning the difficult years when Serbs in the region suffered the most. They suffered in severe war conditions that they were least guilty of, and the planning was such that with western Serbs we had one bridge, and it was railway, that the Serbs in Krajina could only see through the corridor, and that in the south of Kosovo Pomoravlje we left a soft stomach and where most Serbs live today there are fewer and fewer. These things cannot be repeated and therefore planning is comprehensive and we cannot forget Serbs from the region. Now that I've mentioned war, war carries many evils, one of the biggest war profiters is those who are rich in torment, but I suppose Mr. Minister from today's position knows best, usually those war profiters quickly, at the same speed, lose that capital, and often lose their heads. As it is acquired, so it goes. What's worse than war profiting is anti-war profits. Anti-war profits are those who drink blood to their own people, scratching wounds that have just been healed, which do not allow it to be forgotten, to forgive and move forward. These are some political parties, we've had opportunities, I say again, and to hear such a policy, NGOs, individuals, feed on torment, feed on the past, because it's the only thing they can survive from. What would women in black do today, the Humanitarian Law Fund, Natasa Kandić, Borka Pavicevic, Bogoljub, Alias Theophil Pancic, and similar to them, would live if there were no permanent memory, the constant return of this people and attempts to explain their own guilt, there and where it is, there and where it is not. The great Rastko Petrovic once said that we are a Serb people who rise to the very place where the Lord God sits, and then we fight in the mud and give up everything of our own. Efficient planning for Serbia's development must always be in line with all Serbs, Serbs in the region, with Serbs wherever they live. We must not give ourselves up and therefore I think that the attention of Serbs in the region must always be part of every law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33142	National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33143	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this Article, point 18, which I have proposed, are further defining the basic concepts of the bill. In fact, planning a public policy of overall development is a basic prerequisite for the reforms initiated and its efficiency is reflected in the implemented projects by the state. The government of the Republic of Serbia additionally raises the standard of citizens by adopting good laws, decisions and documents. By introducing an electronic recipe, patients no longer have to go to the selected doctor once a month, but once every six months. The crowds in the waiting rooms are reduced, and doctors are relieved, they can focus more on patients who need urgent help. Serbia has also recognised the importance of caring for patients suffering from rare diseases that the country has around 450 thousand and has defined a billion and 500 million dinars in order to treat them in the 2018 budget. In 2012 130 million dinars were allocated for the same purpose. Major progress has also been made in the area of organ transplants. In 2017, it will remain recorded by a large number of donors and a large number of transplants made. A bone marrow transplant centre has been opened in KCS, and 90 million dinars have been invested in it. We have reached EU standards in this area and rightly expect membership in the Eurotransplant, which would mean greater opportunities for transplanting those citizens who need the authorities. A Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad was also established and about 60 of the youngest patients were sent this way to the best foreign clinics. A constant arrival of foreign experts is possible, so that insurance companies can be treated in their country, while local doctors gain new knowledge. Investment in human health is an investment in the future. The government of the Republic of Serbia has long recognised this fact and all ministries have made a full contribution to the health development process, and thus to the overall development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33144	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Rancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected gentlemen from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2 defines the concepts of a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. I have proposed an amendment that reads - in Article 2 of Article 1 of the bill, point 18 is added - the effectiveness of planning, i.e. to plan for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to improving health conditions. Basically, effective planning lies the axiom of population renewal. The restoration of the population is the stimulation of all instruments and health policies in order to give birth to a healthy offspring because without the restoration of the population there is no purpose of state or health conditions. As a result, laws such as the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination and the Action Plan for New Expansive Intangible Policy have been passed. The effectiveness of planning is achieved through a network of health institutions and through medical chambers. To remind me, there are 375 state-owned health care institutions in Serbia, of which 167 health homes, 16 primary-level institutions, 40 general hospitals, 40 special hospitals, four clinical centres, I would especially like to highlight this latest Niš clinic, and four clinical centres, 37 institutes and institutions covering multi-level performance, of which are four institutes, 23 public health institutions. The total number of beds is 38,590, with a security of 525 beds per 100,000 inhabitants, which is slightly less than the European average of 570 per 100,000 inhabitants. Security has also been achieved from 281 doctors to 100,000 people, which is also slightly less than the European average, means 320 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants in Europe. But that's why primary health care has reached the security of 81 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, which is a pretty good average, one doctor per thousand and 200 inhabitants. These are all parameters that we must bear in mind when we are planning to bring ourselves closer to the standards that imposes a European understanding of health conditions and, therefore, this amendment further defines the concepts of the bill. I hope that in the voting day you will support this amendment of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33146	Thank you. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33147	Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to the Law on the Planning System on Article 2 which provides for the effectiveness of planning and in order to protect sensitive social groups. For the past 26 years, Serbia has recorded a negative natural growth. This means that the number of people born is smaller than the number of deaths, but for the last 26 years no one has dealt with the problem. The first to deal with this problem was in 2016, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who formed the Council for Population Policy. Of course, the first objective of the Council was to revise the Strategy for Incentives of Birth, and the strategy is a basic document of public policy. Of course, action plans are going to the Strategy. I must point out that in Serbia in March this year, below seven million people were recorded. This is the data compared to 1966, except at the annual level, we had 103,000 births, and in 2017 the number of babies was 65,000. The issue of life and birth is the number one priority for SNS, as is the priority of economic recovery and better life for citizens. In this sense, I would like to point out that the Strategy for the Encouragement of Birth has been adopted, and the Strategy provides financial incentives for families with children by proposing for the first child a hundred thousand dinars, for the second child ten thousand dinars for 24 months, for the third child 12 thousand dinars for ten years and for the fourth child 18 thousand for a time period of ten years. In addition, the law adopted by the National Assembly is the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which takes effect on July 1st of this year. I must point out that for the first time, this government, or the SNS, attaches importance to the mothers of the village, in that the agricultural insurance companies will also be able to exercise the right to maternity leave, as well as those mothers who work on the basis of a contract on occasional and temporary jobs, based on a contract of work, based on an author's contract. Taking care of every citizen in Serbia, taking care of our children, taking care of the country's future, that's SNS policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33148	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33149	President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, although some in the earlier discussion MPs mentioned, I would mention again for the sake of the public and the citizens who are monitoring this assembly transfer, that Article 2. The bill, in fact, explains and defines the concepts used in this law in detail. In this regard, I, with my amendment, wanted to propose in Article 2(2) of Article 1 to add point 18, which is – the effectiveness of planning, planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on the development of the education system. It should be said that in any system of public policy planning, either at the level of the Republic of Serbia, at the level of the AP or local units of self-government, the ultimate result that wants to achieve is efficiency. In this regard, we are familiar with the very procedure of passing any law from the moment of submission, debate in the Assembly and adoption. But what's important is what happens to the law after the adoption? The most important is the implementation of this law, the application of this law to an area that has been agreed upon, and if there is no proper application of life in the field in which it is applied, the ultimate effect of the law is ineffective. So, not only me, but my colleagues who have already referred to their amendments, have been pointing to this effectiveness of planning, by my being in my amendment to the development of the education system. Why? The education system and the education system have the ultimate result of our citizen, who in this education and education system acquires education, acquires the appropriate knowledge and skills that they later apply in work and life. So that the application and efficiency they achieve through the educational and educational process has a cause and effect on them, and so it is necessary and in reality, the uninterrupted development of the education and education system with continuous improvements and the introduction of newspapers, so that the ultimate effect of these improvements in the education system is both better and better, the overall development of our country and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33150	Thank you. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal. Here's your bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33151	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, esteemed Ministers with Associates, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted is foreseen to be in Article 2(1). The proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system adds item 18, which is the effectiveness of planning, planning for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of the judiciary, with the aim of further defining the basic concepts of the bill. For the second day, we have been listening to discussions of former regime representatives, the same one who ruled the country for more than a decade, who conducted a robbery privatisation, which destroyed the Serbian economy by selling off more than 2,500 companies, which fired close to 750,000 workers. The second day we listen to an explanation of their innocence, which without a single shred of shame says not only in front of us, but also in front of the citizens of Serbia, who are being followed by the meetings of the National Assembly and that only what I have stated so far is all their sin during the 12-year rule would be much, but unfortunately Serbia and most unfortunately its citizens, is not. The country's enormous debt, the waste of budget funds, the systematic poverty of the state and citizens, the catastrophic reform of the judiciary, along with numerous affairs that followed them throughout the entire government, are their political legacy. When we talk about the efficiency of the judiciary, we all witnessed a decade ago that the former DOS regime was working to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, primarily through the implementation of judicial reform, when in the strictest way from that same judiciary, over 1,000 qualified professional, honorable and honest judges and prosecutors, with an explanation that all these people are not worthy, that they are not qualified, that they do not know their jobs. Without any remorse, the former regime exposed them to a pillar of shame for one reason only, did not want to become political listeners to the DS. A great deal is ahead of us to correct all the negative consequences of the former regime's rule, and what is most important at the moment is that in the past few years we see the solution, both the current and previous republican governments, to place Serbia on their feet, and not only the solution, but also the concrete results of implementing such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33152	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here's my colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33153	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, comrades and comrades, honourable ministers with associates, amendment to Article 2, which is added point 18, I have submitted because it is simply legal and in accordance with the amendments already submitted to Article 1. In order for this law to be more quality and amendments that I have submitted, it is now necessary to establish the obligation through the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia for the time being, and tomorrow through the Law, the obligation to take much more care of social equality through planning. The amendment to Article 2 will, in particular, give its expression if adopted, and I hope it will, to the direct application of Articles 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, as well as Articles 38 and 39 of this Act. I would like to remind you that Article 3 defines the principles of governance of the public policy system, then Chapter 2 where the planning documents specifying the type and concept of the planning documents, the development planning documents, the development plan, the investment plan, and Articles 38 and 39 discuss adoption of public policies documents and the implementation of public policies. In order to implement public policies in a way that will ensure greater social equality, it must already be clearly and defined through the plans itself, and that these are plans that will determine Serbia's future development over a longer period of time and that will have a practical direct impact on the planning of budgets that will be invested, both from the level of the Republic and from the level of local self-government, it is very important that social equality be determined here by the fact that the extra funds resulting from the funds and funds collected from the foreign investments that have arrived are invested in those areas that are not relevant to foreign investors, but also demographically and due to the very allocation of the population and the rest of the people in their hearths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33154	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33155	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like this amendment to highlight the importance of traffic integration in the adoption of planning documents. The arrival of Serbian Progressive Party authorities, responsible policy-making, both at the republical and local level, as a priority and as a developmental opportunity, recognized the detachment of traffic, the construction of new kilometers of state, municipal and untegorised roads, the modernisation of railways, air traffic, etc. As a result of such action, Serbia records an increase in the number of factories, the creation of new jobs, and the fact is that all this raises the issue of co-ordination of all modes of traffic, the construction of traffic infrastructure, the organisation of industrial zones. The benefits of building a traffic station, specifically a highway, are felt by Ub municipality, in which due to the construction of the first factory in the industrial zone, future workers have already started training and will soon start working. Effective planning systems at the level of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, units of local self-government, should be coordinated to contribute to the creation of a good environment, to ensure that all participants in the system are responsible, to apply laws, to make work transparent, to penetrate all pores that are the key to the development of one system, to start with health, education, good infrastructure. Simply, let the continuity of the work of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of the responsible leadership of local self-government, apply the experience of developed countries and modernising in work and will certainly bring only benefits to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33156	Thank you. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Parezenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33157	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, I have already spoken about the importance of planning and long-term strategies for education. I also talked about how our country has not invested enough in education in the past and how privatisation funds have been spent. If I wanted to illustrate it illustratingly, I think it is best seen on one case that is quite common in everyday life, which is the situation when an individual gets a certain share of capital in inheritance, so not something that he created by his own work, but something that someone else created, and he, by chance, came up with the opportunity to have and now you have people who are going to invest in some business, real estate, to treat it domestically, and you have those who are going to spend it without knowing why they spent and that there is nothing left behind. Unfortunately, this second example best describes how the country was led in the previous period, how the former regime had had been dealing with what generations have created in our country for decades. So today the only way to invest in development, to invest in education, is to have economic growth. I'm sure you've noticed that no one is questioning today whether unemployment in Serbia has been reduced. For several years, they've been saying that it's data that's been falsified, how people are deleted from their work records, how it's not real. However, when all of the world's relevant institutions have confirmed that unemployment in Serbia has decreased, employment has increased, they are no longer saying so. Now they have a different tactics, and that's to say that people get jobs because it's a low labour price. And that's what those in whose time there was no job at the time when these people were out of a job, when they had neither a salary nor a chance to solve their existence. No one questions that it is no longer a controversial growth in our gross social product, they just say that it is not big enough, thinking that we forgot that Serbia was in recession seven or eight years ago and that it had a negative growth in gross social product. Also, what is particularly important, for the first time in eight years, our public debt is in decline, although some critics are trying to show it in absolute figures, so that it looks bigger, and they know perfectly well that no one in the world shows public debt in absolute figures, but only through its share in the gross social product, and the share of public debt in our gross social product is becoming smaller and according to the forecasts of both the IMF and the World Bank in the coming years it will fall below 50%. All that I'm talking about almost four years ago was the current president of Serbia, and then the prime minister, when we entered the fiscal consolidation measures and heavy reforms for the country's economic recovery and, behold, almost four years later, the average salary in Serbia is higher. It's bigger and our gross social product and it's much less unemployment and we managed, despite it all, to have investments in highways, much more kilometers of highways than before, to bring to an end some decades-old projects, such as Corridor 10, and yet, on the other hand, we no longer have a huge budget deficit, which we had in 2012. It's all due to serious planning, serious long-term policies, and of course today there are those who are looking for hair in the egg, who always see a thorn in someone else's eye, but that's why they never see a log in their eyes. The law on the Serbian plan system fully coincides with both the SNS and the president of Serbia, which was defined four years ago. In voting day, I will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33158	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Birmanevich, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33159	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, respected ministers, the Law on the Serbian Plane System continues the continuity of the government, the continuity of this assembly and the continuity of the state of Serbia, which it has been implementing since 2012 to this day, and which it will also implement in the future. What is very important is that this member of the law applies, through my amendment that I have submitted, I am strengthening it and I want to point to the efficiency which primarily refers to the development and integration of the region, and above all I mean bringing investors, building infrastructure and creating all the conditions that are necessary for each region, regardless of whether it is the South, East, North, West or any part of Serbia. What seemed to be an impossible mission by 2012 was just a statement that we would bring some investor, that someone would come to Serbia and that someone in Serbia would open the factory, but the plans that had been carried out since 2012 and that were in office, so from 2014 and 2016 with new and variable prime ministers, but in the background and in the background of all these plans is Aleksandar Vukic and exactly the plan to increase the number of employees, to bring in as many investors as possible a plan that has been done effectively and which has produced a significant result for the Republic of Serbia and especially for the region. What they couldn't do was they couldn't do exactly because when someone came to Serbia by 2012 there was the famous thing – and where I am, and the leader from the yellow company from the town of Sapac, from which I come, which is still, unfortunately, the leader and the town of Sapcu, has been nicknamed "ten percent", and the nickname is obtained in Serbia by what a man does and by how he does it. Since 2012, there is no longer "ten%" and what I want to remind not only the citizens of Serbia, but also the region in which we live, because it is important for everyone who brings the planning documents to Serbia, Boris Tadic, who, when he stopped being president of the Republic, first thing he did, founded his own party. Pajtic, when he stopped being president of the AP Vojvodina, founded his own party, that is, he did not start his own party but left politics, Gilas, when he stopped being mayor of the first thing he did, he threw Vuk Jeremic and Dusan Petrovic out of DS, and when he stopped being mayor then he threw himself out, and Dusan Petrovic, of course, when he stopped being something in the Republic of Serbia, founded his own party, and all together, in an attempt to bring down Alexander Vukic and SNS, were united and, as so far, of course, there was nothing. So I promise the citizens that just the people I mentioned will not decide on the planning documents. The planned documents and the future of the Republic of Serbia will be decided by Aleksandar Vukic, the SNS government and their coalition partners and do not worry about his future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33160	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) My fellow Prince, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33161	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, when we talk about the effectiveness of planning, it is clear to all of us that since coming to the power of the SNS, Serbia has taken major steps forward and has become an economic and political leader in the region. We all know what kind of sink Serbia was in, brought by the quasi of Democrats and the greatest political evil that ruled Serbia. With the wise and smart policy of Alexander Vukic, the state of Serbia has become a fiscally consolidated country, we have a growing number of investors coming in, a large number of projects in the area of infrastructure are being implemented, and the reputation and respect of the Serbian state in the world is at the highest level ever. Today we heard, this morning, since there is no more opposition now, of course, an incredible amount of hatred for everything good in Serbia. We need to learn about both good and bad examples. She also had ex-government, and the current opposition effectively planned during the period when they were in power. They very effectively planned an incursion into the National Assembly, burning and robbing the National Assembly in one period. After that, the worst torture by one authority towards its citizens ever in Serbia's history, which is, you remember, the formation of crisis headquarters by local self-government, when they harassed all political inexperiences. Then, extremely effectively, they planned to release over two thousand Shipatarian terrorists who, when they crossed the border, put on their KLA uniforms. Also, the specially planned robbery privatisations, which hundreds of thousands of workers left out of work, and then, in 2003, we get a prime minister with a late-night school that continues to bring Serbia down. Then comes the collapse and destruction of Serbia's greatest pride, which is the Serb army. They literally threw her on her knees, devastated her, and literally melted her into "The Irons" Smederevo. The disaster reform, also well-planned and efficient planned judicial reform, left over 800 judges out of work overnight just because they thought otherwise and because they did not want to judge what DS required of them. Then, it is extremely planned to single out the Kosovo issue from the UN. Also, in the end, it is extremely planned to lead the state of Serbia to financial and economic bankruptcy. I can understand the personal frustrations of some incompetent people, Jankovic, Jeremic, Tadic and Gilas, but I cannot understand the hatred of my country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33162	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Martinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33163	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr Minister, I don't think that you as Minister of the Interior should particularly explain why effective planning in the security sector is important, or why effective planning is important for strengthening the security capacities of the Republic of Serbia. I mean, both the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party and its MP group in the National Assembly support the government's defence policy. We believe that priorities in this area are maintaining and improving the operational and functional capabilities of the Serbian Army, improving the standards of members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, equipment and maintenance of arms and military equipment, full of war and material reserves and continuing the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational peace operations. Yesterday I said the Department of Defense did an important job in 2017, a job that could not be done without careful and precise planning. Drafts and strategies of national security and defence strategies have been completed, and the White Papers of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, a long-term plan for the development of the defence system and the medium-term plan and programme for the development of the defence system, have been completed. What I want to point out today is that in the coming months we are expected to pass a set of laws in the area of the defence of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I am referring to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Army of Serbia, the Law on military, labour and material obligations, the Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Here I am referring to the Law on the Production, Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, the Law on Military Education and the Law on Health Protection and Health Insurance of Military Insurance. On this occasion, since I have already mentioned the Law on Production, Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, I just want to remind the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that in this area, as a state, we have made a major shift and that this has also affected the surplus in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In 2017, the total value of exports and export licences, when it comes to the defence and dedicated industry of the Republic of Serbia, amounted to over $764m. In 2017, contracts worth over $331m were signed. The overall implementation of the contract between companies in the defence and the dedicated industry amounted to $224m. Direct investment of the State i.e. The direct investments of the Republic of Serbia in Serbia's defence and dedicated industries amounted to only 49m euros in 2017. What is very important, what Serbian citizens should know, from our own production today we regularly serve current obligations towards the state and other creditors when it comes to the defence and dedicated industry of Serbia. Of course, the situation we have today is drastically different, it's drastically better than it was until 2012 when, not us, but some others who were in power were systematically working to destroy all the security capacities of the Republic of Serbia, to destroy all the tanks that we had at our disposal, all the heavy artillery tools. It's only enough that we've destroyed over 800 T-55 tanks, that we've destroyed the largest number of T-84 tanks. All of this, as my colleagues said, is mostly drowned in Smederjev's "The Irons" because someone wanted to, and someone called Dragan Sutanovac, a former defence minister, to introduce Serbia into a NATO pact at a small door and crawling. The SNS parliamentary group is firmly defined for military neutrality policy. The government of the Republic of Serbia will have our full support to maintain the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia, not to put Serbian citizens at any risk from any new war or any new armed conflict, but we will also support the government's policy to further strengthen the security capacities of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, our military because we do not want to repeat crimes such as "Blash" and "Storm" on Serbian people anywhere in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. What is particularly important for us in Serbia, we want to train both our army and our police, but also our security services, so that we don't get anyone on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija to special, military and police units entering both northern Kosovo and Metohija, as well as Serbian municipalities where the majority of Serbs are located south of Ibra. In that sense there goes the intensity not only of this amendment but of all other colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33164	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Kovacevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33165	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, encouraged by discussions by some fellow MPs, I must say that we from the SNS are talking about the economic development of Serbia, which is certainly backed by works, work and facts. The indisputable factories are being built, it is undeniable that our entrepreneurs extend the existing job or start a new one, it is undeniable that our economy has come to life. Not to mention how many countries in the world we have built strong friendly relations that are the basis for economic development, how slow we have trading partners today, and how much growth in Serbia's foreign trade is. We've done a lot of things and we're continuing, we're intensifying development work. Mr. Chairman, the importance of the results of our work is diminished by those whose interest was not directed towards the development of the Republic of Serbia, while they were in power, of course, but towards their own growth in capital. If they already know what they have left us, and they have left us with enormous unemployment and the state to step up to bankruptcy, at least let them not speak now to better protect the interests of Serbian citizens. Serbia's interests are focused on them only while they are in opposition. When they were in power, they lost that focus. The people punished those delusions, but they still don't understand. They will not rise up in humiliating others, but the policy they lead is unworthy of the Serbian people, because it is driven by the interests of external factors, which certainly benefit the Serbian people is not at the heart of interest. We will continue to work on the development of more efficient planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33166	Thank you. To the title above Article 3 of the amendment with the correction, MP Natasa Sp submitted. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Natasha Sp. Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33167	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, this part of the law relating to the principle of governance of the public policy system is an opportunity to raise one question, since point 11, which speaks of the principle of public and partnership, as well as the first and second point on economic and financial sustainability, can be undermined by the lack of understanding of many Serbian citizens why you continue to tolerate the Italian factory "Fiyat" to torture workers in the Kragujevaska flag. Namely, the problem began 10 years ago, more precisely from the moment the Fiat started producing its model in the city where I live and where I was born and where workers, regardless of how the state and not the Italian factories got the job, and I will explain how, all of this is what we Serbian citizens in the budget are paying for. The Italians robbed us in this business. The state has given 50,000 euros for each new job opening. The state of Serbia, we talked about it at our press conferences, pay taxes and contributions, is not done by Italians. The state of Serbia is the one who has provided guarantees for the "Fiat", i.e. for their loan from the European Bank, our guarantee that has been ratified here in the 500m-euro loan assembly, and there is no end. Not to mention that the town of Kragujevac, which is usually in the break-in because of the incompetent Vladimir Nikolic, and you all know well from the SNS, that he is not capable of this function, falls into an ever-increasing break-in and for the reason that we “Fiyat” freed 10 years from local taxis. It was done, first of all, by Mladjan Dinkic, along with Boris Tadic, making such a deal. Now, why don't you give an answer to my fellow citizens and workers who have asked for more plus what they're suffering from such torture, what all the "Fiyata" workers in the world get, and that's to pay them so-called. A bonus of efficiency. Because, you know, this morning when I left Kragujevac for work, I met in the neighborhood of a man who told me that his son, an engineer of engineering, who couldn't find an original job in his profession, and now works in a private company, worked seven months at the Fiat. He was working on setting up a seat in a 500-l model. His second for that is 16 seconds. If he accidentally enters the 17th or 18th seconds, he is punished. He says it's simply impossible for the norm to be fulfilled in such a way. A half-hour break for rest, working as robots, no bonuses, for those who succeed despite such abnormal seconds to meet their standard, then there's no work to be done. They asked Prime Minister Brnabic and you, members of the government, to help them. For God's sake, they say from the leadership and from the management of the bank's "Fiat" - they have no right to do so because they have an increase in wages. Well, their salary is consistent with the minimum profit price and that 6% bonus is something they have to get, because they work at a factory that's bound to give them. I don't have much time yet, because now I'm wasting the time of the parliamentary group. I would ask the authorities to react and to protect all those who, unfortunately, must and how-so work in a factory that can, as our people would say, double their tails and leave, because, behold, it's almost 10 years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33168	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marko Djurisic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33169	Mr Stefanovic, since you are not only a minister, but also a prime minister of the government, it is a good opportunity to talk a little bit about amendments to the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, specifically to the amendment to Article 3 which speaks of the principles of public policy management. Since you are also Vice-President of the Government, you certainly have more responsibility than just a minister in the Government and should pay a little more attention to how and how the Republic Secretariat of legislation works and prepares these laws. In fact and in the legal system, there are some principles and principles. There are two, three, four, five, in some more. There are theorists who believe that an optimal solution or perhaps an ideal opportunity for about eight principles, is approximately. There are 14 principles in this law. If the rules were to be divided between laws, all laws could be classified as material and procedural. This law is some mix, approximately, and there are common principles that are accepted in the legal theory, even some theorists believe that there should be legal gaps that can be initial and subsequent. Of course, a life that may be faster, especially now as Serbia develops, grows and flourishes, that life is faster than the possibility of legal normation. As a result, some legal theorists believe that there should be more legal gaps in order to meet some requirements sooner. Now I'm not talking about which side the SRS would go to, but I'm just saying that this is a little out of line. This is almost pointless. We really suggested erasing this, because it's unnecessary. Basically, the whole law, according to us, doesn't make sense, but you've defined yourself to go to the National Assembly with this bill of law. There's nothing we can do about it. We make our views known. Since you're already here, Mr. Minister, I'm not sure, but it seems to me that last year when you opened the bridge, several colleagues mentioned the Lyubovija Bridge – Bratunac. I'm not sure, I think you were, too, and the bridge is officially open. That's exactly a year ago. He did in a building sense complete. Sometimes something else comes out employees of certain cooperative companies to paint, dress up, but nothing happens anymore. I suppose you could provide some information not to me, of course, and I could use that information, but to the citizens of Serbia, I would say to middle Podrinj, who expect a lot of construction and release but in the full sense and the right of that bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33170	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33171	The bridge has been completed in a construction sense and preparations on our side for the opening of the crossings have been completed, additional funds have been provided for a new transition, for the people who will work there. However, there are still no specific decisions on the part of BiH and certain moves that they should take, that is, to finish the job on their own side so that it could be about, let me say, a border crossing that will work at full capacity, more precisely, not only open, as you say, only construction completed, but put into full function. We talk to our colleagues very often, we insist because we know that this is the need of the population and in this we really often insist when we talk to colleagues from the ministry, let's say, Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also with their foreign ministry, in order to speed up in any way what they need to do to make the bridge work. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, all that has to be done is done, all the ministries, all the departments, and, as far as we're concerned, we can already start full-time tomorrow. It is not up to us specifically in this case, but we expect that this solution will also be made quickly by BiH. That's all I can tell you right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33172	Thank you. To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a bill on the planning system. Of course, the government did not accept this amendment, and with a reason that it did not contribute to the promotion of the bill. I can also accept the government's argument, because I come from the opposition party and no matter what the amendments are, when it comes to opposition parties, the government generally rejects the amendment. However, what I do not understand is why the Government does not accept the amendments of the ruling majority, because if the amendments of the opposition do not contribute to the improvement of the law, then I suppose, by some logic, the amendment to the ruling majority should contribute to the improvement of the bill. We see here that's not the case, you're simply playing both power and opposition, and that's how you try or want to like the citizens, although I don't think it's possible and it can't last much, because it's impossible to connect two into one. If we take, say, an average viewer who follows the transmissions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if, after this way of working, there are still such, the average viewer cannot understand by any means what law it is, which member of the law, because simple MPs of the ruling majority are mostly talking about the same thing, but the difference is just that the reference to the city they come from. Everything else is the same and I really don't think it leads anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33174	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33175	First of all, the government accepts those amendments it believes will improve the text of the law. As someone who had been an authorised proposing representative in the previous four years, in a number of legislative proposals, I accepted a large number of amendments to the opposition, different opposition parties when they affected the better bill. Then when, I'm not saying that the legal solutions and MPs of the opposition and the authorities are bad, but we think that we have a better one, so we have a view of the whole of the law that we consider fit the text we have proposed, and because of that, let me say, the government has not accepted one number of amendments, one number is, which she considered to be good, or to improve the text of the law. As responsible people, we must make sure that the whole of the law is acceptable, that is, to comply with other legal norms, because any change of law requires harmonisation and other acts. Besides, in this law, we will have exactly the harmonisation of sublegal acts concerning the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. Whether or not citizens like it or not, they say it in the elections and, of course, in the previous few cycles, they say they like it. I would like other considerations that the citizens have said that they do not like what they say, is this the best way to represent both their party and their citizens in the National Assembly, but it is certainly the right of every MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33176	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33177	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3. The bill is just another one in a series of unnecessary and excess members of this bill that you tried to make a whole science out of. Of course, you got a warrant from the EU, you signed the law, you really mistranslated it, and here we SRS MPs are trying through a number of amendments to improve this text of the bill a little bit, which is not even supposed to be passed now because it doesn't make sense. With this article, you prescribe the principle of governance of the public policy system, in detail, to explain how, you say, it would allow for easier interpretation of the provisions of the law, and then you say that by precise defining the principle, it avoids overlapping the principle. The attitude of the SRS is to delete this entire member. The amendment I have made concerns the principle of equality and non-discrimination. This is the point of point 9 of point 9 of this article of the proposal to be deleted, because we believe that the generally accepted principles do not need to be particularly stressed in the law, as you do not need to constantly highlight and highlight the principle or principle of equality, because by constantly pointing out diversity, or by potentiating equality, you are just leading to a fertile ground for discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33178	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33179	Thank you. The SRS parliamentary group submitted this amendment with a proposal to delete point 10 in Article 3(1). We believe that the text of the law will be passed, there is no need to burden too much, and that is why we have submitted this amendment. When this bill is adopted, Serbia already has a practice of adopting planning documents, development plans, an investment plan, a strategy for many areas, an action plan and other documents. A very important thing for all Serbian citizens is the application in practice of everything written. Many of the content in the planning documents remains a dead letter on paper, and no one is responsible for it. That's a double damage. The government meets EU requirements, remains on paper, and the form has been met at first sight, objectives have been defined, the participants have been appointed, who will manage the public policy system, who will co-ordinate, monitor, all that will satisfy the form. However, the question remains to which extent everything will be implemented and whether anyone will be held accountable, because when you read most of the planning documents, when you see a strategy for a particular area, when you read the action plan, at first sight you see a list of good wishes, but a list of some wishes, which are not so beautiful and realistic, when such a thing is to be implemented, then encounters with practical problems occur and generally do not meet what is planned or for misimplementation of responsibility is absolutely no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33180	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? None of the applicants of the amendment are there. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33181	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment at point 12 of Article 1(3). Proposal for a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. With this amendment, I suggest you delete this point that is unnecessary. Point 12 refers to the principle of accountability which implies a clearly defined responsibility of institutions for implementing measures and public policy activities. The position of the SRS is that the principle of accountability is understood in every law, as well as other principles, including the principle of public, the principle of equality, the principle of non-discrimination, the principle of coordination and co-operation, as well as a certain period of time within which the law is implemented. We have the impression that the legislator in some way wanted to respect the form rather than the essence and that the bill included definitions that are meant to have as many sides as possible and to act as seriously as possible. We're surprised you didn't, for example. The law does not apply in the following countries, and then you could write at points – point 1. – the law does not apply in Albania, point 2. - The law does not apply in Andorra, point 3. – the law does not apply in Angola, etc. and to write in a second position – the law applies only in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That would be about the same as giving these principles. It's simply not necessary to find such a thing in the bill. When it comes to accountability as such, we believe that it is much more important than that responsibility is defined in the legislative proposal, that there is responsibility at all levels of political action of this government and we are interested in it – will this authority be responsible for the citizens who elected it and will fulfill the promise to shed light on 24 controversial privatisations carried out during the DS regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33182	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. My colleague Chabrai isn't here. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's a friend of Martinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33183	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the SNS parliamentary group supports the international military co-operation of the Republic of Serbia, we support international co-operation between the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. I just want to remind the citizens that in 2017 we had 141 international co-operation activities, 10 ministerial visits, that 470 Serbian military members participated in the realization of eight multinational exercises, and that the countries involved in the exercises were the Russian Federation, USA, Belarus, Bulgaria, Hungary, Macedonia, Montenegro, Moldova, Romania, Slovenia, Albania, Ukraine and other countries. This shows that Serbia is defined when it comes to defence, when it comes to security, when it comes to strengthening its security capacities for co-operation with all countries in the world, but on the principle of full military neutrality. As for international military co-operation, we support the fact that a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Israel regarding military defence and defence industrial co-operation. A note on Serbia's accession to the Technical Agreement establishing the so-called "Technology Agreement" has been signed. HELLBROC, which creates preconditions for the engagement of the Republic of Serbia in the HELBROC battle group, where Greece is otherwise the leading nation. We support the agreement between the Federal Defence Ministry and the sports of the Republic of Austria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, on which 30 night-watches were donated for our forces engaged in the security of the state border and the prevention of illegal migrant crossings. Of course, we welcome the Memorandum of Understanding in the area of military-technical co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Kazakhstan. What I also want to point out is that the Serbian Army also had hearing about co-operation and hearing and still needs to be specifically planned in 2018, co-operation with the civil sector. In 2017, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army reconstructed and opened park Milice Rakic, if I am not mistaken today, Milica Rakic died in Batajnica in NATO bombing. Serbia's military took part in the ceasefire on the territory of the Kladovo municipality. The Serbian Army engineers are working intensively to reconstruct the roads to the home house of Milunka Savic, our heroines from the First World War, at the home of Duke Petar Bojovic in the village of Misevic in Nova Varoš and worked intensively on the construction of the road into two local communities in the municipality of Ivanica, and we sincerely hope that such a policy of the Ministry of Defence will continue this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33184	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bulatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33185	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I am submitting an amendment to the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia in the sense that point 15 is added in Article 3 - the principle of efficiency that implies ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rule of law. The proposed amendments further define the principles of governance of the public policy system. Depending on the principle of reality and starting with respect for economic, spatial and administrative opportunities and restrictions, it is necessary to take into account the efficiency of the design and implementation of the planning documents. The principle of efficiency, as an unfavourable principle when implementing all laws, would generally mean that the resources invested in the construction and implementation, i.e. the management of public policy systems, are to the greatest extent used to achieve the purpose for which the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia is adopted. The principle of efficiency would contribute to the percentage expression of the effects achieved in relation to the expected, in which way quantitative expression of results and their measurement would be possible. The adoption of the proposed amendment, which adds the principle of efficiency, would create an opportunity for the state to demonstrate the overall capacity it employs in the implementation of the Law on the Plane System, which contributes to the affirmation of Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33186	Thank you. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Manojlovich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33187	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the amendment, which I have submitted, is further defined by the principles of governance of the public policy system and this point in Article 3. In particular, the draft law highlights the principle of efficiency. Efficientness generally describes the extent to which resources were well used, I have paid particular attention to those economic resources and how much these resources have fulfilled their use, i.e. as far as they are intended for a task or purpose. Since 2012, the plan and self-planning have been understood and really applied in a completely different way than it was in 2012, when during that period all the planning that was happening we could only identify with some kind of imagination. It was planned and planned to do all sorts of things without establishing the realisation of the plan, without real grounds for such plans, without responsibility and most important thing, without any benefit to the users of the plans, and we keep pointing out, what is to us from the SNS, which is the satisfaction of the Serbian citizens. By 2012, it is not known whether the execution of certain plans has been made, so there has been no realisation of them or those plans written on unrealistic grounds and realised, and I will remind only some of them, there are an increase in pensions and wages on unrealistic grounds, especially in the period until 2012, wherever some elections were held, whether local or republican. Serbia has not really implemented in all respects...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33188	Bring the end, Mr. Manojlovich. There's no more time for a parliamentary group. Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33189	Thank you. Dear Chairman, this is my third amendment to the bill, with a view to improving economic growth. In Serbia, as in the region, there is a positive trend in economic growth. The more stable growth foreseen by the World Bank over the next few years can be achieved provided that the correct combination of public policies and regulations is applied, in order to reduce impact sensitivity and encourage growth. According to the World Bank, overall prospects are positive, as growth recovery is expected in Serbia. The report found that employment is increasing, especially in the large and small trade sector. As for the increase in the public sector's income fund in January – February 2018, compared to the same period last year, this growth was 11.8% in nominal terms, i.e. 7.9 billion dinars. These are data relating to the overall general government sector published by the Ministry of Finance, including all levels of the state, as well as social funds. Based on available data on the gross domestic product, it can be seen for the first two months that the state sector contributed to the nominal amount of 11% growth. These data are clear and clear indications that it was working and that we still have room for progress in economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33190	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Mrdakovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33191	Thank you, Chairman. On this occasion, I wanted to point out that one of the areas of work of local self-government in the town of Nis is also strategic planning, which includes the city's development strategy, action plans, the city development programme, sectoral strategic documents and the management of sectoral strategic planning processes. As for the example of strategic planning, I will list a few of them: the development of a strategy for the security of the city of Nis, the development of a tourism programme for the city of Nis for the period 2018-2020 with an action plan, an analysis of the state of railway on Corridor 10 at the Belgrade-Niš-Presevo-Macedonian border, the development and monitoring of the Niš development programme for 2017 and 2018, the development of a local economic development programme aimed at promoting competitiveness, encouraging employment and attracting investment. As regards the urban development programme, I will mention just a few: support for the development of investments in the field of environmental protection, namely, the “Project of collection and processing of waste water in the town of Nis”; then the development of technical documentation of the spatially functional overall environment of King Milan Square in the central zone of the town of Nis and the construction of a project for the construction of a walking bridge near the fortress; then the sustainable model of the resolution of unconditional Roma settlements; then the programme “Build together”; the presentation of the Villa with the peristile and construction of a protective structure over it on the archaeological finding of the Median in Nis, which is in the final phase; then the revitalisation of the Low Fortress, Phase 2; the organisation of the sports field “Rovče”; the partetic arrangement of the children’s playground; then the program “We work together’; construction of the traffic between the Bulgarian fortress of the town of the town of Rošvar and the complex. There's a lot of examples like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33192	You're bringing the end, colleague Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33193	Please, just one more sentence. I live in the town of Nis before 2012, and now after 2012. I would quote the words of Serbian President Mr. Vukic in 2017, when he laid the cornerstone for the Cumtobel factory. "Serbia invests in Nis. Nis today is a different place of new energy, Nis is becoming Serbia's new industrial centre," President Vukic said. Thanks to really huge work, effort, energy, enthusiasm, the situation in Nis today is much, much better, which encourages and fills with optimism that the feeling of hopelessness is finally behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33194	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Mother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33195	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, we ratified the loan agreement here in the National Assembly last year between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank KfW for a water supply and sewerage programme in four cities and municipalities, including Kikinda. There are, of course, Verbas, Parachin and Librarian. This loan is extremely favourable, with a fixed annual interest of 1.1% and a 15-year repayment period, with a five-year start. One of the preconditions for obtaining this loan was, above all, a successful reform of the public sector in Kikinda, where we brought four public enterprises together into one, made huge savings, then the repayment of all debts that SNS in 2013 came from DS and its derivatives, the stabilisation of the urban budget, and all this was done to ensure that this project was implemented at market values. There's a signing of a special contract. This is just one example of efficiency, as is my amendment, the good planning of a city administration that will finally solve the issue that has existed in Kikinda for 30 years, which is a question of bad and unquality water. We expect, thanks to the city administration and the government's support, clean tap water to come out of the tap for four years in Kikinda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33196	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Palalic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33197	Thank you. It is quite certain that the situation inherited by our authorities after the DS, when it comes to the judiciary, must have required clear and concrete planning to fully resuscitate the disastrous reform of the judiciary during the Mirko Cvetkovic government. After the fact that the judiciary was destroyed, that the courts were abolished, that the judges were fired, that the work of the courts was defused, there was a period of consolidation in the judiciary. A National Strategy for Justice Reform has been adopted, concrete measures and concrete laws establishing a public record system have been adopted, a new law on enforcement and security has been adopted which has resolved over a thousand cases in just a year, which the previous government neither wanted nor knew, a series of new laws relating to mediation, relating to the litigation process. In any case, after the disaster left by the DS in the area of justice, clear and concrete planning and effective law enforcement by our government contributes to strengthening judicial independence, contributes to improving the reputation of judges and contributions in any case to the rule of law, which in the coming period can contribute to a new inflow of foreign investment and certainly to a better life of citizens and contribute to the strengthening of justice in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33198	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mitrovica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33199	Dear Mr. Arsic, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the bill on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 3. The bill is added to point 10) which reads "the principle of efficiency, which means ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on the stability of the dinar course". The amendments further define the principles of governance of public policy systems. By regulating the planning system and linking it to the budget-making process through the medium-term planning of state administration bodies will be more effective in planning their work, activities for which they are responsible, as well as in spending the resources at their disposal. The public policy management process is closely linked to the legislative process, as the regulations fall under the regulatory instruments adopted to implement adopted public policies. Co-ordinated and transparent planning is certainly significant. The project Corridor 10 of the highway "Serbian House – Levosoje", which passes by Bujanovac, is a project well-planned, which will be successfully realised, will be of great importance for the entire southern Serbian region. By passing this law, we will be able to coordinate the plans of republican and local authorities, and we will also monitor their implementation. Why am I saying all this? I am talking about the reason why the local government in the Bujanovac municipality has been talking for a long time about building an industrial zone, and then the president of the municipality says that two industrial zones will be built in Bujanovac, and yet there are none in sight. I think by passing one of these laws, one co-ordinated planning between the republican and local authorities, we will remove the ambiguities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33200	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Krikapic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33201	The Honored Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues, Article 3rd and 14th respectively, are defined the principles of the draft law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia to which I submitted Amendment 3, which is added point 15, which is the principle of efficiency, which implies ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to undeveloped municipalities. By preparing the amendments I have submitted to this law, I have analysed all the members of the law in detail and I can freely say that, in my opinion, the adoption of a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia is one of the important preconditions for foreign investment in Serbia and that, in addition to the government and the ministries, other entities and each individual must be involved. The purpose of each planning system is to achieve certain objectives, by making the objectives clear, accessible and verifiable. In order for the planning system to function adequately in all activities and at all levels, the law needs to be passed. The president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by passing this law and a set of other laws, allow us to plan and set up a plan system ourselves to plan what and how to do, rather than just react to the situations that occurred, as they did in the previous government. Thanks above all to the President of our country, Alexander Vukic and his work, for the first time now we are in a position to manage business in our country, not work for us. Finally, in addition to the principle defined in Article 3 of points 1-14, I believe that the principle of efficiency that shows the relationship between the invested and the achieved should be further defined, and therefore has a direct impact on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the undeveloped areas in our country, so I have proposed that the amendment be put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33202	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33203	The question of development, ladies and gentlemen, of course, is of great importance for every society, and so is ours, and of course is always seen in the context of economic opportunities. There are things that are so clear, so precise indicators, that it's really absurd to try to deny them, and they best testify to how a certain society works when it comes to its economy, how that society lives. Society in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the strong efforts and serious results made precisely on this plan, on the economic plan, today, you can say, unlike the ugly, past times, really works, really works and really lives. That's what official statistics talk about. When you look at the number of newly registered companies, the number of established entrepreneurs, and just compare that statistics by age, it's enough to look at how many formed and founded societies there were once, as many today. Then you look at how normal it used to be to shut down at the annual level of these societies, and how things are today, and to make it absolutely clear to you. In 2012, official statistics say 38,848 established businesses, a total of companies and entrepreneurs. Almost 39, slightly less. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day So the difference is measured in thousands, of course in a positive direction. See what the situation once looked like about closure, and says 40.208 in 2012. So, for nearly two thousand more companies went missing a year, that was standard then, that was normal. Today, 24.668, suma suma sumarum, 20 grand in plus. This says much more eloquently than any other statistic that some just pretend not to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33204	Thank you. The People's MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Collegine Tomašević Damnjanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33205	Thank you. President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Article 3. The proposal for a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia prescribes the principles of governance of public policies according to which planning documents are prepared and adopted and carried out and reported on their implementation. The principle provides guidance to the participants of the planning system to respect the principles of economic and financial sustainability, the principle of reality, the principle of relevance and reliability, the principle of consistency and consistency in the process of managing public policy systems. The amendment, which I have submitted, further defines the principles of governance of public policy systems by adding to Article 3 point 15 of the principle of efficiency, with the emphasis of improving judicial institutions. The reform of the judiciary was and remains an important priority of the Republic of Serbia in order to improve the independence of the judicial system, not bias and the quality of justice, improve expertise, accountability, efficiency of the judiciary. The reform of the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia is based on five key principles, independence, impartiality and quality of justice, expertise, accountability and efficiency. These principles provide a framework for the establishment and organisation of judicial institutions in order to create a judicial system that can fully protect the rights of all citizens with permanent work, promotion and concrete application of them at any stage of the development of justice and the application of law. The principle of efficiency implies a judicial system in which resources are effectively managed and rationally used, applying the legally prescribed procedure for respecting human and minority rights and freedoms guaranteed both domestic and international regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33206	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Dragisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33207	Thank you, Chairman. You know, when someone is President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Minister, Mayor, then certainly it must be dignified, fair and consistent, and today such people represent both the water and I, the Honored Minister, fully trust you. By 2012, it was absolutely not an example. It might be better in fact, if the citizens had been seduced into yellow, and gentlemen, and the yellow company had turned the citizens black. You can imagine the insolence and negligence it was when General Hospital Djordje Jovanovic of Zrenjanin was cornered and charged with 600 million dinar debts. They didn't lack cars for personal purposes, they didn't lack new chairs and TVs, gentlemen, but they lacked medical insurance and health care. You can imagine when a better machine had not entered the lung hospital in Zrenjanin since 1978 and fortunately the SNS turned the course of this story and today everything goes to the benefit of the citizens, especially health care. In addition, there is an engagement in the equipment of angi-osala, a new x-ray at the pulmonary hospital, but of course also medical examinations for citizens who do not have health care. In this sphere, Zrenjanin also takes care of the settlements in our municipality and only a month ago we have equipped the infirmary at the Jankov Most, the citizens of the Jank Bridge have waited 30 years for this situation and I am glad that we have provided him with primary health care and I therefore submit an amendment that will allow the development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33208	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A colleague of Veljkovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33209	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the provision of Article 3 of the proposed law is a tax-listed set of principles that are respected in the construction and implementation of the planning documents. The proposed amendment adds point 15, which provides for another principle, which is the principle of efficiency of planning that implies planning in order to comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the rights of displaced persons. The Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia provides for the types of documents which participants in the plan system, in accordance with their competences, establish or elaborate already established public policies. Other documents include a strategy as a basic document of public policy, which sets out in a comprehensive way the strategic direction of action and public policy in the specific area of planning and implementation of public policies established by the Government regulation. The strategy, as a rule, is adopted for a period of five to seven years, and the achievement of its objectives is planned and monitored through an action plan for the implementation of the strategy. Just in the context of resolving the problems of persons who had to leave their homes during the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted on 10 July 2015 a National Strategy to address refugee and internally displaced persons for the period from 2015 to 2020. That National Strategy concerns two target groups – refugees whose status has been defined in accordance with the Law on Refugees and internally displaced persons from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. This strategy, compared to refugees, identified two basic parallel directions of action, allowing refugees to freely choose for them the most favourable permanent solution, return or integration. When it comes to more than 20,000 displaced persons from the AP Kosovo and Metohija, who are staying in central Serbia's territory and more than 18,000 displaced persons within Kosovo and Metohija, the main strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia is to provide everyone with support for a sustainable return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33210	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Member Compirović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33211	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. It is important to improve the same and efficiency of this system in all areas of our society, both in the judiciary and in health, social policy and pension system. When it comes to the pension system of the Republic of Serbia, it is now in a far better condition than, say, five years ago. The increase in the original incomes of the fund comes first and foremost from the fact that the number of employees has been increased, that the fight against the grey economy is unconditionally conducted, which certainly results in a better situation in both the Republic of the PIO Fund's budget and the Republic of Serbia's budget. There have been forecasts that by the time the pensions increase, they will not be up until 2020. However, the good results of fiscal consolidation have led to three-fold increase in pensions, though the economic growth allowed for this in December 2015, December 2016 and December 2017 by 5%. The good results resulting from the work of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and other bodies, as well as the Republic Fund for Pensions, disability insurance, are best viewed in the fact that in 2004, around 13% of pensions are paid out of the budget of the Republic Fund of PIO, so that the real challenge, although there has been an increase in the obligation to pay out of the pension system, is a stable pension system, which is now fully recovered and stabilised in the previous five years, will lead to the desired goal, which is that total pension payments are below 11% of GDP. In difficult times of fiscal consolidation, the states sought to protect those with small pensions. They are about 1.1 million, so their pensions have not been reduced, but in line with the above-mentioned pension increases, they have grown larger than they were. If this trend of economic growth continues, it will certainly lead to the abolition of pensions for other higher-level users, who owe us a great debt of gratitude for understanding and support, with whom we are on the same task, which is to establish a financial, stable, healthy and strong state. In the end, I can only say that today the pension system of the Republic of Serbia is fully recovered, on stable feet, so that pensions are paid regularly and unquestionably, and I am convinced that pensions will continue to increase much faster and more than we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33212	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Turk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33213	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The plan system law, which aims to further define public policy governance. When we talk about creating plans for our country's development, it is very important that we also develop mechanisms for monitoring the impact and that we plan very rationally and rationally use available resources. It is necessary to make maximum use of the potentials we have, as well as to make use of the resources available in an adequate way so that our results are as good and visible as possible. Through policy-making, it must be taken into account to cover all areas, all the ends of our country, all citizens, in order to give a chance to all our environments and all the regions to develop evenly, and that is exactly the policy that, at this moment in the mandate of Alexander Vukic, SNS is implementing, where a message is being sent that the aim is to develop our country evenly, to invest in the infrastructure of all regions, to create new jobs and to provide a chance for young people to work, to prevent youth from leaving and to prevent the spread of our cities and municipalities. The foundations are set through the provision of a stable financial and political situation and are now working to develop infrastructure and attract investors. The factories are being opened in all districts, both in Rasinsko and in Raška, both in Nisavska and when we talk about new jobs, it is very important to provide our citizens with an opportunity to make a fair living from their work. When it comes to the municipality of Trstenik, 3.5m euros were invested on purpose only, in the opening and training of new plants and the purchase of new machinery, and we expect that when this production comes to life, a lot of new workers will be employed there. It is also very important for local self-government to be cooperative, co-operate and work together to create conditions for bringing investors and for development, because we have really witnessed that we have lost a lot of time and many chances of missing in previous times when our municipalities and cities led people who were inert, incompetent and uninterested in co-operation, who only ran a conflict policy and sent a message that perhaps their regions didn't need to develop. Every time citizens decided unequivocally, they said that SNS policy had no alternative and supported Alexander Vukic to implement all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33214	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milija Miletic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a colleague, Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33215	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will, as an MP selected from the SNS list, but I represent the United Peasant Party here in the Assembly and represent a large number of Serbian citizens living in southeastern Serbia, living in underdeveloped areas, invite everyone once again to talk about undeveloped areas, to talk about development and the development of infrastructure. I can say that our government, headed by our Prime Minister, Mr. Vucic, the current president of Serbia, started in 2014 with the effective development of the road infrastructure, the highway to Sofia, the highway to Greece, the road to the Stara Planina, which I was talking about, which goes through Svrlig. It's a railway line towards Dimitrovgrad. It will work, I'm sure, and towards eastern Serbia. I also talked about Niško airport in 2014 for the first time here in the Assembly and I said that the airport, in the period before Mr. Vukic arrived as prime minister, was in very poor condition. From 2014 to today, the airport has over 300,000 passengers and I call on all the citizens of Nis to trust our president and trust our government, because our government, I'm sure, thinks best both Nis and the citizens of Nis and southeast Serbia. With the development of infrastructure, we have a great chance of developing our own agriculture. Building the road to the Old Mountain is a great opportunity for all of us to work on the promotion to sell very high-quality agricultural products, which are products from the finish line. Once again, I call on all fellow Members to support the amendment that I have submitted, the amendment to Article 3 because support for the development of underdeveloped areas is to support the development of Srlig, Bela Palanka, Gajino Han, Babusnica and all municipalities in southeast Serbia. By developing these small municipalities, these environments, I am sure that our Serbia will go much faster, stronger and better in the coming period. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33216	Thank you. The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33217	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the principle of efficiency is certainly in the function of economic development. Until a few years ago, there were no investors in the free industrial area of Priboj, and there were very few cars in the parking lot, only a few, and most often one of those cars was the Serbian government's vehicle with co-workers of then-Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. Today in the free zone of Priboj we have seven companies, 250 employees, we have capital from Spain, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Turkey, domestic capital and in the coming period all these companies will double the number of employees. The access to the free zone of Preboy was such that two vehicles couldn't normally pass. Today it is a modern traffic station in which the Serbian government invested about 450 thousand euros. There happened to this people one power that parked on the back of this people and fired 400,000 people, and what went after her, little to anyone in the world, specifically no one, it went hand in hand, that the parking service in Belgrade was also doing negatively. Imagine now what we from Priboj could expect well from the people who drove the parking service in Belgrade down to minus? What could those people from Požega, from Užice, expect? We could only expect to be permanently parked in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33218	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic Pavlovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33219	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I suggest that in Article 3. The bill adds item 10, which reads: "The principle of efficiency, which means ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of medical institutions". This amendment further defines the principles of governance of the public policy system. On 4 April, on Student Day, we had the honour of visiting the municipality of Ćuprij, the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Ana Brnabic, and to be a special guest at the University of Higher Medical School of Professional Studies in Ćuprija, showing once again that politics is being held responsible, that it is with the attention and responsibility of access to the view of the facts and problem-solving. The High Medical School of Professional Studies in the region is recognized as a leader in education in the field of health care and care, with a modern approach to continuing and encouraging creativity and active participation of students in continuing exercises and extracurricular activities. Students acquire knowledge of the most modern methods in modernly equipped cabinets. This occasion was officially opened a pharmaceutical block, a computer lab, a server room, after which the prime minister addressed the students. On that occasion, she asked students to stay in Serbia after schooling, and that the government of the Republic of Serbia will do their best to make sure that students stay in Serbia and work for their people, because for the state of Serbia education is one of Serbia's priorities, to give education back to the place it deserves, to create the best conditions for it, and to build a knowledge society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33220	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJibuška Lakatoš was submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lakatoš, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33221	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that I propose to be in Article 3. The proposal for a bill on the Serbian plan system adds point 15, which reads: "The principle of efficiency, which means ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to the development of the school system". The growing economic potential is based on the good planning of all participants in the planning system. Today, we are aware of the result of the transition that left traces of society as a whole and stopped the development of the school system. We should try to create an education system that will function as a quality education, to think about each individual, to bring Serbia's overall development needs into line, which is a prerequisite and a guarantee for a higher level of living standards. The school system needs to create preconditions for each individual, give him a chance to be educated enough to meet the needs of society, and enable each individual to be independent in his work. I will give an example of the Municipality of Stara Paz, where the number of citizens is constantly increasing, which requires the school system to monitor the development of the municipality's business and labour market requirements, which is done, so that new directions in the field of engineering and processing of metals are opened in the medium vocational education system - the machine engineer for computer construction, computer management technician, heating and cooling and auto mechanics, and in the field of traffic - road transport technician, then, the field of work of chemistry, nemetall and graphics, is open and direction – the technician for graphic preparation. All of this was done in order to modernise society, putting an emphasis on the fact that Serbia's accelerated development... (President: Bringing the end, colleague. I'm bringing the end. Economic and technological progress requires the school system to be efficient first and local self-government from which I come even more attractive to the arrival of investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33222	Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miloevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33223	Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 3. I propose that point 15 be added to the bill: the principle of efficiency that involves ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the improvement of the private sector. Only by effective administration, when I talk about the state public sector, i.e. professional management in private companies, we can achieve continued and uninterrupted economic growth. The establishment of the objectives of task responsibility is necessary in order for the development process to be smooth with regard to harmful factors. What is the wish of all SNS MPs is that through the process of passing laws and sublegislative acts, we lay the groundwork on which an efficient economy and the work of state institutions will rest, as well as the private sector. The municipality of Arangelovac, recently received a visit to our town, was praised by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Professor Dr Zorana Mihajlovic, that it is one of the best municipalities in issuing building permits and implementing the law. I refer to this as one of the examples that we are trying to come out as quickly and efficiently as possible to meet anyone who wants to invest or develop an economy or any other activity. Also, we try to achieve the same desired goals in collaboration with businessmen. I spoke in previous presentations on examples of co-operation to build a polyclinical part of the general hospital or on state subsidies for hiring new workers. The desire is to continue this way, and that way goes into the future, and yet I repeat, the adoption of these provisions of the law contributes to common goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33224	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Goran Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ana Karadzic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Granny, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33225	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the People, in Article 3. The bill is added to point 15 – the principle of efficiency, which means ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on the development of medical centres. The amendments further define the principles of governance of public policy systems. Serbian citizens rightly expect changes in the health system and health policy that will bring them better conditions and improve the situation in achieving health care. Also, health care professionals expect better working conditions and receiving a decent man in this very responsible profession. This health policy is based on Serbia's constitutional and legal order, as well as on the objectives set out. First of all, it is based on the long tradition of Serbia's national understanding of solidarity and this solidarity of the healthy over the sick, rich with the poor and young with the old. Care for health, for the better quality of life of all citizens, will be installed in all state policies of the Republic of Serbia as the obligation of all institutions and individuals. During the debate on amendments over the past two days, it has already been noted that healthy citizens are the basis for our country's development and prosperity, as only healthy citizens can contribute to economic and social development. That is why we must view health as a national resource that deserves continuous creation and strategic based development. A decade ago, health care in Serbia suffered a collapse and collapse. The collapse is due to failed promises, non-plann improvistic development, deliberate delusions with inter-party disaster personnel policy, as well as corruption embedded in the health care system, so that it has become the leading devastating factor of regulating relations in it from which there is almost no defence. Such a policy has created a deep gap between health workers and citizens, and it has performed doctors for no reason on a pillar of shame as corrupt officials, although the vast majority of them live modestly and from their profits and do not participate in any corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33226	Thank you, colleague Granny. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33227	Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister Stefanovic, Mr. Djordjevic, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I wanted this amendment to ensure that the principle of efficiency as one of the basic principles of successful public administration, but also the general state, finds its place in Article 3, because in addition to the principle of economicity, reality, consistency and continuity, it is precisely the efficiency of the guarantee that the regulation will be in the service of citizens and that it will allow Serbia to continue to develop and economic growth. It was necessary to create a plan system that was much more realistic on the principle of priority to use scarce resources in the most efficient way possible. Also, the future law guarantees the standardized quality and necessary tools that will best meet the plans and set goals of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The public administration reform is now the most important driver of Serbia's overall development. It must be a service of citizens made up of professional and professional personnel. The important thing that the bill recognises is the evaluation of the effects of public policies and their evaluation. In this way, we will be able to adapt every future policy to real situations and real demands. By host behavior, by good policy, the citizens of Rakovica got a lot of things. In addition to the new home of health, mentioned in my amendment 1, citizens were given a full set of free services at their disposal in Rakovica. With savings and thanks to investor attraction, citizens today have a chance to work, attend free courses and programmes. In my municipality, Rakovica was renovated or built around 60 playgrounds, sports courts and parks. The biggest investment launched is the sewerage on the street of Ljubiša Lekovic in Resnik, and all in co-operation with the municipality of Rakovic, the City Directorate and the Belgrade City Assembly. For the last four years, he's been on the cancer, believe it or not... (President: Bringing the end. I'm done. ... It's been decades. The citizens see it, and therefore, unequivocally once again, they have pointed out the SNS' trust in the recent city elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33228	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33229	I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the Law, which adds point 15, which is the principle of efficiency that implies ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. Given the great importance of the bill's proposal, the efficiency of judicial institutions and the principle of judicial efficiency, given that it is complementary and essential for the further progress of the Republic of Serbia towards the EU, it is necessary in the very proposal for a law to explicitly and unequivocally highlight and affirm the principle of efficiency of judicial institutions, which is precisely achieved by this proposed amendment. The main objective set in the National Strategy for Justice Reform is to establish the rule of law and legal certainty and restore citizens' confidence in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of the reforms that the Government of Serbia is doing with great success is to improve the efficiency of the judiciary, which is seen, among other things, in accelerated court procedures and dissipation of courts, as well as to place emphasis on the possibility of resolving disputes with alternative methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33230	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33231	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the bill on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to health development. Since health is not just the absence of disease, but the state of physical, mental, and social well - being, this government is trying to help people live better and healthier in all local environments. Thus, five bridges of 54,746,000 dinars were made through the Public Investment Management Office, then NBS invested 4,293,000 in the Lavnaj River bridge in Radalj. The Ministry of Education invested 31,524,000 in the reconstruction of the elementary school "Branko Radčević" in Mali Zvornik and the student kitchen of the elementary school in Radalje. The agriculture ministry financed the construction of untegorised roads and a project to control the fertility of land worth 3,037,000 dinars. Project documentation for the renovation of a secret underground city near Drina in Mali Zvornik is under way, called the Stone Girl, built as the secret hideout of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's army. The underground city was built on the orders of King Alexander, and in it it spent its last days in Serbia, King Petar First Karadjordjevic, prior to his departure to exile. It is considered the great tourist potential of Little Zvornik. A major contribution to better and easier traffic communication of the municipalities of Podrinje is the complete reconstruction of the national road number 28, from Banja Koviljaca to Ljubova, worth 720 million dinars. Also, a better connection with Republika Srpska will contribute to the newly built bridge in Ljubija "Bratoljub", in which the construction of the building ministry has invested 660m dinars. (President: Bringing the end. ) In the last two years, investment investments in the municipality of LJubovija by the Republic of Serbia have been 356,300,000 dinars, mainly through the Public Investment Management Office, as well as through the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Energy, Tourism, State Administration and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33232	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33233	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, by draft law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, as the name says, we are creating a legal framework for the adoption of plans at all levels. Plans will ensure sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. Why do I consider planning especially important for the citizens of Serbia? I'll try to explain through an example of local self-government. With SNS coming to power in almost every local self-government, we have encountered problems that have been present for even four decades. Although these problems are vital to the population, such as drinking water supply or sewers and the like, they are expensive projects, but they can be done phasely and would take several years, but certainly less than 40 years. If a resolution had been initiated during that period, the next one had no obligation to continue the project. That's how the decades passed, and the citizens remained deprived of drinking water. Kikinda and Zrenjanin will finally be able to count on a clean drinking water coming from the tap, as it will begin to build a water treatment system. Dear citizens, this law introduces a system of responsibility for results and creates a framework for measuring the efficiency of public administration work. How important planning has also been shown in the case of hazelnuts. The hazelnut is born after seven years. All the plantations that were planned and realized before that period today yield. We've previously imported a $10 million hazelnut, now we're importing it for two million dollars, and as the yield continues to arrive, we'll soon be exporting the hazelnut. We must take advantage of what our country has favourable climate conditions for hazelnuts and nuts. Each local self-government can, on its potential, make a strategic plan and thus contribute to its own development, and thus to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33234	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33235	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I wanted to point out among other things the reasons why I paid particular attention to this bill. It is a new law that will detailed the plan system in the Republic of Serbia, remove existing shortcomings in this area and, accordingly, affect the reduction of costs, both the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the units of local self-government. First of all, the law will be a good basis for making real political decisions at the state level. This will mean good law enforcement and local self-government. By regulating the planning system, the authorities of the state administration will more effectively carry out the activities for which they are responsible, but also better plan the spending of funds for their implementation. The effectiveness of planning is a concept to be introduced for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Legal solutions are needed to facilitate the implementation of public policies, facilitate real planning of activities in line with the budget and improve the co-operation of state authorities at different levels. The application of this law will make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33236	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33237	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, because I believe that the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is an obligation for all of us. The obligation of all of our MPs, elected by the citizens, is to be in the workplace. We in SNS are doing it, and those who, by chance, have found themselves in this room today aren't here. Serbian citizens should know that those who have been given percentages, even if it is 2%, 3%, 5% do not do what they have been delegated to, do not fight for their rights, do not fight for what they have promised. So they lied to everything they said. I hope that the citizens of Serbia will punish them for this and send them to the next elections where they deserve it - a political dump. What I want to say is that, in order to achieve the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to coordinate all those structures from the President of the Republic, through resolution ministries, through government, to local self-government. The local self-government I come from, the town of Kruševec, by 2012, unfortunately, was led by those who are not here today. They're probably ashamed of you from the yellow company because they destroyed everything they could. They destroyed Serbia, destroyed all the ends from the north to the far south. Since the fourth position in the old Yugoslavia, my city has reached the lowest branches, but responsible policy, primarily SNS, in Krusevec, led by Mr. Bratislava Gasic, has brought us now to have something to boast about. I think there's very little time here that I have through this amendment, these two minutes, to say everything that's been done, but it's seen and shown by our citizens on election results and support of over 65%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33238	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33239	Thank you, Your Honor. The respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the principle of efficiency that I envisioned in this amendment refers to the efficiency of the public policy being implemented. This law provides for an evaluation of the impact of public policies on the basis of relevant data and analysis, as well as results of monitoring of implementation, all in order to review and improve in order to determine whether certain changes are necessary. The established effects of public policies are the basis for the revision of public policies and continue to be planned. We can say that the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, both at the republic and at the level of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, continues to characterize efficiency, although certain shifts have been made in this area over the past few years. It is therefore necessary to implement a set of activities provided for in this law that will help make the planning system more efficient, efficient and cheaper. An efficient planning system at all levels of government involves coordinated public policy planning, mandatory impact analysis, standardisation of planning documents, and medium-term planning by authorities responsible for implementing concrete measures. The adoption of this law will also make a significant contribution to bringing Republic regulations in line with EU rules. Accordingly, I call on my colleagues to support in the voting day the amendment I have submitted, aimed at developing regional co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33240	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33241	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, my amendment reads: "The principle of efficiency, which means ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on financial stability". The effectiveness of the plan is measured by its contribution to the purpose and objectives, and the objectives are a key element of planning and also show the direction of the public policy movement. In the past few years, we can follow a course that leads to structural reforms, plans and strategies that are threatening development and modernisation in all segments of the Serbian economy. We can see that initiatives are being implemented through government policy, promoting dialogue on economic policies, speeding up international co-operation in infrastructure, trade and finance, and attracting significant resources and resources, including the private sector, and all in terms of infrastructure development, as the basis of long-term sustainable growth. The public policy system is being transferred to local self-government. In the municipality of Grocka from which I come, with efficient planning over the past four years, there have been 148 km of roads restored and paved. It is an extension and renewal of the water network, up to now about a thousand and a half meters, and has been approved for the completion of the sports hall. Structural reforms and improved business and investment environment have attracted a greater inflow of foreign investors. I would remind you that Serbia is actively taking part in the "One Belt, One Way" initiative in developing infrastructure projects and connecting from South to Europe and within the Western Balkans region, both road and rail network. The new silk path should re-connect the continents. Construction of faster railways, new ports, technological parks and highway networks is planned. By planning and implementing such projects, along with a development strategy, the government of Serbia will ensure further development and stability of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33242	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33243	I thank the chairman. To perform the task quickly requires efficiency. There have been more parallel processes in the Republic of Serbia that have doubled and disputed activity and realization. There were also too many documents, and therefore the costs were great. That is why I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(10), which is the principle of efficiency, which means ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to economic indicators' growth. We've attracted two billion direct investments. In 2017, 130,000 jobs were opened, of which 20,000 in Belgrade. There are 1,100 construction sites open. The cranes are all over the place. Large projects have also been launched, the "Belgrade on Water" project, which raised so much dust at the beginning, which is the largest construction site in this part of Europe. Instead of garbage on the banks of Sava you can already see outlines of luxurious and exclusive buildings. A new bus stop is beginning to be built in 42 blocs in New Belgrade, which will significantly improve traffic in this part of the city. Then, the French-Japan consortium begins to resuscitate the dump and build a factory for the processing and conversion of waste into electricity in Vinca. Makish-Mladenovac began to build, believe it or not, in 1975, so for decades the work was standing. Only with the arrival of the SNS, what was considered an impossible mission was continued. This is of great importance to my city, although in the meantime Mladenovac municipality worked to improve water supply and build wells. By submitting the amendments, I wanted to particularly highlight the importance of economic progress and the increase of all economic indicators in Serbia, because so far ad hoc solutions have been made... (President: Bring the end of my colleague Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... That is why the plan system is crucial to our country's economic progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33244	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33245	Dear Vice President, for effective planning it is important to plan training and education, especially to develop love for the truth. That Dragan Sutanovac, called "grab money", Sasa Radulovic, called "King of bankruptcy", Sasa Jankovic, called "Sale Prangia", Bosko Obradovic, called "lupeti", Boris Tadic, called "lipicaner", Dragan Đilas, called "Djiki Mafia", Djorđe Vukadinović, called "Djorđe Vlah" would not have developed a relationship with the truth and love of truth, although Rahim Peconi claimed to blame Hashim Thaci for that. For these nicknames, Your Honor, it's not my fault, although I was blamed by Djordje Vukadinovic, it's just the journalists and citizens of Serbia. That's how they are, for example. in daily newspaper 18 times in the three daily newspaper Sasa Radulovic called "the king of bankruptcy" in a year, and "Sale prangi" 84 times in two years in three daily newspapers. For truth's sake, that's why this amendment, the love of truth, is so important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-17-0.u33246	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I thank you all. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. We continue the search in detail at the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia has been called upon to attend the sittings of representatives of the proposing or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Rističević's, please.
