ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48124	: Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We are continuing a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 24 of the agenda. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48125	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the honourable representatives of the executive and legislative authority, ladies and gentlemen, we have a set of laws, some of which represent, how can I say, the regular adaptation of the law to our European path, especially Chapters 23, 24, which are the things that are good for our country, because the work that awaits us here is quite large. We also have several laws that, conditionally speaking, are new or very systemically defined by some areas that are important in the Republic of Serbia. We at the Centre Movement are always interested in laws concerning the classical functions of the state. We have mainly something here about both the judiciary and the security and freedom of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In my presentation, I will refer to seven laws that, from our point of view, are crucial. We don't have any fundamental grudges, but we have some things we want to point out both in principle and in particular, and some things we want to point out to represent, as I would say, a solid progress. The first law we do not have, some as I would say, essential remarks, but we have one concern and we have the concern that we have received from an institution that is older than the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the Law concerning the Protection of Personality Data, Article 40 left it, and if we heard it, and I feel the need to repeat it again, one big empty space that privacy can be restricted and something that is not the law. Sublegal acts or even decisions of persons authorised to make those decisions. There's a world where there's a fear of security. We're not the only ones. We are fortunate to have not had the security challenges that countries have in other parts of the world. However, there is this big problem where, in great fear of our security, for the safety of each individual citizen, we put up with a little too much freedom, and instead of forcing our apparatus, our apparatus, which is state-run, which takes care of the freedom and property of private and physical persons in Serbia, become completely apparatus that penetrate our lives, more than is necessary for the safety of the Republic of Serbia and of each of its citizens. No one in the world has found a good balance that they would say is best, but I like to go from the fact that if the house is a castle of each of us, in which the Republic of Serbia without a court order based on one good reason with all its power cannot enter, even if that house was a dandelion, has no windows, doors, or whatever else, the house is a castle. Privacy is the same only on the agenda of the soul and getting into privacy, unless you're a public figure, and there should be reasonable limits is something that's not good. Here, I'm afraid, if it weren't for us to be a country racing into people's privacy, but maybe we accidentally left space, especially in Serbia, which is a small global village, in a Serbian way, that the data of a girl and that then everyone, but just anyone, can become an object of something that would not want to happen to him alone. That means, one thing, how do I say, an observation of the principle of nature, if we put the word law, would be less worrying, or taxing out what these cases are when someone else can get into privacy, and we know what security is. Also, we received a letter from His Holiness the Patriarch of the Serbian and Holy Archaeological Synod. I think their concerns, as I say, may be exaggerated, but let's bear in mind that the church is an institution older than the Republic of Serbia, a modern, renewed Republic of Serbia, that we have only 20 and a few years of true separation of the church from the state and that we need to learn it, and that we need to understand how complex the subject of which some countries do not have answers, not today after 200 years. In this congregation, there were people who were witnesses when there was an ideology in our country that changed faith and when people who believed were persecuted, or they were denied opportunities in life. It would be good to answer that concern not by not adopting or withdrawing this law, but by removing that concern. It's as important as it is that the state doesn't go to church, it's also important that it doesn't happen the other way around. It's not a bad idea, I'm sure, but it's a long learning process on it. The other law that we support, although it may be possible to regulate this area without law, is the Law on lobbying. However, GRECO recommendations, and unfortunately we're still getting GRECO recommendations, we're not done that way yet, and it's gonna be good to finish it. I personally try to finish it as much as I can. I believe all of you. GRECO recommended that we introduce the Law on Lobbying, and it is good for a principle and principled reason, if we are full of mouths to lobby in Brussels, Washington, Moscow, Beijing, and wherever we can do something good for the Republic of Serbia, it is very good that we have a law that says it is lobbying in Belgrade. It's not something that's controversial. The law can reduce the degree of corruption. The law will lead to transparency, but the question remains whether we are ready to respect it literally and there will be challenges. I'm saying we have to think now, in time, how we're gonna enforce that law. There is nothing wrong with the law group explaining through intermediaries the consequences of the law, and what other solutions could be made. There is a thin trap between respecting these interests and making laws to the extent of an interested group, and sometimes it seems to me that it is sometimes moving away in Serbia. When it comes to the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports Objects, in the Group of the Movement of Centres and Free Members, we are against every extremism. We despise extremism, we condemn extremism, and that's what we'll always do. This law has provisions regarding extremism having no place on sports facilities, not because UEFA or other sports Federations, European and worldly, punish us, but because it is something that should not be a place in the Republic of Serbia anywhere. The provisions relating to hate, which relate to the use of pyrotechnic means, relating to attempts to hide the identities of people who are willing to do things that are not in the interests of public order and peace, and who see our country, security and freedom of citizens at all, are good provisions. I'm glad there's been an outcast in the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation that prevents the reselling of tickets. Preventing ticket resales in the area when there is no security risk is pointless unless the resales are motivated by tax evasion. When people who are at a sports event need to know, then reselling isn't something that's right, but essentially, reselling itself isn't something we should consider punishable. If you can resell any paper of value, you should be able to do that. However, some other laws continue to restrict it. When it comes to the law relating to the salaries of police officers, I like to point out that paying is a problem. Salaries are a problem everywhere, because we're a poor country, but the road waiting for the police is the way for people to get, as I would say, a real confirmation that their work makes sense, that bigger pawning makes a lot more sense, that taking responsibility makes sense, that the day you spend with a police journal right on high-risk events makes sense. I'm not saying it doesn't make any sense, but I'm just saying that the road that's waiting for us here is really long. I'll also say that the police are not the worst part, far from that, of our system. I think it's one of the better, but it can be much better, because protecting property and citizens is something that is a key function of the state. With that, all that's about raising motivation is something we welcome, especially about something that applies to the same job carrying the same salary, that you can't have a similar level of work and a similar level of responsibility to have different salaries and that's okay with what's going on. It's a shame we couldn't remove it sooner. Finally, again, I was hoping that during the summer, when we had a package of laws relating, among other things, to the decommissioning of bankruptcy and working with NPLs, or loans that were not quite certain, that they would be fully charged, the provision concerning the amendment of the Law on a litigation procedure will pass. We've had total insanity that when you sell, as a trustee, your claim, that the sale, or use of that claim by the customers, must be agreed upon by the debtor. There's no better way to sell claims than to disenfranchise and thus reduce the liquidity of the economy. It's a good thing it's done. It is a pity that there may have been no summer in the package, when we had “claus nating” and some other things, because then it could be seen that steps are being made to improve, i.e. reducing the number of loans that are difficult, completely or partly chargeable. Finally, the last thing about the signing order, and maybe we should have done it at a time when it's all regulated, but, I'm saying, you can't, when you're passing the law, predict all things. Hence, there were concerns concerning some other matters, especially the personality law, as it is an institution that has a specific weight, and it is concerned. It's not good. So, globally, these aren't bad and ugly laws. The laws are written solidly. With some amendments that would help, by all looking at a state-of-the-art way of good or bad, it could be good, very good laws. What will remain to me as a bitter taste, and to all of you, is that I have concluded that when we prepare these laws, we always write Article 1 very badly in one law and write the title very badly. Part of the opposition thinks the title in one law is terrifyingly bad. The government always thinks that the equal member is bad, and that's one. It's very important, of course, to define the basic concepts of the law well, but I don't think it's a practice that's good, and I'm going as a parrot, from time to time to time to time to remind. There can be a state debate here and here, through the quality of the debate, we can raise the quality of legislation in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48126	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48127	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People, distinguished guests from the competent ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the respected citizens of Serbia, is helping all! First of all, I would like to highlight one principled remark, which I think has marked these two and a half years of working on this current assembly's call, which is that, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, laws have practically come into practice which, for the main reasons, have been in line with our EU legislation, that this is our obligation on the path of Serbia to the EU, that this is of paramount importance for opening not knowing which negotiating chapters that have lasted 20 years of our time in the EU, and so we are constantly discussing the imposed topics of a vain, overcome and completed European integration of the Serbian state. So no one else in Serbia and Europe believes in Serbia's entry into the EU. Leading European officials have told us that there is nothing to think about for the next 10 years, and after ten years, no one knows what the EU will look like, and we sitting here will certainly not be the ones to decide. So, all that we're doing, gentlemen ministers and distinguished fellow MPs, seems like one pointless job. So we are harmonising a complete state of Serbia with a single substance that is currently in serious trouble and will soon be seriously redefined, and it is called the EU. No one today knows what the EU will look like in a few months or a few years after, say, the elections that are due to be held next spring for the European Parliament or any other crisis that is seriously rocking Europe, and all the crises, from security to economic. So why are we doing this wasteful work, to coordinate the entire state of Serbia with one Brussels plant that itself has a huge crisis at this point? On the other hand, for two and a half years on the agenda of the assembly session, no subject of our national and national interest can come. For example, we haven't talked about kim once in this home. Is that normal? Here, on November 14th, KIM will be discussed again at the UN Security Council. Is it normal not to discuss KIM in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Not to be too long, I think you understood what I wanted to say. Will there finally come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a topic that has nothing to do with the EU and blackmail, pressures and orders from Brussels? Will, for example, the issue of the price of raspberries or other strawberry fruit or agricultural products come here in a disaster at all and in which Serbian peasants live today? Can this not remain a topic because the EU did not allow it or because the EU will impose on us all topics of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? When will the fuel price be a topic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, etc?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48128	Since you're talking about topics, Mr. Radovic, I'm asking you to start talking about topics that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48129	What's always been my constructive idea of an opposition performance is to first mention what's good, and then those many things that are bad in your legal proposals. What's good is that we want to support that candidates who are first elected to judicial functions are elected from the ranks of the judiciary itself, i.e. judicial and prosecutorial practices, i.e. judicial and prosecutorial assistants. So these are the personnel from the very house, from the judiciary, who have interned, who have been working on the very source, and they have somehow maintained a judicial system that is otherwise burdened with serious political pressures and corruption. So, I think it is up to all of us to finally change this environment in the judiciary and that these young people who are now coming to judicial office can work uninterruptedly under the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, not by order of the ruling SNS. In addition, to remind the public that 600 judges still did not join the SNS, or SNS did not give any evidence that 600 judges did not join the SNS when they were returned to office. So, that's what I certainly think that the jurisprudence is one refreshment for the Serbian judiciary and that these personnel we're now choosing from the ranks, so judges' and prosecutors' assistants, in a way they should be welcomed, should be supported, given the opportunity, because these are really people who have done a huge job in the judiciary so far. What we cannot support and accept, however, is this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, because I think it is just another cosmetic change without any essence. So violence today in Serbia is an all-enhancing phenomenon. You have it from reality shows, "The Couples" and "The Cooperative", to fan stadiums. So you can't solve the problem of violence, Mr. Minister, if you don't end the national frequency of Pink television, if you don't prevent violence on the media, unless you stop promoting the wrong patterns of conduct that you directly stand out of, who are obviously ready and tanks to defend Pink TV and Zeljko Mitrovica, as the real culture minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, you in "The Couples" and "The Association" are giving a pattern of behaviour, among other things, in stadiums, which is an insult to the tragically injured child of Milica Rakic in NATO bombing, these are other forms of violence both verbal and physical, which we watch every evening on television with a national frequency. How do you expect to have something else in the stadiums? So, ban Pink, shut down the national frequency and abuse of this public good for your party propaganda machine, and you won't have any problem with public violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48130	Comrade Obradic, please talk about agenda topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48131	Thank the chairman, that's exactly what I'm talking about. So, the corruption of public morality, Mr. Chairman, and I think the ruling party is particularly responsible for that, also affects the behaviour of the stadiums. You're avoiding this law, in fact, to talk about the essence, which is that politics manages the stadium, that security services run the stadium, that we have a big problem with the management of clubs where your high-ranking officials sit around, with the heads of cheerleader groups who are actually officials of state security or the heads of the mob or combined one and the other, of course, with managers and other sports workers, behind whom there is serious crime. It is the core of a problem that is not in your law and that you are constantly avoiding. I would even say that the SNS is somehow at the top of that pyramid of hooligan organisations in Serbia. Do you remember that beating of journalists on the presidential oath, Alexander Vukic, here in front of the House of the National Assembly? Who are those guys who beat up journalists and other citizens who were protesting back then? Do they have anything to do with cheerleading groups or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48132	Mr. Obradic, I'm asking you to talk about agenda topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48133	This is also how the subject of violence in sports stadiums, I'm just asking questions...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48134	We can talk, colleague Obradovic, it wasn't in the stadium, then anyone could talk about what happened in front of Pink, when three journalists were beaten up, right? Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48135	Mr. Chairman, if you want to talk to me, you have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure for a word, sit down here in the MPs' benches and say what you have. Don't interrupt me, I'm talking about the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48136	I have the right to interrupt you, first thing. The second thing, I just want to draw your attention to how much you're coming out of the agenda theme and what can be expected in the follow-up session. So if you stay on the agenda, we can keep working normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48137	Is the subject of the agenda of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports? Is there a policy behind certain cheerleading groups? Are there politicians in power behind certain club administrations? Are there any groupings behind, say, the collapses in Savala or beating up journalists at the presidential inauguration? Could they be forgiven for what they do in stadiums to do in some other place dirty jobs for the mob or politicians in power? So, serious question, and how about the subject of the agenda. The second question I want to raise here is the question of the Law of Prosecution. Here's one lobbying bill that's been passed. Banks are the main element of lobbying in Serbia and you are now passing legislation to meet banks. That's really genius. You're changing the Law on a litigation process instead of solving the problems of citizens robbing these banking derivatives, you're further taking sides of banks and protecting banks and banks with this change and supplementing you already have left out for the state to protect their interest and that the state actually solves their problematic loans the way they do, i.e. The banks are fine. Here's what the minister says, Nela Kuburovic, in his explanation, says: "This legal solution is an obstacle, to date a legal solution in the development of the market for problematic loans, so the Action Plan for the implementation of that strategy is just envisioned to amend the law on litigation that is proposed. “ Be careful, the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to allow the market for problematic loans, rather than solving problems of troubled credits from bank robbers who tear the skin from the back of Serbian citizens, you are still allowing them to resell our credits to some third parties, for example for foreign companies, so that we eventually become debtors who know which foreign companies, who will take our bank debts. When are you going to solve the problem of 20,000 families with loans indexed in Swiss francs? When will you implement the Supreme Cassation Court's decision that banks had no right to charge for the percentage of the cost of the loan and for several million euros to rob Serbian citizens over the past decades? It's a topic that you need to solve, Madam Minister, not that you lobby for the interests of banks and that you now without permission from me, as a credit customer, my credit debt and my troubled credit, the bank can resell to a third party without my consent. So, you're changing a law where they couldn't have done it so far without my consent and you as a banker lobbyist are now allowing them to resell my credit debt to a third party without my consent. Who do you work for, Mrs Kuburovic, for banks or for Serbian citizens? When will you solve the only problem that Serbian citizens have with bank robbers and robbers in this country? This is the Lobby Act before the Lobby Act. You work for banks, you work for bank monopolies, interests and thieves in Serbia. That's the problem with what I want to talk about here. Another problem, and I think you've received an opinion from the highest instance and have failed to respect it, is the Law concerning the processing of our personal data, that is, the protection of our personal data. Here is the letter of His Holiness, the Patriarch of the Serbian, Mr Irinej, which is addressed to all the supposed heads of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and to me as head of the parliamentary group of the Serbian movement "The Dveri" where it is clearly said that we have a situation in which the church is rebelling against a law that directly engulfs the rights of the church, the independence of the church and its organs. It is said here in one place in the letter of His Holiness – We remind our believers to Article 43. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has guaranteed freedom of mind, conscience, conviction and religion, and parents and legal ageers have the constitutional right to provide their children with religious and moral education in accordance with their beliefs. He seeks the church there with clear Article 3 to regulate that application cannot apply to churches and religious communities, nor to their church legal persons, and that it is particularly unacceptable that the trustee has inspection and other powers to the sacratic relationship of baptism or marriage of believers or appointments in the act of a member of the hierarchy. So, the church asks of you, and you did not mention it here in your opening statement, as you did not mention that you rejected all the views of the church given to you in the public debate on this law, so the church clearly asks you to respect the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Churches and religious communities in the work in which they are guaranteed the autonomy of churches and religious communities, which explicitly found that the subjects of religious freedom are free and autonomous in determining their religious identity, and that they have the right to self-organise and carry out their order and organization and to carry out their own internal public affairs. You cannot legally prescribe that the church gives you its books of the baptized, its books of the married, its details of the persons to be chosen in the church act. So who's the trustee, or who's even the state, and who's the government to break the Constitution, to break the Church and Religious Communities Act and interfere with the internal issues of the church? It's a general problem with this law. We are already trading too much personal data in Serbia. There are already too many of them, and yet the banks are among the first, there are personal data databases of citizens, reselling our personal data databases, using our personal data databases for commercial purposes. Now you want to take both the church and the church records, so you can put it on some kind of personal data resale market? What makes you think that's right? What right do you have to interfere with the inner organization of the church and ask the church for any information? We've defined ourselves to be part of the church. We gave our data in the book of baptism, the book of weddings. What do you need it for? What are you doing going into church autonomy with this law and trying to keep an inspection there or don't know what you're doing? If the church is already separated from the state and this is what the Constitution says, what gives you the right to do so? I think this is a very specific and clear question, as the specific and clear question has been addressed by Commissioner Sabic and clearly says how, therefore, you intend to stop the resale of our personal data. Why don't you do it with the law? Why don't you, by law, prohibit that market for our personal data and have someone use all these state bases and make some commercial interest and simply call on us without asking us anything? Here, let me give you another concrete example - the voter lists. How did the Serbian Progressive Party get a voter list? How does the Serbian Progressive Party get the right to have a voter list in Serbian politics and to go to the polls and visit citizens, say, now in the Luciani municipality and list voters who will vote for whom? Why do you people have the right to enter private homes, to invite people by phone to a fixed or mobile number, to ask them who they're going to vote for? Do you understand what you're doing? That's forbidden. You don't have the right to ask people who they're voting for. You have no right to break into their homes. You have no right to abuse the voter list, and that's what you do. Why can't we all get a voter's list? Why does only SNS have a voter list? Isn't that also an abuse of personal data protection? I think so. And did you put that in law? Well, of course you're not, to allow the SNS to abuse the voter list and literally use our personal data, and none of the other political actors on the Serbian political scene have that right. Let's move on. As far as the Law on Free Legal Assistance is concerned, it is a subject that is also very interesting, and particularly interesting are these NGOs that you are now introducing in the ability to deal with free legal aid. They're never free of anything, because you from the state are funding these NGOs, and then they're giving free legal aid. How do they provide free legal assistance when they are on the Serbian state's budget and are financed by competent ministries? So they get money for giving someone free legal aid. Oh, no? Well, I'm not so sure. Who are they gonna give free legal aid to? That it may not be the migrants, these 100,000 or more hundreds of thousands of migrants you intend to settle in Serbia, under orders from the Central Committee, in Brussels, when the EU closes its borders for migrants and when you park them here in Serbia and fill the empty Serbian villages? Is the point of this law on free legal aid to help these vulnerable groups? That when we have hundreds of thousands of migrants here under Dublin or some other agreement, you are then well assisted that those people can settle here, renovate all the barracks, buy them households in the country, which you are already doing according to local action plans, give them money to start a business, just give them everything you don't give to your own citizens. Migrants live better here than Serbian citizens. This is a topic that cannot be discussed here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Migrants in Serbia live better than Serbian citizens. You buy them the country's households and you plan to let them settle. You let them all eat, sleep, go to school for free. What do you provide for the citizens of Serbia? Are we responsible for the migrant crisis? Why would we take care of migrants headed west? What are they coming out of Greece and other European countries, or EU countries and coming to Serbia? Why don't they go through these EU countries to the west? Well, wait, we're not that naive, we realize that someone wants to change the structure of the population in Europe, we realize that someone wants to move us into migrants, we realize that someone wants to make Europe a problem and change its civilization structure. And you don't see it like you don't see it? And, like, you don't understand what's planned? And you don't know, like, and you won't tell what you agreed with Brussels and how many hundreds of thousands of migrants you've accepted when the Brussels Central Committee orders you to do it. Who are you renovating these barracks for in Serbia? Who are you making these local action plans for migrants for? Like, it just happened to get into all the local self-governments that have the obligation to bring local action plans to migrants? Well, there's no coincidence, we're not that naive. Let's move on - lobbying law. This is a very interesting law, and the first topic of the law, when passed, should be examined, for example, how did the former mayor of New York Giuliani come to the Serbian Progressive Party campaigns and for what money? Well, when you hired a Romanian and British agency in 2012 and 2014, did you pay her from your money or from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to work for the Serbian Progressive Party? So, how much was Tony Blair paid? Well, how much did you pay for Alexander Vukitch to go to the Bill Clinton Foundation meeting? That's the real question. Let's see that lobbying law, will it deal with how you launder money, how you pay your lobbyists around the world? Wait, this Tony Blair guy works for money. Who paid him? How much did he pay him? When did he pay him? How did he pay him? That Bill Clinton works for money. (President: Bringing the end, colleague Obradovic.) I'm sorry, how much longer do I have, Chairman, since you interrupted me? (President: You've wasted your time, 20 minutes.) Well, then let me just finish the sentence. So what I want to point out here, and that is my final question for the minister of justice – how much will it cost the state of Serbia all those detained who have been cleared of all charges, because information has appeared in the public that 55m euros since 1 January 2016 the state has to pay off those who have been wrongly arrested, held in custody and released from all charges. And you know how much that is? It's two clinical centers and a quarter... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48138	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48139	Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard more amazing things here. It's hard at all, I want to answer some things very seriously, and I just don't know what to say, because the claims are bordering on something that you can buy at a kiosk, there's this SF, like a label, or some comic comic strip, I don't know how to say it. But because of the people watching this, I want to explain it, so people can figure out what this is about. In fact, there's a lot of mention here of a mantra doing something in a dictatorship here, here, someone ordered us, ordered us, we have to, etc. Here, let's say, we introduce law, we completely change the system, we introduce voluntary fire. Is that bad for Serbia? It is something bad for citizens who will have the opportunity to help volunteer fire-saving units put out fires for professionals and that tradition that exists in some parts of Vojvodina for 150 years, that we cultivate this tradition and help those people who want to, do so voluntarily, be part of a system and mechanism that helps citizens. Is that something bad for us? If it's bad, let's not adopt it. But I think it's very good. Not only that, all that is before you today, these are laws that raise standards in Serbia. That's what people don't understand. And often when they say, "Look, it's falling apart," what, is Germany falling apart, they don't have the bread to eat, they don't have, the economy of Germany's happiness, the losses on all sides, there's no Austria, there's no more people to eat, there's no more, they're leaving people, they're moving out of Germany how bad they're going to get? Well, I guess we want to get those standards that have these developed countries. I guess we want to live the way they do. I guess we want to have the normative arrangements of those countries that have shown that through their work they have come to their citizens living better and that these social values which they advocate are what the citizens of Serbia want. And that's, unfortunately, that mantra where you'll never get into the essence. I want to get into the essence. Let's see why we do it. Let's see which one of these countries is. Will their bureaucratic apparatus at EU level function in one way or another, whether left or right? Who cares? Ask someone in Lower Austria if he cares? Ask someone in Lower Austria how he lives? Ask how the peasants who live in their villages live. We want our people to live like that and go towards those countries that made it possible and live better in Serbia, among other things, and because of the kind of arrangements we grow. As for the KIM issue, so here you are, Mr. Obradovic, with your coalition partners, when you were making, since you are now representing your coalition partners with whom you are in the alliance, you have made decisions that KIM is no longer being discussed in the UN, but in the EU. You told us it was top-notch. I understand you are now the EU's biggest promoter in Serbia and not only the EU, but everything the EU carries. I'm surprised you don't wear that Brussels badge "I Love Brussels". It kind of seems to me that it would go best with you. So, you were trying to be the border between Serbs and Serbs in Brnjak and Jarinj. You have made the decision to decide on KIM so far only within the EU frameworks. You have made the decisions to refer the issue to the International Court of Justice, which was disastrously in the Republic of Serbia. You've made decisions introducing customs. You were the one who put those stamps on. So that's all you've done, you and your coalition partners. I don't see the difference anymore whether you, Gilas, Jeremic, did it all the same. So that's you and your policy is "EU has no alternative". Anything the EU requires must be met within 24 hours if it cannot be completed faster. It's the only policy you and your coalition partners are implementing. We don't. As far as we are concerned, we believe that parliament should discuss and as it discusses many important issues, but cannot discuss how much the ransom price of raspberries will be. Why? What kind of system is that? That we should determine here in parliament that Serbia's parliament votes out what the price of raspberries is on the market and say -- we have now decided that 10 euros per kilogram is a ransom price of raspberries and will be great to sell. Who's gonna buy that? Great, he won't buy a kilo from Serbia, he'll buy somewhere much cheaper, buy it in Poland, buy it in another country. It regulates the market in every normal country. If you want to make progress, if you want to have a normal country, you have to respect the market. Yeah, we should fight for it, because it's cheap points. Let's go talk to someone who's going to, here, now I'm going to say some cheap steam - let's help the raspberries, come on! Why did you and your coalition partners beat them in 2010? What did you do to their tractors? For you and your coalition partners harassed them. One hundred and seventy, 180 men beaten for a day, turned-over police cars, beaten-up cops, clashed the people on the street. You and your coalition partners in 2010. What did you do if you're in favour of the raspberries now? He can't. You beat those people. You ordered the police to go to the people, to the raspberries, to their barricades, you and your coalition partners. You were the one who beat up the raspberries. How could you beat these people? How could you do that? You've been doing it with your coalition partners. You take all that, you fight for the same values with the people you're in the coalition with. They're the same values. You stand up for them. And we're gonna beat up the raspberries. That's the essence of politics, among other things. As far as violence is concerned, you and your coalition partners are key inspirers of violence in this country. Key. You're not just an inspirer, you've gone from words to deeds. You didn't want to be people who'd accuse you of just talking about it. You go well, get to Pink TV, Goca Zelec, Mara Dragovic, what's best for those two journalists, best to get beat up, best to beat them, best to break the ribs and knock the other one out. It's just amazing that someone who's practically engaged in violence against journalists and women can talk about violence in this congregation, but you're right. What we hear today, so I see one terrible aggression between you and your coalition partners towards the media. According to the press and the media. Let's cut the frequency of anyone we don't like, let's cancel the frequencies of anyone who says something without us liking it, and you and your coalition partners have introduced reality in Serbia. You and Gilas are the fathers of Big Brother. You've introduced reality into our country. You brought realist programmes first, on state television paid by all citizens of Serbia. The TV "Pink" is a private television. This is what all Serbian citizens pay for. You brought the Big Brother. You and your coalition partners, whose values you have taken over and for which you fight. So, Brussels, Big Brother, I like beating up rabbles. We have so far established that the new values you stand for are. We'll remind you of these new values every day. These are your values. These are the things that you favor with your heart, the fulfillment of all the values of Brussels from morning to night and, of course, "Great Brother" and beating up journalists and, of course, the calls for rape of the prime minister, beating up people who think differently, violence. Anyone who doesn't like the press, so you don't talk to those people anymore, you insult those people most brutally, you throw them out of the room. Are those the democratic fluids you stand for? Is that what Serbia should look like? Is that how he fights for an undivided, stable Serbia, a host Serbia? I don't think so. It's all the opposite of that. As for problematic loans, there's one more thing I want to tell you, at this point, 6.6% of what's called the MPL loan, so, which is risky in Serbia and Serbia has done one big thing both the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance. You know where the most problematic loans were? It seems to me that you fight for the most, and these are tycoon loans. These are the tycoons that they took, like Miskovic, like others, like those from Farmacoma and others, those people took loans that couldn't be charged, these people took loans that became a burden on the state and that after the state, the money of all citizens, they had to pay. It seems to me that you actually... I don't know who you work for. For tycoons who took credit, so now you have to make it easier for them to get out of those loans or do you work for the citizens? It seems to me you don't work for citizens. You seem to be on the side of the tycoon now. Let's stop any law that can prevent a tycoon from taking credit in the future that can't be charged, since it was the main modus operand of you and your partners. It was the thing that seemed to me to be the worst in Serbia's economy. As for migrants, we've been listening to science fiction here for the past few years. I have to say for Serbia's citizens -- here in all, four, five years, about 2,000 people have sought asylum. We've refused many asylums. So there are no legal conditions. Many have left our country before the asylum approval process is completed. They're the ones who really wanted asylum, about two and a few thousand people. A few, maybe ten or 20 won the right to asylum. To tell you the truth, I can't believe that some other people sitting in these benches, who are your coalition partners, share those values, that it's terrible that we gave these people food. I can't believe it. I can't believe that one MP can say something like that, that it's terrible that we gave people who came hungry to eat. That's scandalous. Of course we'll always let people eat. Serbia is a country that is proud of the team. We're a country that wants to be a normal country. Those racial theories and all the things we hear here sometimes worry me terribly. I'm terribly concerned, not because you say them, but because there's no reaction from some people sitting in benches around you, and I know they don't think so, but you're quiet. You know what it's like after when you shut up, then you take over those values that you love, so I tell them, as I tell you, tomorrow, after they've kept quiet, that they're the values they stand for, that we don't let migrants eat, that we don't let them breathe. You say they live better migrants than people in Serbia. Have you ever been to a migrant camp? Have you been to see how these people live? The troubles they make to come, they fuck in these countries. What do you think they like to do? In Serbia, there are about three and a half thousand, total, and so on for years. Under the Dublin Agreement, what a black Dublin Agreement, we are not a Member State of the European Union, nor have we signed any Dublin Agreement, nor are we an EU member, nor are we related to anything. But the fact that we don't let the migrants eat, I really can't imagine that one of our children who was a refugee, came through our country, and they tell him what you're going to eat, what are you doing here? For that kind of value, I really can't believe anyone can stand up. As far as the Law is concerned, we're renovating barracks for the military and the police. So, the police took over one or two barracks from the military, for which the military no longer has a need and we want to put units of Gendarmeria that were completely in unconditional conditions. We also want to help that the military and the police have more modern conditions. We're renovating for them. We're working in Mladenov, a large barracks, where there will be a training centre for the Emergency Sector, where firemen will also be trained. This is where we invest money, in increasing the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I want to tell the citizens of Serbia they don't need to worry. Both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice work every day to ensure that our legal framework, as well as that our actions on the ground, are such that citizens of Serbia are safer and safer every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48140	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. Take it easy, colleague Obradovic, you've caused enough replicas. Take it easy. [[Bosko Obradovic: I am looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48141	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP at the beginning of his address first pointed out that he would support the list of judges and deputy public prosecutors who are proposing today. I believe he will be worthy in his statement and will be here at the time of the vote. This list includes candidates from the Judicial Academy, which I remember, in previous some of our joint discussions and how he challenged. It is a sign that it too is likely to evolve, given that it is precisely one of the values that we have taken over from the EU. When we talk about 600 judges who were said to be members of the SNS, I will remind you that the Constitution expressly prohibits the judge from being a member of the political party and that this is exactly one of the reasons for its resolution, if that circumstance would arise. Here, in five years no one has disputed the quality of the choice of judges in this regard, so I believe that he had sufficient opportunity to bring the issue to the High Council of the Judiciary, which is precisely those judges that his coalition partners resolved in 2009. There are several inaccuracies here, and when it comes to the Law on Lobbying, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the Law on Free Legal Assistance. First of all, I would refer to the Personal Data Protection Act, since it calls for the opinion of the Holy Archaeological Synod and that the Ministry of Justice did not consider the same, nor did it provide an answer. A similar opinion at the beginning of the public debate has just been given to the Ministry of Justice since January of the month, and I believe that this opinion that has now arrived is also a matter of misunderstanding. It is said here that the Ministry of Justice is trying to impose inspection controls in the Church, that it is trying to enable the trustee to review the books of the church, or church books relating to baptism, church books relating to the wedding, but only that someone more carefully read the provision of Article 93 would have just seen that this law prohibits the trustee from having any inspection powers when it comes to the work of churches and religious communities. The applicable law absolutely does not exclude churches from processing personality data. Which means that by the applicable law adopted in 2009, the general rules applicable to all authorities apply also to the church. Right, I'll remind you that under this law, the Commissioner has tried to order the churches to delete from their books. With this law, we try to protect churches and religious communities and enable them to organize themselves the very data they process, the books they run, within the Church, a supervisory body that will control whether these data is processed properly. In no way does the Ministry of Justice attempt to enter the jurisdiction of the Church's internal organization. The bottom line is that if the Church processes certain data of natural persons, it should respect one of the basic constitutional principles, which is that data processing must take care of the protection of personal data. That's exactly what this law allows. It is absolutely excluded that the trustee is doing any kind of inspection or that anyone is taking away the parent's books. On the other hand, these books also have a special system of protection because they enter the archival structure, so that in no way can the state destroy them or delete them. Also, the Regulation and the EU Directive, which is prescribed in law and with which our law is fully harmonised, apply to all EU member states, which means that these provisions are applied by the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the Greek Orthodox Church in an identical manner and none of them has objected. On the other hand, the SPC has its eparchys across EU countries where it must also adhere to rules that apply there. This way you're just protecting your physical faces. Of course, who consents to baptism, who agrees to the conclusion of marriage, clearly gives his personal consent that his data is processed and that his records are kept in churches, and whether that record is properly kept, whether he gives in to some other persons, it can only control the body within the church, not the Trustee, or any other state body. Also, here is a few false things about the law on free legal aid, saying that someone is trying to make this law possible for various associations to receive fees to provide free legal assistance. However, this law explicitly prescribes who is financed by the Republic of Serbia, when it provides free legal assistance and receives compensation from the Republic of Serbia. They can only have lawyers, public notebooks and intermediaries. The associations are absolutely excluded from it. If you had looked more closely at the law, you would have just seen that it is explicitly and it is said that associations continue to provide legal assistance in accordance with specific laws that are prescribed, such as the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Asylum, but free legal aid financed by the Republic of Serbia, only lawyers, public notebooks, intermediaries, but when it comes to public notebooks and intermediaries, it will be an extremely rare number of cases when they are in a situation where they are ever in a position to provide free legal assistance. Secondly, free legal aid has a wide range of users and certainly the biggest round of users are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are beneficiaries of social assistance, then citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, if they had to hire a lawyer to exercise their right in court proceedings, would have compromised social status. So this law is precisely for the poorest in the Republic of Serbia, in order to allow them access to justice, in order to enable them to exercise their rights in court proceedings, and not as you say, for tens of thousands of migrants who are certainly entitled under the UN Convention to have the possibility of applying for asylum in a particular country. As for the loans you also mentioned, I have to tell you that you obviously don't know enough about bond law. The sale of claims is one of the options that exists today in every business. The bottom line is that litigation procedures, which and how long they have tried to speed up in this way, do not await the consent of the defendant who has already been sued and who obviously owes something and regardless of who will be the prosecutor on the other hand, to speed up the proceedings. I don't know how you thought that we at the Justice Department would force the courts to respect the VCC's decision, whether you think that the Justice Department should give directives and instructions to courts or courts are independent and should act in any particular case. It is precisely the opinion of the VCC that it is very clear that each case must be examined in particular and that the general opinion cannot be applied to any subject when it comes to disputed loans. I believe that the courts will certainly act in accordance with the Constitution and the law and assess in any case whether these contracts were void or not at the time of their conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48142	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48143	The Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, have been injured. Chairman, you had to react when it was thrown during Bosko Obradovic's speech and when he was telling the truth about... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48144	Coli Kostic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to the Institute of Direct Injuries, means immediately before, when Mr Obradovic finished, you should have advertised. (John Kostic: We answered, but we didn't get the word. No, you weren't reported, you weren't in the system. (The National MP Ivan Kostic speaks without a microphone on. I don't know what you're thinking right now. What you're thinking, you'll say when it's your turn, not when you're ready. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48145	Chairman, a little out of the ordinary, I think you've hurt a member of 103, that you should have let Ambassador Ivan Kostic finish. This way we will have the tirad that the rights of MPs representing the opposition parties have been denied. Please allow him to say what he has and what you are injure the Rules of Procedure, so that perhaps we can open up the possibility for one of us to say something about the way the Rules of Procedure is hurt and the offensive expressions used by individual MPs. This is how we're denied to hear what you've done wrong in running the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48146	counterpart Gojkovic, first received the word of Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and counterpart Kostic advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure on his statement that I had then violated the Rules of Procedure. Meanwhile, Minister Nela Kuburovic spoke, and the injuries to the Rules of Procedure relate to a directly committed breach of the Rules of Procedure. But here, if Mr. Kostic wants it? (John Kostic: No, I don't want to. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48147	No, you just didn't ask me if I wanted to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48148	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48149	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48150	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank the ministers for answering pointless accusations in this professional sense, in terms of what was not understood when the law was read, if read at all. You know, when the co-ordinator of this tycoon Ljotic association of Dragan Gilas here says that in Serbia migrants live better than Serbian citizens, I can only conclude that it seems that Mr. Coordinator, but also Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic are some migrants, right? So, people who have, as it were, Dragan Gilas 25m euros acquired during his political post, Vuk Jeremic 7.5 million totally amazing donations from very controversial sources, white-world at a planetary level, I am convinced that they live much better than Serbian citizens. So, by the logic of the coordinator, they're some migrants, right? As for those things he mentioned directly to the SNS. It shows – violence, it shows – television. You're absolutely right, Mr. Minister, the greatest violence, the worst violence we could see in front of some television was during the rally, which the Latvians of Mr. Coordinator organized along with that fake unionist Vesenović. It was in front of Pink TV, then they beat up two journalists and probably also showed their relationship to the media and their relationship to women and their famous values. When Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and others saw it, they could do nothing but sincerely impress and invite them to their new tycoon Ljutić Association as protective faces. That Mr. Vesenovic, is he able to do tomorrow, as he did a fantasticly beautiful and appropriate thing, remember that famous invitation to rape the Prime Minister, and that these Latvians can call for hanging. These are all things that can only be attributed to those who mentioned them today, probably unaware that their subject is definitely not worth it. He said a lot of things here, but after touching the subject of KIM and mentioning the patriarch of the Serbian. I remind you, on this subject, the patriarch spoke a Serbian sentence – Aleksandar Vukic is better for KIM. Something like that about Mr. Coordinator and these bandits of his, you'll never hear, be assured.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48152	Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48153	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I am extremely pleased that, from Minister Neboja Stefanovic and beyond, no one can find a single grudge on the 20-year long history of the Serbian Movement Dveri, which has never been in power, and therefore cannot be responsible for any former regime. But that's why your current SPS coalition partners can be responsible for the former regime, but you'll never mention them, Mr. Minister. You will not mention Zorana Mihajlovic, Maja Gojkovic, Goran Vesic, or Siniša Malia who are and how they sat in these former regimes. And from what I can tell, he's a good one to sell the SNS and he's absolved, he's phenomenal even though he was a former regime. If he's a member of the DS that won't sell the SNS, then he's a criminal, then he's a thief, then he's a former regime. How did these, who sold their SNS, suddenly become a good former regime whether they were the SPS or Mali, Vesic, Zorana Mihajlovic or Maja Gojkovic, who, remember, supported Boris Tadic in the second round of the 2012 presidential elections, and here today holds lessons about the former regime. Wait, it's a tragedy. Another thing, the price of raspberry. Well, we know who the market is in Serbia, Dragan J. Vukevic, director of Informer. He determines the price of the raspberries and your coalition partners and you of the SNS. So you decide that and the import lobby that imports what we here can produce and kill, say, the price of raspberries and all other agricultural products. "Pink" and "Informer" are not media houses. These are SNS media committees and they are not journalists, they are propaganda centres of the ruling party. Don't mix those two things, Mr. Minister. And the poor migrants with the most modern cell phones, 18 to 22 years old in the full power of life, with bank cards where they raise cash every day on ATMs, are they poor migrants, Mr. Stefanovic? Look how Serbia lives today, see how the peasants live who can't sow anything in the new agricultural season, because you robbed them with a low price of raspberries and a high price of fuel in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48154	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48155	Thank you. I don't know what good he mentioned to me at all, MEP Bosko Obradovic, caused nothing, I guess he's obsessed with the character and the work of Maja Gojkovic. But it would be good if we really talked once about the stains in my career, even in the career of all the other politicians you listed, and I'm going to name just one stain of Bosko Obradovic's MPs. It's that he recently participated in an election campaign that, if I'm not mistaken, and I'm not wrong, it rarely happens to me, called for these to go away without them coming back. As far as I can see, Bosko Obradovic is in that society he wanted never to come back for, so now he's heartily helping them with the very politicians who have big spots. I want to remind Bosko Obradovic that he is now a loud political speaker such as Vuk Jeremic, who really has big spots in his career. Well, let Bosko Obradovic explain in Cačka and around that Vuk Jeremic doesn't have any stains, and millions and millions of euros have recently been paying him fees for what. That would be nice for you to explain to your voters, because you've fooled them, because you've got zero votes for that campaign, but to explain how you joined those who shouldn't come back. So let's ask, what kind of society are you in now, when this same Wolf Jeremic raised a state plane to go see a match on Wimbledon, to enjoy his wife and to attend a tennis match. Is that something positive, are these the values you represent as a loud speaker of those who should not return and what kind of stains of other politicians are you talking about? By the way, let me inform you, I'm on my way to Chachak this morning, and I wanted to see the Dwarry Meat Committee work in Chačka. But they told me not to go there, because a single member exists there, Bosko Obradovic, so I'd better sit here in parliament, and watch what the Davery Meat Committee in Chačka does, rather than come all this way so I don't have anyone to meet there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48156	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. Take it easy, colleague Obradovic, when you discuss making a lot of replicas. Right on line, MP Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48157	Thank you. Replica, Article 107. Injured by Parliament's dignity. When people tell lies, falsely, it certainly is because it is said that there is no spot when the Serbian Dvori movement is at stake and that it could not be found. Anyone who has read little will be very clear that there are plenty of places where, not that there are stains, but such smuts, for which there are serious sanctions to follow. I'm just going to quote briefly on the items, so let them pick out what they want more details about. Will they mess with Montenegrin and Russian mobsters? Will they mess with Hilandar, with the embezzled money? Will he finance from the Democratic Party of Serbia? Get 50,000 euros, five thousand cost, another five take for their pleasure, 40 grand give to the one who paid them 50,000 euros? Will they mess with DS? How did Gilas finance them with his best man on a regular basis? But it's not the Dvori, it's the writers and historians, so it's overgrown later. They swear in Hilandar that they will never grow into a political organisation, that there will be no president in the Dwarves, so none of this has happened. I don't know, see what else there is. Oh, that's a big item! Abuse of money from the Republic budget. Twenty-nine million dinars were taken, only 25% justified as intended. Everything else is handed over to their companies that are tied to the Twors. Here, it's so taxing to you, so you choose to explain it by each item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48158	The word has a minister, Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48159	I am sorry to hear so little understanding, i.e. as far as I understand that a little respect for freedom of speech and the rights of the media is concerned, and what would that coalition look like if it came back to the rule of Đilas, Jeremic, Obradovic and other members of the coalition, how would Serbia actually look media? Someone would evaluate on the party boards whether the media was similar, whether a journalist beats up, I strongly advised some journalists, there are several shops in Belgrade that sell those protective equipment, so they can buy it, get it just in case. Then those media who don't pass the party selection of the alliance would have to be shut down and God forbid if a journalist shows up that morning and says something other than being a closed house he's working in, he can count and get beat, even if it's a woman, a double beating. So it's such security. Now, the only thing that would obviously increase is the sale of these badges "I love Brussels", that would jump sales, and maybe you should think about business. But one thing I think every man has to react to is creating this fake picture of Serbia being threatened by some evil migrants who came here to kill us all. When you remember those kids that went through Serbia, when you remember how many they are, what are those kids doing to anyone? What are those women responsible for the war, for the misery, for the lack of wealth, so can we blame them for that, through Serbia? They want to go to Western Europe, it's not a dispute. Somewhere their doors were closed and some of these people couldn't leave, tried to cross the sea, many of them lost their lives, drowned in that water. In Serbia, they are treated politely. Many of them, I can tell you, I was also proud as interior minister, but also as a citizen of our country, which we received hundreds of letters from, thousands of letters from those people who wrote about Serbia very nicely, who wrote this when they were in some other countries, had no reason to do so, except because they really felt it sincerely. They wrote a letter and said – no one beat us, they treated us politely, they gave us food and drink, we took care of us while we were in that territory. And what else was Serbia supposed to do? Is there someone who would do something different? You see, child, you see child... Well, I see that some others would work differently. But when you see a child, a child who's learned in a few months, as much as in Serbia, a little English, learns a little Serbian, wants a child to feel good in a country where he's in that moment, and a top-class talented child, a child who can draw, a child who can show his artistic talent. And what is the child's fault for anything or the parents of that child or his brother? What are they to blame for anything? What kind of phones can they have? If these people swim so much in money, it turns out they have millions in their pockets, so what do they sleep in camps where conditions are really complex? Not because Serbia is not a good host, but because, you know, when you live in a collective accommodation, when you live in conditions where you sleep with 30, 40 people in one room, it's not like living in your own house. But what I'm trying to tell you is, these stories, the maltenes like these, have gone through Serbia over a million and 200, a million and 300,000 migrants, through our country, probably various. Those who were richer and richer slept in hotels, raised money, paid for smugglers, we arrested many. But it was that wave in 2015. Look at the people who today are of these 3,200, 3,300, 3,400 people who are in our country's territory. These people really aren't wealthy, they're really not rich people. They escaped from their country because of their poverty and poverty. Well, would a rich man from his own country run away if he got into a fight and went camping, got on a plane and flew away? But, unfortunately, it's a very dangerous story that should essentially scare the citizens that something terrible is going on in Serbia, hundreds of thousands of some people should come. That's ridiculous. First, as if someone could force Serbia to receive one man if we will not, secondly, there is no legal basis, thirdly, in our country asylum has requested so few people and there is so few, otherwise, the basis to get it, that it is so little that we would not fill the camp in Presevo with those people. So that's what the whole truth is. What's most dangerous is that constant pressure on the media. You can't let such an atmosphere in society say - I don't like this TV, I'll shut it down, I don't like the newspaper, let's rip it up. Although, they're not the first to tear up the paper and burn it. It's a terrible thing, a terrible thing, when you try to suppress someone's opinion just because they're different and because you don't like them. There's no excuse for that. Is there any media I don't like? There is. Is there any media that write in a way that I think is completely unspeakable, but that's their right? If I think there are any elements to seek protection, I'll go to court. When I did that, I was satanic. It wasn't Satanized Dragan Gilas who sued the media five hundred times. It's all right and it's democracy. When someone else does, it's a huge problem. But none of us asked for those media to be abolished, to file criminal charges against journalists, and to return the verbal delicacy for a written or spoken word and to beat these people up, shut down or something. That's what's scandalous. We see here a pattern to make Serbia look if, God forbid, these come back to power. The fact that someone was not in executive power at some point, accepting to be part of the coalition, accepts all the values of that coalition. Not in that coalition some former members of these parties, but the presidents of these parties, their leaders, people who influenced and decided about life and death in Serbia, who introduced the "Big Brother" who introduced reality into our country, who had so many businesses that they had traffic at the time when they were ministers, mayors and directors of 18 billion dinars, not 18 million dinars, billions of dinars on their companies, and then after a company, they agreed with the School that they would sell it, because they didn't see each other, they didn't know what they looked like, they had those pictures to identify, you know that -- there's a picture, yeah, let's see, and what I'm selling to him for 20 million, e, that's the third hundred of the entry, the hotel and that one. I don't know who might believe that. In any case, Serbian citizens should know that unlike these people, who would in such an irresponsible way shut down our factories, and have already tried to shut down factories where people work, and I'm surprised they haven't apologized to those workers, not factory owners, workers of these factories, because these people are getting paid today. These people would shut down our factories, shut down our media, don't open anything, just shut down. We don't want to live in such a Serbia, we don't want to live in Serbia where something is closing, we want to live in Serbia that builds a tolerance, open and democratic society and that you have to hear something when you don't like it, whatever TV is and whatever media, whatever journalist, so let him say whatever he wants, I may not like it as much as he wants, but it's their right and we have to respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48160	The People's MP, Bosko Obradovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48161	Thank you, Chairman. Well, if we use the logic of Minister Nebojja Stefanovic, then SNS shares the same values with a member of its coalition, Vuk Draskovic and the SPO that advocates Serbia's entry into NATO. What do we do now, Mr. Stefanovic? Are you for NATO as your coalition partner Vuk Draskovic? That's an awkward question. Or should we ask, for example, colleague Maja Gojkovic – how many parties has she changed so far, from the Serbian Chetnic Movement, through the SRS, the People's Party, the vote for Boris Tadic in the second round of the 2012 presidential elections, to the SNS? Imagine me, who was against Boris Tadic, who was also against Tomislav Nikolic, because the Dvori boycotted the second round of the 2012 presidential elections, to know and remember, and to be objected to by someone that I support the former regime, someone who voted and supported Boris Tadic publicly in the second round of the 2012 presidential elections, i.e. Maja Gojkovic, current president of the National Assembly. Well, wait, so who isn't that funny? Who doesn't think that's funny? And another thing, colleague Maria Obradovic, where did you all get this information? Did this from “The Cooperative, ” from“ The Couple, ” tell you “the tree of wisdom ”? Do you have one proof of what you're lying about? Well, imagine you robbed Hilandar Bosko Obradovic. Well, how is it that the Hilandarian and the entire brotherhood receives Bosko Obradovic and all the MPs and members of the Dvora presidency every year several times in the monastery, if we robbed them? Well, people, these are monstrous accusations. Well, those are incredible lies. Well, ask the monastery if we robbed them, don't embarrass the holy monastery of Hilandar, don't lie anymore. In the end, a child from 18 to 27 years old with the most modern mobile phone and a bank card is not a child, Mr. Minister, but a potential terrorist who has carried out acts of terrorism across Europe, and he was some sort of migrant we were supposed to receive and who went through Serbia. Besides, he's not stupid, Viktor Orban, why he raises walls and doesn't allow anyone to enter Hungary.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48162	My colleague, Obradic, congratulations. First, the right to the replica of the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48163	Thank you very much. So today Bosko Obradovic has a dot on me, but everything is fine. Let me tell you, first of all, in the Serbian Chetnik movement, I've never been. That's what MPs know, without throwing Mrs. Jerkov away, because I'm going to mention you now anyway. They know, like, one-fifth of the MPs here, if we count the majority, then almost everyone in this House knows. I'm very proud that someone from your neighborhood, and I think most of the citizens in your area, belonged to Draža Mihajlovic's movement, therefore, please don't talk about it in a word. And my grandfather personally participated in an operation to rescue 550 US pilots in Operation Halliard and certainly wasn't a partisan. And I am also very proud of that, as did refugees from Slovenia in World War II. And it is this honorable and honest Serbia and the Chacan region and the Shumadi which certainly and in these times would not speak uglyly of migrants as you speak, honourable MPs, and your supporters, but provided bread, salt and what they had and received from Slovenia then to their hearths. I didn't know you were such a funny man or I'd change my mind about you. Whether I've been to a number of parties or not, that's what the voters are talking about, and that's not your problem. And, which is the problem, I was in 5001, if it'll make it a little easier for you, let's talk about some other topics. But I'd like to ask you not to talk ugly about your co-workers from your latest movement all together for not knowing what or from that half of your coalition that they don't come back. And that was your parole. Well, like this. Alexandra Jerkov wasn't someone who was the heir to the DS, because she was at the Nenada Chanka. Sanda Raskovic Ivić entered the parliament in this Suziv as the first on the DSS list, and is now at Vuk Jeremic's. Diana Vukomanovic won the post thanks to Ivica Dacic and SPS, and now she represents neither I know what, again, Vuk Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48164	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48165	Therefore, I would advise you not to start this painful topic for your coalition, because in the coalition to leave, without these coming back, you really don't know who it is, how it got into parliament, and in which currently parliamentary group. So I am also President of Parliament confused, because I no longer know which committee to put in and who belongs to which delegation. And by the way, I've been in as many games as you want, I don't care what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48166	Thank you. Right on line, MP Marija Obradovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48167	Thank you, Chairman. I feel really bad when someone says I'm lying, telling the truth. I've never said anything about this pay phone and this building that I don't have proof and something that isn't true, which is not the case with my conversators, or with the previous speakers who accused me of it. But we'll get over it. The point is that Bosko Obradovic says what he says, speaks to his voters, not to me personally. When you talk about yourself, you convince them to keep voting for you or to start voting for you. Before they start voting for you, since there are few who are already voting, we have already made sure of several previous elections, and I can't wait for these locals to confirm how powerful you are, I will tell you that when it comes to Hilandar, it would be best to ask Milos Stojkovic of Paracino, who was a graduate theologian, who was a trustee of the Dvori for the Pomorava County and Paracin, and he claims that embezzled financial assets obtained from the Hilandar monastery. If that man says something like that by his last name, he's got proof of it, then it's your move to solve it, which is why someone's lying about you, and I don't think that's what this is about. About how much money you embezzled from the state budget, I also know about the dinar, and I can read it to you. I've got about 20 seconds left so I don't break the rules, because I'm asking that rules and procedures be strictly respected, and then I have to act on them first. So in these ten seconds, you've been paid 29,226,389 dinars, and you've justified only 9,012.984. A small difference of twenty millins.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48168	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48169	As far as NATO is concerned, we are very clearly in the position that Serbia does not want to join NATO, we do not remember. We want to have good relations with everyone in the world, but we have no idea that we are joining NATO or any other military alliance, because we believe that the path of Serbia's neutrality is the best that Serbia can have for itself and its citizens. As for those who joined us and were part of our list, which was called Alexander Vukic, who had the name of our president, these people accepted part of our values that we advocated. Anyway, we're fighting for what we think is best for Serbia, but on the other hand you're under the hat of those people who were, you're now a fact-finding part of the coalition they lead. Well, you're Gilas' boss. You're not his boss. Does anyone in Serbia think you're the boss of Dragan Gilas? Really, I can't imagine it, and if Gilas were your boss, it's something that I believe is completely real for people to think. That's why those "I love Brussels" badges will go best just to convince some other people. What it is, I understand that you're trying to be a future former regime. It's a new structure with you that only with a foreign exchange to get the tycoons back. It's about those banks. What is a fact, these people who enter our country, migrants, were both these and those of women and children and old people, many powerless people and sick people, and all of Serbia was a good host. Most of them 99.9% left our country, there are 3,500 left. Were there any men? It was. These stories of state-of-the-art mobile phones were, but in 2015, when richer migrants from Syria came to Serbia and when they used those mobile phones to track the route they were moving. Those people had money. These were educated families from Syria, whose salaries were solid and in Syria, white from war. These men fled, fled, passed through Serbia. When you look at these people who are in migrant camps, look at how they're dressed, look at their property. You'll see that it's a very, very poor layer of people who wouldn't eat that bad food at camp, they'd eat at a restaurant. They have the right to move, not the prisoners of this country. We'd go into the restaurant, order something to eat. No, they eat food at camp because they don't have money. They want to reach Europe, but it is not Serbia that can allow them to enter any country, nor do we think it is normal for someone to choose where they will, what they will and how they will. But the fact that someone, I don't know, in hundreds of thousands will have bought it in Serbia, it's completely incorrect. And they're completely incorrect stories, but there are some villages where the properties are bought out for them. Give the name of a village that a migrant is inhabited in that village. Give me the name of a municipality, a village. Where is it? Where did a country settle in a village, buy a house and give a migrant a house? Where did this happen? What municipality? What village? What house? What village? There's no village. It doesn't exist. There's absolutely no such thing. The state of Serbia to buy the house and give it to the migrant, it does not exist. That didn't happen. It simply didn't happen, but what is true is that we will continue to be good hosts of those people who found themselves in our territory. There's about 3,500 of them right now. One day there's something smaller, one day there's something more, but it's kind of moving between 2,000 and 3,000. It's the number of people who are really present on our people. These people are in camps. We try to take care of these people in every way, because we think we should show a good face, that we should be good hosts, that we should remember that our people in history have been refugees too many times. He has been persecuted many times and that in every country we've crossed, in the long history of our country, of our people, we've been in every country we've been going through, that someone has welcomed us like you suggest we wait for the migrants, I'm not sure there's much left of us. So Serbia must be a country that shows concern for people. At the same time, Serbia will fight, as it does with all the more serious services in the world, so that any terrorist attack does not happen to us, as has not happened, and we will make sure that the security of citizens is absolutely protected.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48170	Now, in accordance with Article 112. I'm setting a three-minute break for the Rules of Procedure. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue in order of the Members of the People's Parliament declared by word. The word has a colleague, Muamer Zukorlic. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48172	I thank the chairman. In my address, I will refer to the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. I think this law is very important, given the catastrophic floods that hit us in 2014. At the time I was in the larger municipality of Vozdovac and I must admit that the floods were surprising, but first of all, to express satisfaction because we worked teamwork, because both the Army and the police and the citizens were all on the ground helping each other. It was the beginning of the new city government's mandate and I believe it was not easy when they were just entering the procedure and were somehow not prepared for it. That's why this law is very important, because, first of all, it refers to prevention. When we talk about prevention, it is, unfortunately, the practice we have had so far, which is these floods that have hit us. It's important here that everything goes down to the local level. It's local self-government that's the most with citizens in the field. We're going to have procedures, we're going to have funding and everything else that's going to be determined for every local self-government, which is very important for carrying out these preventive actions. First of all, I would stress the importance of information that Belgrade's urban municipalities will be treated as individual local self-government, because, for example, the Vozdovac City Municipality has the number of inhabitants as a smaller city in Serbia. That is why it is also important for these procedures and finances to be defined equally. When it comes to some coordination between institutions, strong coordination between police and the military is important. I remember a statement from the city of Zlatibor when he said we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, but we're not worried because both the military and the police are on the ground and they'll stay on the ground. I would also refer to the laws of the judiciary, above all to the bill of free legal aid. I believe that this law is very important, because we are bringing the judiciary closer to the citizens, above all we are restoring the trust of the citizens in the judiciary, which has been violated, unfortunately, in 2009, by cutting down judges. We all remember very well that 730 judges were left without their judicial functions because they were unsuitable to the regime at the time. That can't happen today. It's not something that this government is working on, and for this reason I welcome all the reforms that are going on in the judiciary -- that we invest in infrastructure, we restore the Court of Justice, we rebuild the other institutions. Also, we're investing in personnel. What is important today is that today we have proposed people who are from the profession, who are proposed by the profession, who were formerly in courts and prosecutors and who know very well the work that they should do. The judiciary is vital to our country's development and I believe that you will continue to do well, as you have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48173	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. (Not here) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48174	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, at first I want to thank you, and congratulate you on all the efforts you make so that all of us in Serbia, our children, and why not the people in the environment, live something safer. The hard work and the hard work that people at the Ministry of the Interior have been doing, taking into account, first of all, the fact that in some previous years, and decades, we have been witnessing violent historical events, that, in addition, we have witnessed some, first of all, climatic phenomena that a man can't or can't influence very little, and also some social phenomena that can't be influenced by a much larger society than our own. It is not easy for a team to face today and some senseless accusations we have been hearing already, here, for days in this House and beyond in some media, which are obviously under the influence of wealthy opposition leaders. However, it is good to slowly raise this system to its feet, so I will start by talking about this proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters. Here, as we said, we as a society, first of all, have to work on prevention and prevention, that is. to put ourselves in a better position to warn some things that we might not be able to influence in their very beginning. That's the essence of this law. I've read a little bit of article 15 that talks, first of all, about the need to make a disaster risk assessment. This assessment is required, according to Article 15, to be done by all, starting with the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, then a health institution, all those institutions where the children of companies are located, means all the important factors in the Republic of Serbia, and that is probably what is most important when it comes to the prevention of some disasters in the Republic of Serbia. However, citizens have repeatedly, along with state authorities, been the bearers of protection. We were also witnessing in 2014 in the situation of those great floods. There have been difficult winters, and some other social phenomena, such as the migrant crisis, and I see that in article 36 you finally put that into law and defined all those obligations and rights that citizens have in these situations. I also looked at article 47. I love it very much. I strongly support the view that the jurisdiction of the Republic Emergency Staff is absolutely placed over all local emergency headquarters, because as you will admit, all these events in some potential disasters are the greatest responsibility of the Republic Emergency Staff. The second part of the Traffic Safety Act is good that we will finally put aside the possibility and put aside the possibility of citizens going twice for technical examination, vehicles. However, this provision has never even occurred in reality, and it is good that the costs of that first technical examination are this time transferred, when it comes to new vehicles, to manufacturers and importers, because then, my God, if the car is new, it is technically correct, and yet, if it is not, it will be the cost of the manufacturer or importer, not the driver. That'll reduce some kind of pressure on the citizens themselves. When it comes to this law on the stamping and marking of weapons and ammunition, so any proposal that will positively affect any economic operators in Serbia must be supported among other things, because this law, as you said, provides hope and potential for the Kragujevac Institute, which will be able to operate those weapons-marking services alongside domestic producers, will provide the possibility that this job may work for some foreign producers, can only contribute to the level of foreign exchange inflow in Serbia and perhaps preserve the job. Now, in the end, the Honorable Minister, about all of this, maybe not part of this, I'm going to take the opportunity to commend the work of the Ministry, which, simply, I have to do administrative work on the jobs you're doing. I know you're facing a lot of business when it comes to solving demands for the citizenship of our countrymen everywhere in the world, especially from the environment. It's a number of demands that are measured in hundreds of thousands, a very big job and I'm happy with what citizens are and I really congratulate you, both you and management, how this job is going so far. It is a great deal of importance for a common man, but also in a political sense when it comes to our Corps in the Balkans. So much for these legal proposals coming from the MUP. I've also done a little bit of work on the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor. I have consulted with people who are involved in this process, who are also addressed, with citizens. I've been pulling some stats myself. With all due respect to all the candidates who are contained in this proposal and respect for their personal and professional dignity, indeed, their characteristics are quite good when it comes to all candidates, but I believe that in some cases there may be better suggestions. So I'm going to use the right to challenge some proposals when it comes to choosing a deputy public prosecutor. First of all, when it comes to the election of deputy public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Stari Pazova - Molnar Aleksandar; Deputy Public Prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Ruma - candidate Markovic Marko; Deputy Prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec - Karic Mikica. I will retain the same right when it comes to the choice of judges who are first elected as judges. It is a proposal to elect a judge in the primary court in Prokuplje -- candidate Dara Todorovic. I say, again, with all due respect to all their personal and professional characteristics, I think there may have been some other better suggestions, that they have not found themselves in what the motion today is, so I'm going to ask for another good consideration. I will ask the chairman-in-Office of the individual statement on each of the proposed candidates to make this decision as valid and as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48175	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48176	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens, when it comes to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, it is my immense pleasure to have the opportunity to meet with the two Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who, under absolute control, have the full judiciary in Serbia. The impact on the prosecution, on the judiciary, on the police, is actually in the hands of Minister Kuburovic and Minister Stefanovic. What's controversial, when it comes to this law, is that it's actually inconsistencies with the Constitution itself. If in Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that personal data cannot be used and misused in any way, then this law certainly makes it possible for those in the interest. In Article 40. The bill states that personality data are no longer used in accordance with the law but, Mr. Stefanovic, in accordance with arbitrary opinions and views, for example, BIA Director Mr. Gasic, as the Serbian Progressive Party calls him – Bata, which is increasingly and more frequently happening in the daily life of Serbian citizens, that a woman who is rebelling against poor health services in one health home, the next day her personal data will be on the cover of "Informer". When one of the tweeters tweets something against this government, it happens that a picture from the Interior Ministry appears on a Twitter account of one of the members of the SNS, and many other examples. But what is particularly worrying, and what you are familiar with, even though I have personally introduced you to this situation, is that we are very concerned that when a senior BIA official, we assume, using personality data, comes into the situation to publicly pronounce at a meeting where your prime minister, Mrs Brnabic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is in her presence, that part of the opposition is part of the NGO sector and part of the media that poses a threat to Serbia's national security. You told me, just over two weeks ago, that you'd be asking around, that you'd be seeing the director of BIA, that you'd be informing the public in due time, since you were the president of the National Assembly and you know very well the procedure, you know the Rules of Procedure, and you know that you are here to answer to the MPs. Every question and every promise and every Rules of Procedure you are obliged to answer, in accordance with the regulations. You didn't do it. I don't know if you called your BIA-led party colleague to ask him why Marko Parezenovic said that part of the media, part of the union, is part of the NGO's sector, part of the opposition, is a threat to Serbia's national security? Based on what research? Are those the people who followed the opposition, the journalists, part of the NGO sector? Are these the people who are listening to us sitting as opposition MPs in this House? You are obliged to answer that, because I have asked you as a member of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, where you, of course, attend as a minister and you are obliged to answer every asked question. I don't know how there is no threat to Serbia's national security, for example, the "National Avant-garde", Mr. Stefanovic, as an NGO that you give political support to as a party in power, led by a man financed by the Russian Federation's Foreign Ministry?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48177	Comrade Bozovic, I am asking you to talk about the laws that are on the agenda. (Balsa Bozovic: I'm talking about a law that's on the agenda, you're not listening to me. No, I'm a great listener... (Balsa Bozovic: You don't understand what I mean. I understand perfectly what you want, but that doesn’t go away with me. I'm a little more experienced than you, my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48178	Give me back my word. Thank you. So I know that these are issues that are being raised by the authorities, I know that these are issues that are very annoying to the ruling majority, and even to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but it is my obligation on behalf of the citizens who chose me not to let such a thing go unnoticed. So, why and in what way, when it comes to BIA personality data or tomorrow, some detective agency can use all of us's data voluntarily and be on the front pages of "Informer" and various tabloids, and on the other hand, organisations financed by the Russian Federation pose absolutely no danger to Serbia's national security? Organizations calling on the senior BIA official to speak in the presence of the Prime Minister about how we are some traitors and you have promised as interior minister, why I am speaking to you, because unlike Nela Kuburovic, who is the minister of justice, you are not only the minister of the interior and not only someone who has the greatest influence on the SNS, unlike Dacic, who is formally deputy prime minister, you are the essential prime minister in this government. You're the only man...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48179	Comrade Bozovic, you obviously mean in your discussion you want to call all parliamentary groups, political parties and as much as possible... (Balsa Bozovic: Why are you interrupting me? ) (The People's MP Maja Vidinovic throws out of place. ) Fellow Members Vidinović, I give you a warning, because I am just explaining why I interrupted Mr Balša Bozovic in his discussion, so please allow me to do so. So, colleague Bozovic, you are trying to challenge in your discussion as many replicas as possible in this room with your discussion, because you mentioned both SNS and Ms. Minister Nelu Kuburović and SPS, or its president, I am now telling you this way of discussion does not go away with me. I know that you want to challenge as much controversy here as possible to get the reward time, but in this case at least while I'm presidencies won't pass. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48180	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Don't be angry, but you can't write me speeches. So, I'm like a folk MP free to talk about whatever... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48181	You can't talk about anything you want. The rules of the Rules of Procedure are that you can only talk about the subject of the agenda. If I'm wrong, you really have a big problem explaining to me what connection to the proposed laws has to the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic? You just wanted the SPS to respond to your discussion and ask for the right to replication, so you would answer to them, they to you, etc. (Balsa Bozovic: You have misunderstood the essence of my speech. No, no, no, A colleague of Bozovic's... (Balsa Bozovic: Don't be angry. Give me back my word, I want to continue. I'm not mad at you, you can't piss me off, but I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and agenda topics and discuss the points that are on the agenda. A certain width can, but don't abuse it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48182	So, I repeat once again to Mr Stefanovic, and why I am talking to you, I said so, so I was interrupted by Mr Arsic because it is obviously not true that you are the most powerful man in the SNS, so after Alexander Vukic, that's what I wanted to say, it is understood, of course, that what is important to you is that since you are among other things directed at how parliament works, so I assume that you too condemn the way Arsic is running today's session, I asked the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, this question, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. She did not answer me within two weeks, and she was sitting at a meeting, or stands organised by the National Avant-garde. So, what's the essential question is, is that by not answering that question, you leave the possibility, now and by changing this law, that we feel insecure in our business, that we have to turn around when we go out on the street, that we're supposed to be afraid if a citizen recognizes us in some of our actions, that we're traitors to Serbia, that we're a threat to national security, so God forbid something happens on the street? I would remind you that Oliver Ivanovic was killed as one of the leaders of the opposition in Serbia and that it is very important that we do not share anything else with what will be possible today with the abuse of this member of this law, Article 40 and Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that you will be able to abuse personal data from Serbian citizens in order to fight politically. This is what is fundamentally illegal and unconstitutional and not only unethical and immoral, this is what poses a danger and deepens fear among Serbian citizens. I asked you to answer me as Minister, and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, when Anna Brnabic may not be able to say anything about it, she may not be authorized, perhaps, as she said at the outset, has no political capacity in this government, but you have it and it is quite certain, in front of Alexander Vukic and SNS. Therefore, for this reason, I want you to answer my question – did you ask Bata Gasic, what you call him, why Marko Parezenović, and on which basis, determined part of the opposition, part of the NGO sector, to represent, and part of the media, the danger to Serbia and what data, and if that is not true what he said, it was his personal opinion, why is this man still on his job today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48183	Comrade Orlic, on what grounds do you want the word? Right on the line. All right. The first word is Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48184	Well, unfortunately, it seems to me that one part of the people who discuss here don't see part of their own behavior in public, social networks and what they do and what degree it goes to. I want to tell you that I'm surprised that you just don't notice, or pretend you don't see, the satanization of people who think differently. Their pictures are being posted online. They're called pig junta, criminals, people are called to beat them in the street, people are called on to change power, to remember them well, to have to hang out. Prosecutors and judges are called on, their names are published on the internet when a decision is made that does not like those people of the Gilas coalition, Jeremic, Obradovic, Jankovic and all others who are and who are not, are called and said - we remember you. I'm sorry, imagine if I were a judge who passed a verdict that I didn't like, posted on my Twitter account or something -- I remembered this judge. The whole world would rise, and if I wasn't even a state official, if I were an ordinary citizen, but because I'm on the other side, because I don't think the same way. Now, if I thought like them, if I were on that political side, that would be fine. And it's okay to publish pictures of people standing on the stands of political parties or who only they assume from their public action that they are on any political side, publish images of these people on the Internet and invite people to do them any harm. They inspire hatred for these people, and it happens every day, every day it happens. It's not an isolated incident, it happens every day. Now, that's what's very dangerous, and that's what the people who come forward here on behalf of this alliance won't notice. It doesn't hurt them. The death of Ranko Panic, who was killed in 2008, by the authorities, because he had a different opinion, does not hurt. Do you know how many times they mentioned the name of Ranko Panic? Zero times, because Ranko Panic's life isn't worth it. Why this man should be mentioned, so he was on the other side, he thought differently. The fact that he was killed by someone who was then in the name of the government on the street, the government sent and the one who was in the name of the government on the street kicked him out and that man died in the hospital after that kicking, that's fine, because Ranko Panic thought differently, and because he thought otherwise, what's wrong with killing him. At the time of Aleksandar Vukic, Ranko Panic was killed, at the time of their government, Ranko Panic was killed, when they were all and everyone in Serbia and when they determined who would be a billionaire and how Miskovic would build beautifully in Serbia, live and get rich and all of them along with him and at the time of the murder, both Ranko Panic and journalists were killed. I'm sorry, Milan Pantic wasn't killed at the time of our government. And do you know who discovered the murderers of Ranko Panic? We do. They weren't interested in it for many years. The prosecutions, the courts, the investigation teams, it didn't matter at the time. They didn't want to mention days, days and days. And respond to Mr Bozovic – submit a criminal report. It is, unfortunately, an answer that symbolizes the level of relationship that you are essentially told I don't care about this man's life. There's not even any compassion. No, file a criminal report. Now, that's what's problematic and what I see as a problem, that there are always these divisions. It's bad when anyone's threatened. But, you know, we didn't beat up Goca Taker and Maru Dragovic. It wasn't one of the SNS people who did it. That's what happened at the Dverry rally. Why? Well, as part of the inspiration of the daily outpouring of hate against people. What you said about Alexander Vukic, so I can no longer say what was said during one day, not during the six years he killed his own child, which was perhaps the most monstrous. (Alexandra Jerkov: Who said that? It was in the paper, it was written in the paper. From the kind of stuff that was written for Wolf, to the fact that the dictator, the killer, is a criminal, every day. I'm sorry, but what do those wonderful words about Alexander Wolfie inspire each and every one of us to the people, love? What do they inspire? They inspire it that perhaps, as Mr Bozovic says, one of those people thinks they should do something about it, when these people say, they believe, one part of the people, not too big, but one part of the people believes in those words and can take matters into their own hands. I was so experienced that a man came in front of my house and said he was shooting at my house. That's how it came to him. So what's the problem, what's that kind of satanization of everyone who thinks differently is done every day. Here, even some of these NGOs, I like this "National Avant-garde" more and more, right to tell you, I wasn't at that conference, about what it was, and now I'm sorry I wasn't, because obviously they're hurting something. How can someone bother because they have a different attitude, if we want democracy? Great, I don't like their attitude, so what now? How many NGOs I don't like, so now I have to run a campaign here in the Assembly against these NGOs, talk about them, satanize them, talk about NATO being mercenaries, etc.? Finally, the party's president, DS then, Mr. Bojan Pajtic publicly as DS president, advocated Serbia's entry into NATO in public 2016, was Mr. Balsa Bozovic there, all of them from their party. None of that statement has ever been fenced, no one has said otherwise, and their weed is to accept that Serbia is part of NATO. I see, this power and SNS has only one love, a love for Serbia. We're not interested in anyone else. And we do not advocate that Serbia be neither part of NATO nor near nor part of any other bloc in the east. We do not want Serbia to be block-oriented, involved or member, point. We don't care about that. We have the same archaic and what our president says in Moscow, and what he says in Brussels and Washington is exactly the same. (Balsa Bozovic: What about Marko Parezenović? ) ) Now that we've reached Mark Parezanovic, so we've done the best possible thing, we've brought the director of BIA Mr. Gasic and Mark Parezovic to this house after that statement. They joined the National Assembly, the Security Control Committee, which should answer those questions, both Mr. Parezanovic and Mr. Gasic after a statement. What more do these people need to do? To be exposed to the questions of the Messengers of the people, that they may receive the right of all to ask them what they have in mind? And now there is a prolonged Satanization of Mark Parezanovic, a man who is a professional of the service. Let it go, Mark Parezovic's people. Don't expose these people to a public lynching. These people are fighting for the safety of our country. These are people who work at the BIA long before, long before we were ever in power. These people are fighting for Serbia's security. They were given the opportunity to come to the Committee, to ask these questions. A rewarding question arises why did they not take advantage of the opportunity when Mr Gasic and Mr Parezanovic were in the Assembly? It was an ideal opportunity to ask them these questions. I think that's best, because our board, the parent board that I belong to, the Committee on Home Affairs and Defence, can't ask questions, because according to the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Security Control is responsible for working with the security services, asking questions from their work. Mr. Gasic and Mr. Parezovic, people came in, filed a report, answered questions, I don't know what more they could have done? I don't know what we should do. Should we take Mark Parezanovic and Bata Gasic to the Terrace to shoot 'em because they don't like 'em? That's scandalous. We'll never do that. So we want to talk to everyone about security. (Balsa Bozovic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48185	Don't get to the minister anymore, pal Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48186	So, let's talk security, talk about what can be done. After all, there are important laws ahead of us, and when I was an MP for this House, we always talked about the essence. Was there any discourse, yes, did you, of course... The debate should be focused on what the laws are. Unfortunately, I say again, Satanizing everyone who thinks differently, and then you say, you're complaining about someone talking about you somewhere, and you're doing the same thing all the time. Well, that's scandalous. So, when you want to promote some social value, go away. Stop doing that. You stop inspiring that kind of feeling, and then you get a response from other citizens. You can't call people the ugliest names, you can't post them pictures on the Internet, in the media, calling for these people to experience who knows what kind of unpleasantness, maybe even physical violence, just because these people have different opinions. It's a matter that's very important in our public, and it has to be accepted. Anyone who thinks everything is allowed – not. There's something, usually people say, let them handle it, I don't know, criminal charges, come on this, come on that. Not everything is written in the letter of the law, you must, as someone who carries a certain responsibility for a spoken public word, as a public office bearer, as a MP, a minister, however, have to accept that you have responsibility for what you say and for what you inspire others to say. When such things are said in this House, it doesn't have to be surprising what it does to ordinary people. Often those who do so are people who belong to certain political structures and these political structures know very well why they are doing it. But the same thing... (Balsa Bozovic: So we are traitors. That's one word that often, no one ever called them traitors. These words are used because they need to inspire a negative feeling in a part of the citizens, even though no one has ever called them that name, because they think it will create a counterproduct and then here we are called traitors. No one calls you gentlemen traitors. So when we talk about it, we can talk about how many billions of dinars he took, who brought Big Brother to RTS, and we know it was Dragan Djilas, and now his latest coalition partner, Mr. Obradovic. These are the social values that the coalition advocates. We can talk about it, but the things that didn't happen, the things that didn't happen, I don't think it's worth saying when they didn't happen. Once again I say, you had a chance to ask all the questions, I'm sorry that people when they were in the O.R., when they were in the Assembly, when they were on the board, no one came to ask them those questions. I am also confident at the next session of the Committee, when Mr. Gasic is there, you will have the opportunity to ask him all the questions you want. I am fully confident and able by the BIA to be a firm defence of Serbia's security and I am fully convinced that the director and all his associates can provide answers to all the questions they are asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48187	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48188	Article 107(1) So, Mr. Stefanovic, Mr. Arsic, mentioned on several occasions that the opposition was not on the board to ask Mr. Gasic whether it poses a threat to national security or not. That's not really true. Because the Committee, Mr Arsic, was closed to the public for security and the opposition was not invited to participate publicly in the debate on the subject. Under number two, I also want you to know, as you know, Mr. Parezovic, on behalf of BIA, on behalf of Bratislav Gasic, has made public the accusation that the opposition is a threat to national security. We also expect citizens to be publicly told whether it is true or not, and Mr Stefanovic is on the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, which is a record, a recording, a stenogram, promised me that in the next two days, two weeks, it would be two weeks, to inform me as a MP, and I to the public, which is why Parezovic claimed that individuals from the opposition, individual media and part of the NGO are a danger to Serbia's national security. Today it was just avoiding answers, false accusations and slanders at the expense of those sitting in parliament doing business on behalf of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48189	My colleague Bozovic, you are now estimating yourself, based on this answer, what you will turn out to be. The Security Control Committee is like any other assembly committee or working body, call whatever you want. Members of that committee shall be proportionate to how many MPs they win in the elections, or how many MPs they have in the parliamentary club. The Rules of Procedure itself stipulates that, due to access to the secret information of the committee's session, they will be closed to the public. (Balsa Bozovic: We were publicly said to be traitors. A colleague of Christmas, please don't interrupt me. Your representatives, just a moment to check, on that committee, whether the sessions were present I don't know, but I do know that Mr. Milojic is a member of that committee. So there was an opposition. So now you're... (Balsa Bozovic: It is not true. She had a chance. I'm not getting into any trouble whether they wanted to use their rights or not. Next time, please, when you decide to advertise the Rules of Procedure or the violation of the Rules of Procedure, take care of what you say. So they also have the right of representatives, i.e. MPs who are members of the Committee, who do not support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to attend the Security Service Control Committee if they are members of the Committee or deputies of the Committee. If you were a bit longer an MP, you'd know it. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Bosko Obradovic: He mentioned me three times. How come I don't have a right? It's not in a negative context, Mr. Radovic. The word is Marija Obradović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48190	Thank you, Chairman Arsic. You gave the creamworth to keep me going in that context, when it comes to rules and procedures. The third time today during today's day I appear to undo what has been told a lie. As long as we keep telling the citizens that what they hear from the MPs of certain opposition is persistently false, not to say a harsh word. I am chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee for the fifth year in the Serbian Assembly, a member of the Security Control Committee. I regularly appear at every session. For those people who do not know, and it is very simple, all meetings of the Security Control Committee are closed and take place in a separate room that is particularly protected, because information and data that cannot be made available to the public except for members of the Committee who have special certificates for access to different degrees of state secrets, strictly confidential, confidential, etc. will not bother the public. Those people who don't have certifications in case someone shows up now, if they entered the certification process, fill out the questionnaires and start checking, they also have the right to attend those committees. There is no reason for any member of the Committee, and there are 17 and 17 deputies on the Security Control Committee, nine on the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. There's no reason they shouldn't be here. Why aren't they coming? Because it's closed to the public, because they're not interested in answers, they're interested in making a circus in the media that's being transferred. The moment it's open to the public, as it happens on the defense and home affairs committees, I don't close every session, because I like the public to attend and hear what's going on, what's the score of the Ministry of Defense, but when I have to close the defense session, rarely who's coming, because they don't want to deal with the essence, they don't want answers, they want a circus in the media, and even when they get space in the open-session media, they don't really talk about the essence, because they don't know and they don't want to talk about it. That is why I am sorry that they are no longer in the media, because journalists must convey something that is essential work in parliament, not just insulting MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48191	Thank you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48192	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 27. Mr. Arsic, this assembly is called the National Assembly. So it's a congregation that represents citizens, i.e. People. It's in her name, and there's nothing here to be secret. This is not your private assembly so you can say – no this is secret because it is not in the interest of the ruling majority to make this public. No, it's public here. This is a central political institution, this is a political arena here, and you can't keep secrets. You can't publicly accuse someone of being a threat to national security, and then secretly announce, in closed walls, that nothing comes out, what he was actually going to say. No, he said that on national frequency. He said certain opposition leaders are a threat to national security. He said that some media and journalists are a threat to national security, and then the cover of "Ilustrana politika" which he calls dogs and part of the media calls dogs. More specifically NIN, ‘Time’ and ‘Today’. You didn't mention or allow anyone to hear who killed a lawyer a few months ago, who killed himself in the streets, who's the famous mute, who are people who kill each other every day and die on the streets of Serbia. You want to charge some of the authorities that were before you? What matters, Mr. Arsic, please, there must be no secrets here. Everything has to be transparent, and you can't keep secrets. This is the National Assembly of Citizens, not the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48193	My colleague Bozovic, I didn't write this Rules of Procedure. I've exempted myself from writing this Rules of Procedure. I was in the task force. (Radoslav Milojic: We didn't write either. You guys really want to celebrate today, too? This Rules of Procedure states that the meetings of the Security Control Committee are closed to the public. I didn't make it up, and neither did this parliamentary majority. If it is your problem to participate in the work of the National Assembly, as a MP and representative of the citizens, without being in front of the cameras and journalists, then I do not think you are doing your post in full capacity. Do you want the National Assembly to declare that the Rules of Procedure's injury in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48194	Member of the 103rd, Mr. Chairman. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I called before Orlic. ( ) Feel free to calm down this unarticulated one who yells. This was an abuse of the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, obvious. So obvious that I think you're under obligation to take the time to argue with a man who obviously hasn't come forward to show us how he doesn't understand the Rules of Procedure, but I agree that he doesn't understand anything chronically. He did this for a classic abuse. So it's an obligation to take two minutes of this opportunity and that's what I'm asking. He mentioned closing sessions in the Rules of Procedure that they brought themselves, you noticed that well, but it was necessary to intervene when he mentioned Mr Gasic. He mentioned it as a party official, and he knows well, they have heard more than once that Mr. Gasic has frozen all party activities. He heard it well, and he knows that Mr. Gasic is doing an important job for the Republic of Serbia, and I have been trying all day to find the 2008 news when they chose Sasa Vukadinovic and in the news that declares he was elected, announcing a man who comes to the post of BIA director as a party official of DS. I can't find any news all day, maybe they have one, which says he's given up on politics, or he's stopped these activities while he's doing business at the BIA. I can't find a single one, but I found these and these are publicly available data, that they used the BIA system and when our MPs listened to it, trying to get some sensitive information about Alexander Vukic, but they were free because we never dealt with these things that they were dealing with, that they abused the BIA and the case I was talking about yesterday when they were setting up judges and prosecutors, when their presidents of the municipal committees signed recommendations, when Serbia informed the public that they were members of the BIA on the orders of DS confidential data on their municipal boards. That's what people have confirmed in the highest place. Those were abuses. Furthermore, they mention some networks and some betrayals, mentioning the media, I, on the website of their people's party, find the news that what they want is to prevent at all costs from being betrayed by Aleksandar Vukic on KIM. We have never branded any of them with one word as traitors. It's an official position, it's on their site, and then it's signed by both the president and the vice president and vice president, he stamps us as traitors. They're talking about the media, here's the media, to see how in their media you can write about Alexander Vukic as much as you like, here's how Director of Gilas and School TV can spit Alexander Vukic on Miskovic's board and what is not clear to them today. Where are our abuses, where are their freedoms?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48195	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48196	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, you have injured Article 108, 109, although I appreciate your tolerance. You should've warned Mr. Bozovic, because it's mostly used in lies. It's about an MP who's sensitive to some insults, and now I'm going to show you how sensitive he is. This is the tweet of that great democratic gromada of Balša Bozovic, where my little bits of my own twice as old are written by the apes. They're these nice, sophisticated fellow Serbs, etc. So, no lies, no fraud. Furthermore, he advocates the protection of journalists, he is against violence, but they do not mind writing – the bandits are ready, as you spend the last days of scum. Pointed to Vukic, Vukicevic, "Informer", Djukanovic and my little ones. Furthermore, I will also read the tweet of the great mountainess Slavislavi Lekic. So these are the ones that are sensitive. I'm not a cable operator, I wasn't a media owner, I'm not 100 million, I'm not a advertiser, I didn't give NUNS money like Dragan Djilas did, so Slavisa Lekic wrote – Marijan Risticevic is in "The Questioner", Bujke, he can resign coldly, he succeeded in failing to bring a donkey into the RTS studio. Let's move on, see how sensitive your organisms are. Vučić and Vučićevic, Risticevic, Mitrovica – have you already chosen the bandits you want to hang from? Is that the talk of tolerance they stand for? Let's move on, when it comes to journalists who have been evaluated by dogs. It is a product of DS, Slavisa Lekić – when I appeal to Vukić to tie the dogs, I don't mean Vučićevic, he's a dog, November 2015. The fact that Balša Bozovic is not on some committees, I suggest you keep the committees on the Maldives or on some other white-world islands.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48197	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48198	Thank you, Chairman, indeed a harshly broken member of the 104th Rules of Procedure who says - if someone is insultingly expressing himself about the People's MP... (Vladimir Orlic: That was, Mary asked 104) Can I go on or what? Am I right or not to talk? Or will the SNS determine who is speaking in the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48199	Colleginica Obradović, the same name as you, has already been advertised by Article 104. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48200	Great, then Article 27. Is he okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48201	27 is a colleague of Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48202	Maybe 107, and that was it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48203	I don't remember any article 107, so take your chances.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48204	Thank you. So, Mr. Chairman, if the ruling majority is given the right to speak, the dignity of the National Assembly clearly says that the same right should be given to the opposition. You, if I am not mistaken, interrupted the debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when the right to reply had several fellow MPs from the opposition. I don't know where you get that right to end the debate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when the opposition comes in line to replicate. In particular, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who has now fled this session, has mentioned me three times by name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48205	Hey, pal, don't say that. Mr. Stefanovic is here, he's not afraid of you. He's not in the O.R. right now, but you're coming with me not with...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48206	I don't know what he's run away from, so you make that clear. All right, let me get back to you. So you are witnesses and everyone has seen and heard in a direct transmission, that Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic has mentioned me three times by the name and last name of Bosko Obradovic, twice as Dveri. He said something that I was kidnapping, that I was stealing something, that I was getting rich at the expense of Serbian citizens, that I was, I don't know, doing something that was against the law. So, is it normal that I can't get a regular two minutes to respond to such monstrous lies and slanders? Is it normal to disable and stifle the voice of the opposition? I'm just looking for the right that follows me by this Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to have the right to answer. What would it be like if I talked, I don't know, about the marijuana fields behind which Marija Obradovic stands? Is that the level of conversation we need to talk about? [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48208	I'm a colleague of Ododovic's. (Bosko Obradovic: Well, that's the level, Mr Arsic. ) Let me explain the level to you, since you're constantly demanding some level. We started the session around 10 o'clock. A colleague who spoke, or a colleague who spoke before you, spoke for about 10 minutes, means 10 and 10. After that, you had 20 minutes, that was 10 and 30 hours. Everything else was your controversy with ministers or fellow MPs from other parliamentary groups. Now, tell me, in an hour you've had controversy with both ministers and MPs, and I don't allow you to speak in the National Assembly? (Bosko Obradovic: Can I finish? ) Can't finish, can you just make a statement if you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about your injury to the Rules of Procedure? (Bosko Obradovic: Of course. ) It will come out. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48209	Thank you. We have heard serious insults here that the Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and I are fully in control of the judiciary and the judiciary and the prosecution. We just haven't gotten an explanation for how we control it yet. Apparently, the form that existed until 2012, they think it continues to apply when judges and prosecutors are elected by party committees, when the minister of justice invites members of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary to attend meetings daily, when the president of the state, Mr Boris Tadic, calls for meetings and the President of the Constitutional Court and the President of the Supreme Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor to give them an order on how to implement the general re-election. There's no such thing today. You probably can't believe it, but the choice of judges and prosecutors is not under the pressure of the Justice Department and I believe that they can also confirm to you members of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, nor does anyone invite them to the Ministry to give them directives on who should be elected by candidates. A large number of sessions, even where the minister of justice does not attend when the election of judges and deputy public prosecutors is being held, and I believe that both the deputy prosecutors and judges who participate in these bodies make the choice in a professional way and choose the best candidates, not candidates who are similar to the appropriate political party. You're talking about pressures on the judiciary, and just a few days ago, right on your warrant, Facebook, there was a threat to senior public prosecutor Natasa Krinakapic, where he stands explicitly - we remember. I don't know how else to understand it, but it's like pressure or a threat. Also, we have ten days in the media that Gilas points out the name of the judge who acted in a lawsuit against the SNS, where the judge who made the decision in accordance with the Law on Prosecution, and I believe that a colleague who graduated from the same university as me, knows very well about one of the basic institutes in the Law on Paritial Procedure, which is a request for a return to the previous situation that is almost used in each case in a litigation procedure. You are talking about pressures, and you forget that it was BIA and how it was used in the re-election process of judges, and it's not something I'm saying, it's also confirmed by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, who made a statement in the media, that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors, based on the information he received, has refused. That was illegal data delivery. Let me remind you that there was also a regulation at the time that allowed BIA to just run a check on candidates who were admitted to work in courts and prosecutors. Unfortunately, your regulation was also quickly abolished, since you have just passed the Data Protection Act in 2009, where you are just limiting how data is controlled and processed when there is no consent of a natural person. That provision still exists in Article 13 of the applicable law, but fortunately the Constitutional Court reacted in time, because you allowed this processing of data to be restricted, not only by law, but also by sublaw. The Constitutional Court has cassed such a provision, so it is impossible to restrict the protection of the right by sublegal acts, i.e. the processing of personal data. What I want to point out is, above all, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, which the Republic of Serbia adopts fully in accordance with the EU regulation and directive. Which means that today we have a bill that is fully in line with EU rules and we will have a law with provisions that are identical in all Member States. Does this mean that every Member State is legalizing abuse in the exchange of data? I'd like to see if that's the case in other countries. What's also important when we talk about Article 40, which provides for certain restrictions, and I believe that you know, although the Constitution prescribes some right, it can only be limited by law. It is precisely this law that limits the situations in which certain rights are not applied, and it is tax-listed which are the situations, which are precisely related to the processing, to the investigation, to the conduct of criminal proceedings in matters of security, national security and the defence of the country. Another thing that is the curiosity of this law in relation to EU member states, the directive, and the regulation adopted by the EU do not apply to security services. This time this law will apply to the BIA. It was the members of the task force that were representatives of the BIA, who agreed to regulate their work by this law. So, the general regime applicable to all other bodies, this law will apply to the BIA, and we will finally know who is processing the data, how it treats them, and above all, it gives citizens a much greater protection and in terms of procedural, in which way they can verify whether their rights are compromised or not, and how they can achieve judicial protection if their rights are violated. Also, the same provision that exists now in the bill, there is also a law on free access to information of public importance, I don't know how you didn't rebel against such a provision precisely in the law that you were also making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48210	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48211	Article 112 is a member of the Rules of Procedure with which this coordinator of the Đilas tycoon-Ljotić coalition had a problem. He was applied in the afternoon debate, right, already. That something didn't understand what it was, I didn't realize the tragic fact that I didn't get the right to a replica, because it was an application of Article 112. Him, he says, that's a terrible thing to do, and I'm pointing to that member and this time. So it's absolutely unacceptable for a man to be allowed here for two and a half minutes directly accusing of the terrible, disgusting content of the tabloids, which they always used, and the newspaper is called the "Tabloid", which he and his group always used when they attacked here in the most banal, in the most disgusting way possible and Alexander Vukic and the people of the SNS, to do it again. That's what his Nogo loved best. You know who he is. It is the one who called for the hanging of Aleksandar Vukic and Ana Brnabić, so now it looks like they've put him away a little bit, not to poke the eyes of the public, and now, personally, Bosko Obradovic. These contents from that "Tabloid" disgusting, used here and mentioned our folk letter. He's using the contents of that "Tabloid" here, that's the magazine, that's the newspaper, after some of the people here have been seduced, as they first hear in life, who accused Alexander Vukic of killing a child. Now, the team is being used, it's you and it's your picture and opportunity. And those who are relieved, for the first time hear. Those who do and use it are your coordinators. Congratulations on your choice. They were talking about freedom. I showed nice, here's how there's no freedom today. This is how the director of Gilasov and Šolak's TV programs on the front page of Miskovic's newspapers can't talk about Alexander Vukic's thoughts. Here's how no one can mount it in your magazines. There you are on the Internet, on which you have been denied some freedom, you yourself, called for a coup, to arrest Alexander Vukic by the military and police. There's you right there next to yours for doing your Zeljko Vesenović bravely, who called for rape. That's how much you don't have on the Internet, and you can't do what comes to your mind. They said something about running away. Since they are, and because they know that the people see them very well and recognize them as the worst of the worst, they will, you know, Mr. Chairman, flee from the election in Kladovo, from the election in Doljevac, because they cannot find two people to put them on the list, let alone sign them. I'd like to recommend Article 112 one more time. We're working here, we don't waste time on those who don't know what their purpose is, and we don't want to stay here, except to deal with these tabloids and to show who they are and what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48212	I understand, colleague Orlic. In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a three-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) We continue to work, colleague Bozovic. You have to go with Mr. Arsic when he gets back to the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48214	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, once again the previous speaker, I think of the previous speaker on the list, who is just leaving the hall, has been tasked by his boss to today, in every way he knows and knows, attack Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia and the Minister and the SNS. You know how that works? Jima Gilas, it's the head of this whole sad group across from us, giving day-to-day tasks that they have to perform, whether they like it or not, and deliberately, chairing them, I don't call them the opposition, because the opposition doesn't behave the way they behave. You know, the opposition, as such, is looking forward to some elections, the opposition is looking forward to elections, desiring elections, and this one is calling the opposition running away from the election as the devil of the cross, as the people say. God forbid there's a election, just don't let God make any choices. And what are you running from the election? Why don't you give us a ride? Here, you're saying we're not good, nothing's wrong, we're the worst government. Here, change us at the election. Here's a chance, now there's going to be elections in four local self-governments in December, here's a chance for you, run for office, change for us when we're not good, when we're the worst government, you have a chance for that. But he won't. They won't, Chairman, because they can't even find the candidates. They can't even find the candidates, let alone the signatures. Then comes the story of the boycott. Then we'll boycott these elections, there's no freedom of the media, we'll suppress them, there's no law, and that's their law. Well, we haven't changed those laws, they're their laws. They brought them in, and now they're no good. So the previous speaker here made a number of different accusations for minutes, who knows what he was talking about, some completely flat and incorrect data. But I'm surprised that he said that, given that the MP who is a member of the Assembly's Defence and Home Affairs Committee has access to regular reports on the work of the Ministry of the Interior on a three-month basis, on a six-month level, on an annual basis. In the end, he did not say anything about the results of the Ministry of the Interior, therefore, nor about the results of the fight against organised crime, nor about the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings, nor about drug trafficking and trafficking, nor about the fight against economic crime, therefore, the fight against corruption, the abuse of official office, the fight against the gray economy, nor about the protection and rescue of emergency situations, especially when it comes to the Emergency Sector, which, among other things, we are discussing today. You know, when the Home Office gets new vehicles for the Emergency Sector, when it gets new equipment, when it gets new equipment, it doesn't matter to them, it's not even news in their media. It's of second-rate importance, then, and aside from that we haven't heard anything about the laws themselves. Why am I saying all this, Mr. Chairman? Because of the political moment we're in. Because it is clear that a broad front has formed in Serbia, therefore, it is a broad front, but with the same task, and in that broad front, different people have different tasks and different roles. So some pretend that the opposition, some pretend to be journalists, independent journalists, some act in that union front, and some pretend to be independent authorities, like that unfortunate Rodoljub Šabić, but with the same task, with one single task, which is how at any cost and in any way possible to attack SNS and Alexander Vukic, and do so every day on those media outlets, on the N1, "Today", NIN, "Time" and what's left of their media. Coli Orlic had just shown the headlines of some of these media and the embarrassing images we could see, and I'm going to remind you of another front page, because I think it's the ideal opportunity for this, and I'm asking the question – in which country in Europe can on the cover of one Sunday's tabloid come out of a picture of the Minister of Interior's father, with the most monstrous charge and no hair on their heads is missing because of all this? Then we suppress them, then they don't have freedom of expression, there's no freedom of the media, and every day in their media, it's an attack on government members, an attack on Alexander Vukic, an attack on the SNS. For all of these reasons that I have said, but also for all of those benefits that these laws will bring, and what has been well spoken of by the authorised representative of the SNS, I want to support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48215	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising Article 106, and I'd like to ask you a question in accordance with that article - Do you have any lists and names of MPs in front of you? Do you know that we all belong to the DS MP group? Do you know that? Whose boss is Goran Ciric? If you can answer that and stop... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48217	I'll answer you, just point out how I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48218	And to stop this kind of flatulence. We don't have a boss in the DS, we don't have a boss, we don't have a boss, we don't have one of those before, and either one of us is going to let that happen, or someone's going to act like that, whether they come from the government or from the opposition. As the DS Parliament Club has condemned and calls for no rape and calls for hanging, as we condemn what the ruling majority is doing, we also condemn what members of each opposition are doing, regardless of religious, national and political membership. We need consistency. And, I ask you to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not allow charges and things with which no one from the DS Parliament Club has anything to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48219	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48220	Mr Marinkovic, it's worth considering applying a member of 103rd and this time. I don't insist, you will make your own decision as you think it's the right thing to do, which is why I'm not asking to vote, but this was an abuse, and that's why you could take the time. I honestly thought that the apostle had come forward because he wanted to explain that he was justifiably prevented from attending this session of the Security Service Control Committee, which we talked about today, which he was properly invited to, could attend as well as everyone else, to help his colleagues who did not understand how it worked, but he did not seem to report for it. So my hopes are going down because of what he's reported for, as he says. To be clear, no one's done anything wrong on our side. So, we just pointed out the fact that Mr. Kenojčić's party, DS, is now in the alliance that brings together Dragan Djilas, whose co-ordinator is Bosko Obradovic, right? So that's the facts. You're proud of it, I suppose you're going in the stands together, the president of your Lutovac, sitting side by side with Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Gilas. Bosko Obradovic boasts that he is your co-ordinator. I can understand that someone is personally dissatisfied with it, but that doesn't mean that we've done anything wrong. So, we only told the truth when we mentioned, Dragan Gilas has here his co-ordinator Bosko Obradović – Ljoticevic, who is in charge of conducting and coordinating all MPs who belong to his group. We call it tycoon-lyotic, the people recognize her that way. If the gentleman doesn't recognize her that way, I don't know. But to be clear, whatever he personally thinks, whatever he personally disagrees with, his political party shares that value. So, when Veselinovic says those disgusting things he said, and his party doesn't invite Veselinovic to take responsibility, but keeps him to chair their alliance, then you agreed. When you're not asking the Dwri to be thrown out after that hanging call, you've accepted it, with more or less noise, but you've accepted those things. So, to make it clear to everyone where they are and what they share, they didn't want to, I end up, and as for the need to explain something, the next time he feels it, let him first explain what was related to the Committee on Service Control. I'm sure he didn't get scared of Mr. Gasic, so he avoided coming. That's certainly not an accident.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48221	Thank you, colleague Orlic. I really can't get out of this place anymore, and I can't figure out who belongs to what alliance, whether it's in the alliance, we don't really care about it here. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. My friend Milojitsu, on what grounds? (Radoslav Milojic: I am mentioned. No, you're not mentioned at all. You are not mentioned by name or last name, and you do not have the right to reply, since your colleague Orlic pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for understanding, let's move on. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two days ago we began a debate on this one-point agenda containing 25 different draft laws and decisions. Of course, it wasn't possible back then, and it's hard to say anything about every proposal, but it's a reflection of the democracy that's been misrepresented by the congregation's majority here. I mentioned, when I spoke two days ago, changing the law on the regulation of courts, and then Mrs. Nela Kuburovic, in fact agreed to what I said, but she said something very interesting and so now I'm going back to one sentence. She said that this amendment was proposed because it would be wrong to apply this member who is changing, because there is an initiative at the Constitutional Court, so what if the Constitutional Court estimates that this member was not in accordance with the Constitution. It is not like the Minister or the Government, because indeed such uncertainty, is it possible to suggest something that you are not sure in advance that is not in accordance with the Constitution. From now on, we will, on every proposal when we think the proposal is bad, let's say we will launch the initiative, and we will really submit it, and then that should mean by that logic, that this law will not be applied, or adopted. As for the proposal for a private security law, this is where you envisioned the issue of licenses for natural persons and the issue of licenses for weapons protection and without weapons, but we didn't see anything about the criteria where they were given with weapons of licenses, where they were given without weapons. With that in mind, it would be interesting, Minister, and we're also asking for an answer here from you. You may not be able to do it right now, but when we're under the amendments -- how many protected persons are in Serbia who are protected and who have physical and technical security, or physical security, and about the cost of the Serbian state and how long these securitys last. Of course, it's clear which persons under the law must be protected, they're not concerned with this question, you know what they mean here. It's interesting, too, you say, here you predict these some individuals that you're going to give them the opportunity to carry guns, and that there are many of these people, it's obvious, you're going to say that they are protecting themselves, and that they have security to make the people understand what I'm talking about, about the state's cost. On the other hand, the full private security that does not require money from the state, Vojislav Seselj, you do not allow them to be allowed to carry arms. Are you assessing that he's absolutely safe, or is that what you're thinking? As for this law that we're actually going to talk about most in detail, about reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, we said that the law is also not good. What's the point? The whole law is set out in the disaster risk reduction strategy and emergency management. That strategy is adopted by the government. And, let me, it's none of that, you know, there's no real legal regulations to say it like that, that's how it's gonna be. Somehow, as if we hadn't learned anything from those tragic May 2014 floods. We have proposed, all SRS MPs proposed by amendment that under this law, the most urgent or the latest within 15, 16 days, I do not know exactly how much the last amendment is, that the government assigns, in fact, to commit itself by law to assign diplomatic immunity to the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. We are confident that this would just make a significant contribution to reducing the risk of disasters, especially the management of emergency situations, when God does not allow some of the disasters to come. When it comes to the law on detective activity, I really expect you to accept one of our amendments here, I'm afraid you've overlooked something very important or you've been mistranslated. It's also about using guns by detectives, and there you've changed the law that says how guns are used, now that I'm not wasting my time, but you haven't touched a law that, a member who says you get guns, and in fact no one can almost get guns, when that one, it seems to me to be a 30 that you didn't touch when you look at it. What else is interesting here? And I think you have to accept the amendment of the Minister, you've predicted for the license detectives, but how? You predicted that detective activity could be dealt with physically, we don't think that's good, and that's not supposed to be done, you predicted that legal persons, i.e. businesses or entrepreneurs, and then what did you say? The license to perform this action must have an authorized face in my legal face. But it's got nothing to do with work, and you didn't make those detectives, people who would be detectives, they don't have to have a license. It says, ma'am, exactly as I tell you, look at the amendment, when it's your turn. So, an authorized person in a legal person, could be a doctor, could be a baker, could be an economist, who, in the course of his regular activity, will say, here I'd like to do that work, go to the APR, register it, but then it doesn't matter if he has a license, it's important whether he who deals with this business has a license. We have significant objections to the Data Protection Act, first of all, to what this law has been prescribed, translated only by Ms Kuburović. What is unacceptable for us is that there are many places in this bill where different cases are foreseen for the presentation of data on Serbia's personalities. You know, whoever bit him, the lizard is afraid, we know well what all the data was given to The Hague Terminal, which is why Serbs were arrested, what data was given to the courts and prosecutors of BiH and Croatia and today, and BiH and Croatia every day have someone new on the list, no one knows exactly how many people, how many Serbs they are looking for, because every minute they complete these lists and we are afraid, taught by experience so far that these data could be abused and so we think that it should not remain in the Law. Mrs. Kuburovic, when it came to the objections of the Serbian Orthodox Church, our MP group did not respect the SPC's views to submit amendments exactly in line with what they asked of us, of all MPs, and was wrong Mrs. Kuburovic, when she said if someone were baptized, a wedding in church etc. that he thus gives his information to the public. That's not true. The state and the church are separate, someone's definition whether he's a believer or not, is his personal matter, and maybe he doesn't want to know that he's married, maybe he doesn't want to know that he's been baptized or that his child is baptized. So, in those books, no trustee can enter the church books. Imagine one of your Shabics, that he can go to the church books there, that's just inadmissible. When it comes to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and Mrs Kuburovic was not right. First, legal aid under very favourable conditions exists today in local self-government, and this could have been adapted, to be free of charge where it should be, but it is not good that a non-governmental sector is introduced through this law into this help to citizens. Someone here said that this way, these NGOs are paid out of the budget, that's not true. One is the problem of funding NGOs from the budget, and another is the problem of paying the service, because free legal aid is free of charge for the citizens, but whoever is doing the legal aid will get the relevant budget money. Now, for example, that Milan Antonijevic, the successor of Natasa Kandic in that fund, the humanitarian rights, as they are called, who otherwise allows himself to be a rapper as he says, all the lawyers have to keep quiet, his interpretation is only valid. Someone like that will force us to give legal aid and that's why we're paying for it. It just can't. Ministers two days ago, you promised us answers to questions about certain affairs that we Serbian radicals have opened, concerning four ministers and Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic. Indeed, we expect answers to these questions, but please, without personal impressions. You said last time you didn't believe that Rasim Ljajic was involved in the drug affair, Ana Brnabic said...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48223	Comrade Radeta, what does this have to do with the subject, have you asked that before? You had parliamentary questions...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48224	You were in the white world.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48225	I have been in the white world, and I have worked for the benefit of my country and my Parliament, I have not brutally accused anyone in such a way as you have done, you can and have the right to ask parliamentary questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but my dignity will not allow you to do so now and to brutally crucify anyone, not only Rasim Ljajic, but anyone in this room. Please keep the minimum of dignity, and as far as I know and how well I am informed, and I think I am well informed, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic and the minister of police, the Deputy Prime Minister gave a very clear answer. Thank you very much. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Don't interrupt me, don't do that. All right, go ahead, that's your right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48226	Of course I do, and don't try to run a session like that. Nebojsa Stefanovic promised the National Assembly two days ago this answer and we are looking for those answers. The fact that you don't like it, I'm sorry. This isn't personal. We used to bring up some positive things about Rasim Ljajic until we got to this data now. So nothing personal, but if there's any information that the Deputy Prime Minister is involved in some drug dealings, certainly the minister has to see it, let's see what operational knowledge is. You know, you see for yourself, that it got a little messy and that there's some new information coming up in the media every day on the subject. So, I only prayed without personal impressions, because what Ana Brnabic said was that she was surprised by what we said, you know, many in Serbia were surprised that she was from Naleda's post as the Prime Minister. But it happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48227	Minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48228	Thank you. So, as for the exact number of protected persons in Serbia, I'll get you that number. So it's going around 40, I'm talking about, of course, all the people who protect themselves by law and regulation, and of course, according to the decisions of the state authorities, depending on their threat, whether it's about judges, prosecutors or any other physical person. So I'm going to have the exact number, so I'm going to say it right. In any case, as far as detective activity is concerned, as well as physical security and as for all those who want to perform special duties as security officers, it's important to us, we've defined ourselves to introduce a specific order into this area by issuing special licences, because we've noticed that a part of the people want to do this work, without weapons, and one part wants to do it with weapons. We have prescribed in the law amending, on private security, in Article 7, which amends the applicable Article 12, what are the actual licenses for the performance of private security work issued to a natural person who fulfils the general conditions for obtaining each of the established types of licences, i.e. from one of the nine points, which define what are the conditions that it must fulfil in order to carry out that exercise, i.e. to obtain a licence. Among other things, and what are the conditions for getting weapons, which are already provided for by law, which determines what are the conditions that a natural person must meet to be able to carry a weapon, own it or have a license to carry a weapon. For the first time in this law, we have also introduced a security disturbance, so we have defined exactly what a security disturbance is, that it would not be to leave it only to a state authority to at its discretion, but that it can, in fact, through these standards that we have foreseen, define whether a person has a security concern for doing this job. Regarding this issue of licenses, which you said, Article 5 says: “The law enforcement license can be issued to a legal person who... point 5 is replaced by the following: So, no – licenses will be issued to a responsible person in a legal person, only if you don't mean that member? In any case, as far as I can see, we've predicted that a license to perform detective activity can be obtained, under certain conditions, by any legal person. Now, within the legal person – the responsible person of a legal person can be a detective and some other person who is not a detective, nor has a license to perform detective activity. And the individuals within the legal entity, who will perform specialized detective work, must get their own licenses to carry out the detective's work they're supposed to do. So in that sense, I think it's relatively clear. If there's anything that needs to be fixed, I'm always ready to define it precisely. So if there's a solution somewhere that's more accurate than ours, you know that I don't have a problem with it, it's always important that the law be as precise as possible, to avoid any inaccuracies and misreading. As far as those answers are concerned, I told you, we started in 2014 and 2015, on the orders of the competent prosecutors, checks on the privatisation of Tesla Bank, and potential damage to the Republic of Serbia, which was caused by the accidental spending of funds and various other criminal acts. Those reports were submitted to the New Sad D.A.'s Office. More prosecutors in Novi Sad are taking further steps in connection with the case, and the investigation is currently under way. The consultations within the criminal police have been carried out and the case inside the police is being conducted by the SBPOK. Since the investigation is complex, when it is completed completely, I expect that we will be able to obtain information on whether there is damage and who are the suspects to this damage in the Republic of Serbia. As for Mr. Ljajic, I said, it is not about my personal beliefs, but I said that the Ministry of the Interior does not have the information that Mr. Ljajic is part of any organised criminal group and I made my own confidence that it would be hard for me to believe that. But, unrelated to whether I personally believed or not, there is no information that suggests that it is part of any organised criminal group or that it has in any way violated the laws of the Republic of Serbia. As far as other information is concerned, I will provide you with it in good time, what I can, of course, as I did then, give certain limits on the possibility of answering you, depending on what I get from the answer, about which criminal proceedings are under way, and I expect that when I can give a more precise answer, to give it to you, to give a response to the National Assembly, as I have so far. I think I've answered most of the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48229	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Muamer Bačevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48230	Dear Chairman, you were on a good path when you warned the previous speaker of point 106. Indeed, she does not have the right to bid on the morale of a man who is well-known to Serbia, and the previous speaker, or speaker to Serbia, is well-known for her amoral performances and tweets that have upset the entire public throughout the Balkans. For her information, the town of Novi Pazar and the City of Novi Pazar Assembly made a decision and we have arranged and assigned the name of the plateau in Novi Pazar after the late Hatidji Mehmedovic. She's got someone else behind her. Ma'am, if Zukorlic just called you for a meeting, you two, and there he shared the tasks in which to help him... "Are you out of your mind?" Did I get out of here? )......................................................................................................... You don't do this because you're breaking the laws of this country. Natasha Sp. Balvan, sit down! ) Ma'am, you are disrupting the silence for elections for the national council and in the worst way you abuse the laws of this country. You should be sanctioned for hate speech and all that you are spreading in this country and not to mention the honorable name Rasim Ljajic who works for this country and for peace and stands up for everything we are against. I ask you to continue with dignity to lead this assembly and punish the outpouring of hatred, and we Bosniaks will not allow our honor to be struck in this way and like this. If Zukorlic just invited you and bought you coffee and shared your assignments, that's enough talking about a black-green coalition that will bring him a lot of bad in Sandzak in the upcoming elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48231	Thank you. Dr. Bacevic, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. As you know, I also warned my colleague Radet that what she said had nothing to do with the agenda and that it was absolutely wrong to talk about anyone, no, of course, only Rasim Ljajic. Of course, although she expected that maybe we didn't have the spine, as far as everyone could see now, we have how and we'll fight until the last. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Muamer Bacevac: Yes. Thank you. National MP Vjerica Radeta, right on the line to Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48232	Mr. Stefanovic, I'm not happy with the answer. You just said nicely how far this case arrived where Bojan Pajtic and Boris Tadic damaged the state by six million euros and we now know exactly what stage the procedure is in. It seems for these others, ministers, and for Rasim Ljajic that we will have to wait for you to be replaced, and then the radical minister to get to know the public about all this. Since it's, among other things, this law that you've been talking about, about security, I beg you, you've just witnessed that this moral messenger here threatened me with a finger and I'm simply not allowed out of this room, so I'm asking for security to be regulated. He says I can't mention Rasim Ljajic as a moral man, and he can say I'm immoral? Where it says he dares to call me immoral and boasts that some square in Pazar will be named after Hatji Mehmedovic, which is terrible. I did not insult this Hattija Mehmedovic on religious or national grounds, but I was talking about someone who was evil. Muamer Bacevac: Shame on you! Shame on you! You were here the whole time and I was sitting here. I didn't move, and this one of yours who, you say, has a spine... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48233	I'm sorry, Mrs. Radeta. I'm taking a break, in accordance with Article 112 of five minutes. I ask the MPs to die. You interrupted me in half a sentence! I pray for peace and dignity. We can lead here, according to the Rules of Procedure, one debate. (The Belief of Radeta: He can't do half the sentence.) Yes, in half a sentence because the MPs began to earn each other... So what if they're getting it, I don't mind it! )......................................................................................................... to swear on each other and I don't want to let that happen. The break is five minutes, like I said. You can yell as much as you want, I won't let this place be a mess and indiscipline.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48234	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the order of the reported You no longer have the right to a replica. [[The Faith of Radeta: I continue the replica.]] (Miss Radeta: By the Rules of Procedure.) Not according to the Rules of Procedure, I've just started a session. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48235	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Mr Stefanovic, with his associates, Minister Kuburovic, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, here I read today in this House of the National Assembly we are dealing with the politics of the past, I want to talk about the policy of the future, a policy that will really bring benefits to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia through the adoption of new laws. This is the moment to show that the Republic of Serbia really has the strength to deal with all the troubles and accumulated problems that the previous regime has left us as baggage. They would now, we saw today in action, to return, to get their chairs and to continue to harass and rob what they failed to do when they were in power. Those for the citizens and for the problems of the citizens, freedoms and rights of the citizens, indeed in no way cared. Something else mattered to her. They pushed the problems of the citizens under the carpet. There was something else important to them, personal wealth was important to them. Look at their property cards, and you'll be absolutely clear. But let's get back to the agenda of these really important laws. Today we are discussing important laws, a set of laws in the field of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. It's about new legal solutions, but it's also about changing and supplementing old legal solutions. This is an important matter that concerns both the security of citizens, the raising of capacities, the response in human protection and rescue actions, and further reform, the continuation of Serbian police reform through the continuation of the introduction of the concept of career progress and all those issues related to the harmonisation of wages in the ICP. We've been waiting on some of the Justice Department's laws for 14-15 years. So, it's about the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Law on Lobbying, so this is really a great success for you too, Mrs. Kuburovic, and for you, Mr. Stefanovic, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has really managed to bring all relevant institutions together and that today we are discussing really important laws, which and how will benefit citizens living in this country. We have, indeed, witnessed that almost every year we have an ever-increasing number of natural disasters, accidents caused by rinks, accidents caused by natural or human factors, such as floods, earthquakes, natural disasters. All this suggests that climate change topics, environmental protection topics and issues that are also civil protection, important topics, and that we as a society and state will be engaged in both the coming years and the next decades of these topics and how we will deal with them. This is also witnessed by figures in Serbia, floods that hit the Republic of Serbia in 2014. They have done material damage estimated at 1.7 billion euros. These Mayan floods have taken a large number of human lives. Many citizens have lost their roof over their heads. Indeed, the great damage suffered by the economy, above all I think about the energy sector, and among other things 74 health care facilities, hospitals, schools, kindergartens were destroyed. It is estimated that the May floods, meaning the historic floods that hit my country, the Republic of Serbia, are estimated to have had an impact on 1.6 million people in an indirect or direct manner. So we're talking about the devastating consequences of the Mayan floods that concerned as many as 22% of the population of the people living in our country. It's precisely because of all the things I've said, which is why it's important that we discuss today and find an adequate legal answer, as is the new Emergency Risk Reduction Act and Emergency Management. This law actually consists of two parts. The legislator really took care of every detail, and we in this new law have a part of the existing solutions that were really good in practice, but we can also talk about the parts of the laws that represent a new modern European law that goes in step with time and with all the challenges of the new era. Innovative solutions have been inserted into the text of the law. Indeed, all that unnecessary bureaucracy has been removed, procedures have been simplified, and I really hope, we will follow the application of this law, that its application in practice will be as effective as possible. I want to point out one more thing now. A very small number of local self-government units have so far been developed, but also companies have so far developed a risk assessment of disasters and protection and rescue plans. The aim of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but above all and the Ministry of the Interior, is to help now all responsible entities in the chain to make up their assessment of the risk of disasters and to make up their plans for protection and rescue. That's what the numbers make us do. It is therefore important that we find an adequate legal framework for the emergence of new disasters and, in the right way, to really regulate governance and situations relating to emergency response. Winston Churchill said - instead of worrying, we better think ahead and plan. That is exactly what Minister Stefanovic, who, along with his expert team at the Ministry of the Interior, has done after a truly detailed analysis, has prepared solutions on how to normly improve this system of reaction in emergency situations and solutions are today ahead of us, MPs. Indeed, here we are already entering the second day that we have the opportunity to discuss them specifically. The solutions, above all, concern, in this new law, the strengthening of healthcare facilities, civil protection, the modernisation and supply of equipment, the reform of the emergency sector, raising the capacity of emergency headquarters and strengthening the obligations of units of local self-government and economy. I have indeed tried to read this law that is before us today as a citizen, as a citizen to whom this law will apply and simply to myself and to all of you, to all our dear fellow Members of the people, to all citizens and to the professional public, to answer the question of what we want, in fact, to achieve this law. The answers are in front of us, the answers are in the very text of the law. We want, first of all, to raise the awareness of citizens living in our country, to raise awareness when it comes to prevention. The prevention is, in fact, in the focus of this new modern law, and we need to think more about it in the coming years and decades ahead. Practice has shown that our society, our local self-government, but also part of the economy, simply, was not enough when it comes to emergency response. Now we finally have some kind of strategic framework, including all those international standards we've missed so far, all those international standards contained in the United Nations and EU conventions. In the central place, he's just principled subsidiarity. We want it to be this primary responsibility for non-response in an emergency situation that has the authority closest to its citizens, which is the units of local self-government, that is the economy that operates in the given units of local self-government. The new text of the law will indeed be one big step, and when it comes to the application and adoption of all international standards, it is about harmonising the Directives with the United Nations Organisation, but the EU guidelines contained in Chapter 27 when it comes to protection, civil protection, prevention and rescue in emergency situations. The figures are such that, according to the United Nations, when you look at a single dinar invested in prevention, it really comes back to you multiple times. It's thought to be 1/8 percent. So, if we invest a single dollar in prevention in the Republic of Serbia, it will indeed pay us back more and more in the years ahead. The resilience of individuals and communities to disasters is indeed raised through one dialogue and through one kind of mutual co-operation with all relevant institutions in our country and at local and national level. Indeed, the paper also represents the formation of a national risk reduction platform, which will in many ways help to give an adequate response to emergency situations and disasters in our country. Now I would also like to say that it is very important that Serbia is not an isolated island, and this is also shown by the May floods of 2014. It is estimated that about 90% of all the disasters that occur in the world are actually disasters that are caused by a natural factor. These disasters include the May floods of 2014, when the Republic of Serbia was not only affected, when an entire region was hit, both Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. It is important that we have international co-operation, it is important that we have a common international response to all disasters and that we can participate in all those programmes and projects of international humanitarian aid. Now I would like to point to another important aspect of this proposed law, which is the role of citizens. Practice has shown that during the previous period, when floods in our country were in 2014, 2016 and this year, 2018, citizens in some way either did not react or reacted in an intrinsically in emergency situations. We also had opportunities to see those unconscious citizens, who were swimming in their pools while other citizens were filling bags of sandbags and participating in the work of local emergency headquarters and making river dikes, which actually represented some dam from further river spills. It's changing now and that's what's good about this new law. There is a higher obligation for citizens to participate in the protection against the rescue at the call of the competent staff, but the obligation to act on orders to evacuate people, cattle and material goods is also introduced. I really think this is a paper that is necessary and it is something that is good and that is really necessary in these situations. As someone who comes from Belgrade, from the Rakovica municipality, which was also affected by the floods in 2014, I also want to point to an important newspaper, which is that all the rights and obligations that applied to local self-government units now apply to Belgrade municipalities, so all those rights and obligations that units of local self-government throughout Serbia will now apply to a total of 17 Belgrade municipalities. During the May floods in Belgrade, I will remind you, besides Obrenovac, who was the most affected, also Lazarevic, Rakovica and Grocko were hit. And it is important that we amend this law precisely because of all those Belgraders who live, whether they live on Vračar, Savavac, Palilula or Barajev, Sopot, Lazarjevac, Obrenovac. The main newspaper of this law is that the possibility is introduced, in addition to clear and precise criminal provisions, to strengthen the capacity and role of the Republic Emergency Staff, which can now disband local emergency headquarters in the proposed legislative solution. He can also introduce a temporary emergency headquarters to respond in a better way, as effectively as possible in a given crisis, in a given disaster and in the right way in emergency situations. The Benefits of this Law are indeed many, and we can see them from the beginning to the end when we read this legal solution. In Article 15. The bill, in paragraph 4, introduces the obligation to assess the risk of disasters by private persons who manage the business of commercial, sports, catering, accommodation facilities and facilities for the entertainment of more than 100 persons, for a stay intended for children up to 14 years of age, independent of capacity. This is very important for business operators to be aware of taking part of responsibility in the system of responsibility, such as emergency management. In 2014, we had really unkind events with fatal consequences, like that incident at the New Sad discotheque, when the whole town of Novi Sad was turned black, when six young people burned to death in the fire and we just wanted to, and on this, indeed, Mr Stefanovic, I give you credit, you took care of all the details and you warned, preventively we want to warn all these negative consequences, and that part of the responsibility must be taken over by economic operators in our country. Now I'd like to refer to all the benefits they bring and the other laws that are in front of us today, and from the section of the MUP. We will continue to reform the Serbian police as SNS. We will continue to modernize, professionalise the personnel working in the Serbian police. We will allow these amendments and additions to the Police Act to be truly adequately appreciated career advancement. Also, we will allow the formation of operational voluntary fire companies, affirming voluntary firefighting in Serbia, but also the obligation of local self-government units to really allocate funds in their local budgets to these members of voluntary fire departments at a local place that they will now want to register again in the APR, to form their own unit and to participate equally with regular fire departments in our country. Also, a very important law that is today ahead of us, which will lead to us having a higher degree of security at our sports events, where we will tighten the criminal policy, that we will expand our actions in order to combat violence and misbehave at our sports events. It's important because of our citizens, because family people who really want to go to games, derbys, participate and support their sports club from the stands. By passing this law, it will be possible. The time for this debate is slowly running out, and in order to give my colleagues the opportunity to engage actively, I want to say the following. As someone who has really known Mr. Stefanovic for ten years, I know that no solution is good enough if it is not the best solution. You've gathered an expert team at the MUP, you've been working in detail on the analysis before these ten laws entered the National Assembly. I know you'll have a hearing about the proposals that come from this side, about proposals that come from the MPs so that we can have as many better legal solutions as possible. Many of these legal solutions will benefit from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our economic operators will benefit, because we want to create the Republic of Serbia as one better, safer, safer place. We want to adopt all those standards we've missed so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48236	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48237	I'm impressed, colleague Arsic, that you let your colleagues talk a lot more about the subject. We support it and you know it well, but Article 116 obliges you to have such a relationship with all MPs. There was no reason for Marinkovic to interrupt me in half a sentence earlier, as the MPs allegedly threw something at each other. I really don't mind that. I'm very focused. I spoke to Minister Stefanovic. You weren't there, but you can't sit there until you know exactly what happened before.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48238	I know. I know. I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48239	So, I wanted to tell Mr. Stefanovic that I am not satisfied with what he said and that the information he presented is not correct. We have different data, and soon the public will be familiar with that data. Here is this colleague, I really don't know his name, because he rarely speaks, although he just said about counterpart Jovanovic and me "the two", he said we were at coffee with Mufti Zukorlic. I wouldn't mind if I did, but you're a witness, and everyone here is a witness that I haven't moved from this place in ten hours, let alone out of the O.R. So I couldn't possibly get coffee with Mufti Zukorlic. The truth is, in some earlier periods, I went to have a drink with Rasim Ljajic, when he came here as a minister, but it was at a time when we didn't have any information that he was head of the drug clan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48240	The word is Muamer Bacevac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48241	Your Honor, I don't know what basis you gave the previous speaker. Absolutely, after the speech of Honey, I don't know which way is... You've injured Article 104. I've been very clear. Several times this pay phone has been abused here. For an honorable man, who has raised all that he has touched, who is a factor of stability and peace, who is the most important figure and has several times been declared the most European, which is the Bosniak Conrad Adenauer, to be allowed, without any proof, to say something that offends all minorities in this country, especially Bosniaks. You know that there is an absolute abuse of electoral silence here for the national council, that from 12 to 12 last night, we must not participate in the elections, or lobby for any group. This is the direct lobbying of Seselj's party, or his representatives for Muamer Zukorlic, and we had the whole campaign, and it will pass and lead Zukorlic into a catastrophic situation in Sandzak, because it is now being revealed. You know what we say. You're on whose religion you're on. So it's God's messenger's home. We want to improve this country in the right way, but this country has to take the honorable people in defense, so tomorrow they're going to accuse me of being such a person. There are serious careers behind us, serious families. This has gone beyond measure, and I ask you to act, for there is unrest between the Bosniaks and all other minorities. In what way we are discussing here, one MP who is known for spreading hate is allowed to directly oppose the Constitution of this country. I ask you to stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure and not allow a speech of hatred and of the order of the Members of this House. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48242	Wait till I answer my colleagues, Bačevac. Radeta's colleague discussed article 116, expressing doubt that her colleague, Dusica Stojkovic, was not speaking in line with the agenda theme and that she had come up with her discussion in broad terms, and it began. I can't tell what an MP is going to say at what time. One suspicion has been expressed, and it has been presented that it will be given evidence, that it is not satisfied with the minister's reply. (Muamer Bacevic: What does that have to do with the Soul? In the injury of the Rules of Procedure. This happened in the Assembly that when some elections, whether local, elections for national councils, the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia is turned into a pre-election polygon, which I think is completely legitimate, but therefore I ask my fellow Members to preserve their dignity and their colleagues and their discussions to this end be directed towards respect. By the way, I don't think the National Assembly can turn into a place where the myths are held like you're out in the open and it's like your own organization. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about your injury to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48243	Article 27 in relation to Article 107. Indeed, a serious insult to the entire assembly of SRS has been said earlier, and to God and to the entire National Assembly. If anyone has anything to say about Rasim Ljajic, we Serbian radicals have these days and we'll talk. On the basis of someone's conclusion that we insult all national minorities as Bosniaks and all national minorities, my people, that's amazing. What does it matter what information we have on the involvement of Ljajic in that drug cartel with the national minority and its nationality? What does it have to do with any national minority? If someone really respects national minorities, it's the SRS. You've never heard of us, neither of us, that we've in any way offended any national minority, especially Muslims, or how they like to tell themselves Bosniaks, which absolutely doesn't bother us. So we pride ourselves on being a member of the SRS, Salek Selimovic. We had the People's MP Suleiman Spah, we had the MPs and other national minorities and the party's leadership we have representatives of national minorities. This is really offensive. I understand that they have a warrant and an obligation to defend the character and the work of Rasim Ljajic, but they have to take care of how they do it. Says the Rasim Ljajic family is a serious family. The family of Vjerica Radete is a serious family, the family of Vojislav Seselj is a serious family, so this one tells him that the war criminal is lying, of course because Vojislav Seselj is not a war criminal. Here's Mrs. Kuburovic, as justice minister, knows she's interpreting the verdict, so she knows, if I have another 30 seconds, I guess we're even in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48244	I'm just saying, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48245	So he knows that he doesn't say anything that Dr. Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal and is not a war criminal. And then his reputation and his family don't mind if this guy here, what's-his-name, Muamer Butch, or whatever, calls him a war criminal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48246	Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48247	So, please, I'm finishing up my colleague Arsic, I need two seconds more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48248	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48249	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 27, 103 and 108. I believe that the Rules of Procedure and that you should have warned yourself, and that the strictest punishment for the previous speaker is that, as you said, which is not allowed at the National Assembly sessions, I especially don't know why any party here from the Assembly who is not at all, we are not involved in elections for the national majority and the National Assembly cannot be a polygon and some people here and some parties can use the National Assembly and be instructed in terms of supporting one of the candidates for elections for national councils of national minorities. Let's respect parliamentary democracy. Let us respect this high and appreciated home, our National Assembly and respect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't care if anyone's paid, if he's told, and who told him to act one way or another? We are here as a party trying to support the coalition, to support most. (The Faith of Radeta: Who has been paid?) Say it! You can yell all you want, we are fighting for our country's economic prosperity, we are fighting for political democracy. We fight for the modernisation of our country, we fight for the highest civilization and democratic values in our country, we fight for peace, we fight for dialogue. We respect the Deputy Prime Minister and the Police Minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, respect his authority, respect his credibility, and I think he said in two sentences yesterday what is the key thing. The fact that someone is trying to crucify Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic for the sake of elections for national councils of national minorities may be legitimate, but someone thinks we won't fight back here in parliament and we won't fight back hard, so he's wrong. I want to make a statement in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48250	Since you want the Assembly to plead in voting day, I don't think I should give you an explanation or an explanation regarding your advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue with further discussion. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48252	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, while we risk becoming boring, it is necessary each time to point to the continuation of the bad practice of putting the law on the agenda by emergency procedure, as is done when this session is scheduled. This kind of violation of the principles of parliamentaryism has already become, unfortunately, a general place for which we receive criticism from both the EU and other international actors dealing with the issues of democracy and the rule of law. Critics have also begun to come from those who have been very kind to the authorities in Serbia so far, such as Mr Kukan, an MP in the European Parliament, who, along with his colleagues, was in Belgrade this week. He said that this pace is not Serbia's real membership in the EU in 2025, and that Serbia must move much faster, especially pointing to shortcomings in the areas of justice and media freedom. It seems that a large number of European officials are growing awareness that advocating respect for fundamental European values, rather than grumbling at their violation due to some, to God's, higher goals, is the only correct policy towards candidate countries that can lead to the desired stabilisation and progress of these societies. And here we come to a fundamental question relating to some of the laws that are on the agenda of this session, which is - what are the values of this government? Are these the values that should be behind the achievement of the strategic goal, which is EU membership, as the prime minister pointed out at the very beginning of her exposé last year, or those who see European integration as a carrot, as the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister put it? A legitimate question arises – is there no concrete plan in other areas, as well as in many key areas for Serbia's future, the Kosovo issue, as the Prime Minister said yesterday? Due to the sense of uncertainty and lack of perspective stemming from such an approach, with the best metaphor of the situation in Serbia following the latest installation on the Obilić wreath in Belgrade, a tunnel that leads nowhere and a maze in front of it from which we can only return to that tunnel, we experience an exodus primarily of those who should contribute most to the development of our society. Such a gray area of uncertainty, ambiguity, unpredictability and arbitraryness also characterizes a few draft laws that are on the agenda of this session and I will talk about them. These are, above all, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, the Law on Lobbying and the Law on Free Legal Assistance. There is an impression that by adopting these, as well as the previous large number of laws during this call, it just wants to see the fulfillment of international obligations, primarily in relation to the process of European integration, while essentially leaving room for numerous abuses. When it comes to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, this proposal absolutely devises the very name of this law. Namely, a legal restriction has been deleted allowing police, intelligence agencies or private companies to enter citizens' privacy only when it is prescribed by law. Leaving undefined space for access to these data directly violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 42, in particular Article 2, which reads: collection, holding, processing and use of personality data is governed by law. State services have no surveillance space without this law, but a new law opens up space for a wide range of other entities to use citizens' data and manipulate these data. Citizens are very upset about this, because today there is an infrastructure that is not only owned by the state, but also large companies, and there is a risk of data abuse. Citizens would have to know what's going on with that data, that they can take it or delete it, and by adopting this law, all of it could be disabled. Therefore, there is a large, I would say, justified concern that the law will most benefit private companies that earn from our data. Now a few words about the Lobby Act. It is certainly necessary for Serbia to get a law that would regulate this area, as it is one of the dams for the existence of a captured state. The adoption was also insisted on international organisations dealing primarily with the fight against corruption. However, I am afraid that the scope of such a law will be very limited because it leaves the possibility of dealing with this activity without registration. What some countries in the region have shown, which adopted this model, such as Slovenia, is that after the law was passed, a very small number of registered lobbyists, which suggests, with a high degree of probability, that the impact on the decision-making of the authorities is taking place elsewhere. In this way, it seems that this flexible text of the Lobby Act, which leaves the possibility of lobbying those who are not registered, is just as isolated as those who have done so so far, and intend to continue, which is contrary to the principle of transparency, as well as the potential source of corruption. Finally, in short on the draft law on free legal aid. The main argument is that restricting the provision of free legal services by other qualified entities constitutes an unlawful violation of the right to access a representative by choice and an inadmissible restriction on the right of lawyers to determine their fees and to offer their services pro bono. The proposal requires a lawyer who wants to provide legal assistance to be kept in a register with the Justice Department. Adding additional barriers, otherwise qualified lawyers, risks limiting the number of legal aid providers. This can also lead to the use of political influence and to arbitrary or even discriminatory decisions on who provides legal assistance. Therefore, the introduction of criminal sanctions may deter lawyers, who are not registered in the Justice Department's register, from providing legal assistance to the person who needs the assistance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48253	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, a Vlad Zagradian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48254	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Veri Paunovic, for the concession of the order of speakers due to the events that took place in our parliamentary group, which you all know. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today a set of legislative proposals in the fields of internal affairs and security, but also in the fields of justice and justice. Not downplaying the importance of the other laws on the agenda, and they will certainly be spoken of by my fellow MPs, I, in my discussion, will devote myself to the security laws. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events is an extremely important law, which will improve legal mechanisms to prevent risks and threats of violence at sports events. Together with the amendments and additions to the Private Security Act, we seek to create such an environment where visitors of sports events will be able to enjoy sports events safely. Violence, as well as misbehavior at sports events compared to an earlier period, continues to take place incidents at sports events. In the previous period, reports from sports events rather than being exclusively in the spirit of sport have been rarely replaced by reports of unmill events with sports stands, where the sports event itself falls into another plan. The normative framework is an important part of the strategy to combat violence and misbehave and today we complement it and build on it, with the suggestion that we should even tighten the criminal provisions of this law, because the violence that is happening on sports grounds does not only have an impact on sport, but also on the position, rating and business of our sports clubs. We have a case that clubs are often punished for the behaviour of fans, and punishments are manifested by the closure of stadiums, sports courts, which is why clubs suffer the consequences not only of financial losses, but also of a significantly ruined reputation, and not only that, in this case and the country from which the club suffers the consequences, because it leaves the impression that it did not have an adequate system to deal with hooliganism. In the fight against violence in the sports stands, it is important to include all state bodies, by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Sports, the Ministry of Education and other state bodies and social entities. For this very reason, the National Council for the Prevention of adverse events in sport has also been established, which is tasked with bringing all relevant entities together to affect the reduction of violence in the stands. I must point out that and what an important role the media has in this matter as well. The media should report on sanctioning the perpetrators of these crimes and crimes. In this way, the public is familiar with all the consequences of these procedures, while a large number of young people, including registered perpetrators, seem preventive and educational to refrain from such behaviour. It is important to point out that the infrastructure of sports facilities is also an important segment in the fight against violence and misbehavior, as good and modern infrastructure provides conditions for more effective security control in the sports tribune itself. The introduction of video surveillance at absolutely all stadiums and halls should be considered, in order to enable state authorities to better shed light on the possible crime, but also to be able to analyse all events at the sports event, to point out some failures of active participants in the organisation and to provide a sport event. The law that will complete the normative framework and affect the reduction of violence at sports events is also the Private Security Act. These amendments more precisely define the competences and powers of the directorial service, as one important security factor in the handling of certain cases, both at sports events and at other gatherings, where their presence is necessary. The private security sector is highly developed and is an important part of the internal security policy of the Republic of Serbia and as such has a growing responsibility. In addition, it says that there were approximately 33,000 people registered in this sector, as many as 890 business entities involved in this business. The amendments provide for the specific introduction of a special licence with appropriate conditions for all those involved in this activity. In so far's application of the Private Security Act, it has been observed that there is a reason to distinguish certain areas of protection, i.e. Security. This will certainly contribute to a greater professionalisation of this activity, because every member of the private security will have to be adequately trained and pass all psychophysical and security checks, so that he can do this job. Licensing to carry out private security activities will be issued to five years, reducing the administrative process, but reducing costs to economic operators so that they can invest more in improving their capacities and develop in accordance with European standards. It is also a good opportunity to remind ourselves that the Law on Private Security and the Law on Detective Services, which I will also talk about, was the first time I brought in 2013, when Ivica Dacic was headed by the MUP. In fact, for the first time in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, there are issues relating to specificities related to the performance of private security and detective services. Both amendments to the laws we are discussing today aim to further professionalise these activities and raise service quality levels, taking into account their significant contribution to the overall internal security system. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Detective Action provides for a newspaper relating to the security inspection of persons carrying out this activity. This means that detective activity will be able to deal with exclusively persons who have no security interference to carry out the work of their work cycle and we find this very important. Also, an important change applies to the protection of personal data. It is that the data collection process will provide additional legal certainty for the protection of personal data, as the data collected in this way will only be used in the context of the contracted transaction. I am convinced that such a normative rounding of the security sector will contribute to the realisation of the objectives declared and the national security strategy and that new legal solutions will also contribute to the protection of employees' rights in this sector, as well as their security in the performance of jobs, but also that users of services will be more protected and satisfied. Another very important law on the agenda, which lays the groundwork for the application of the new pay system at the interior ministry, is the draft law amending and supplementing the Police Act. Above all, these changes relate to the separation of police and civil servants, namely the exemption of police officers from the public sector wage system, which will bring many benefits. What I want to point out at the outset is that these changes will introduce a more fair system of evaluation and respect for the specificities of police affairs at different levels, thus removing certain illogical payment systems that are now being applied. The reform of the entire security sector for the Republic of Serbia is one of the most important conditions in the negotiation process with the European Union. Chapter 24 – Justice, security and security, as well as the action plan followed by it is a clear framework in which the police should develop. The Law on Police adopted in 2016 established the basis for professionalisation, depoliticisation and full reorganisation of this part of the security sector, which also started the process of police reform. The changes and additions that followed and which I spoke about in March this year followed the aim of the reform, which is to strengthen the integrity of the service, increase the legal certainty of citizens and improve the conditions of work of the ministry as a whole. The amendments and additions to the Law on the Police that we are discussing today should in fact circle the initial police reform, this time by improving the status of economic and social status of the employees themselves in the MUP. Namely, this is where newspapers that were previously announced, in the form of paying groups and paying classes, are introduced, which will create a unique and functional system of work and organisation of the MUP and finally provide a completely fair system of determining the coefficients and salaries of police officers. The basic principle of the new salary system in the MUP is the same salary for the same job, which essentially requires a grouping of the same or similar jobs by family of jobs. What is important to point out is that no right will be reduced to what is the guarantee of a provision that provides for the retention of the income found, when a new payment system is applied. Also, objective criteria are introduced to evaluate jobs that primarily relate to the complexity of jobs, competences of police officers, degree of responsibility, independence in work, as well as business communication. Therefore, a precise system of evaluation of transactions is envisaged that excludes any possibility of subjectivity, and hence potential abuses, and this is important to note. We are aware that police officers are the people who do the most complex jobs in the country, which relate to all security in the state and all its citizens. Of course, at all the risks of their work, they must be adequately rewarded by objectively respecting the specificities of the operations carried out by certain organisational units or at certain jobs in the MUP. For this very reason, we will now have more precise definitions of coefficients, categorizations and corrective coefficients, so for example. The management of the criminal police, where there is an anti-organised crime service or a special anti-terrorist unit, or other organisational units, in the police department, which requires special skills of officials, as well as an exceptional risk to them, e.g. gendarmes, intervention unit, helicopter unit, have a corresponding coefficient of categorisation or corrective coefficient. The corrective coefficient is also foreseen for deficiting interests in the Ministry, and here is the goal of actually keeping frames with a particular profession and educational profile at the Ministry, because unfortunately we are increasingly facing the departure of our most professional people that we must in some way motivate to stay and work in our country. In addition to the financial component that is important and which will be more fair and fairer to these changes and additions of the Police Act, I would point out that the IDP is seriously involved in the full reorganisation of human resources policy in the police, which implies a career advancement system through professional training of police officers, through evaluation, professional training, health and psychological assistance for all employees. All of these are significant steps made by the MUP in the process of its reform, which will certainly affect the satisfaction of all employees in the MUP system, which actually creates an elite country that will only have professional and professional people in its ranks, which certainly raises both quality and responsibility in the performance of security jobs. What will further motivate members of the security sector and what in itself says enough about the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia values and appreciates everything that security service members are doing for their country, are the apartments the government of the Republic of Serbia plans to build for police, military and other members of the security sector. We've already passed that law in May this year. This is very important and should indeed be commended for the efforts of the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we have managed in an unfavourable economic situation through such continued investment, commitment, reform and development of the entire security system to restore the dignity of all members of the security services. Because of the time we have as a parliamentary group, I will allow my colleagues to talk about a set of laws in the area of emergency situations and traffic security. I will only ultimately take the opportunity to give recognition and welcome to all those brave and fearless people, members of the emergency sector, who, under difficult circumstances, are making an immeasurable contribution to the preservation of security and protection of people and property. It is a sector where additional investment is also envisaged and should be commended, because people are working in this sector to ensure that the best conditions and equipment they need in doing this is not easy. The SPS parliamentary group will be happy to support the adoption of all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48255	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Two minutes 57 seconds. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will certainly support all these laws and since our parliamentary group has very little time, I will give it to Mr Miletic for the rest of the time being, and I believe that he will support this law in detail, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48257	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48258	Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the laws that we are discussing here today, and I think more than 20 points of the agenda are united into one, should contribute to the rule of law, should contribute to the security of the legal order and the security of each individual. There are a lot of such laws on this agenda today. Many of them are part of the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows, which, of course, I support as well as most of the MPs from the list I represent. However, the fact that we, these 28 laws and decisions that we need to talk about, talk about this shit together. The question is raised whether the Government really cares about the rule of law and whether this Parliament cares about the rule of law. One of my predecessors said they were looking for the best solutions and that they were expected and to be heard, the opinion of MPs is also taken into account by MPs from the opposition, of course. How can you think of hearing our opinions about all these laws when we talk about them like this? I don't have time to talk about more because my colleagues want to talk, and I'm only gonna focus on one of them. One that is the most dangerous, which contains one major danger and the possibility of huge abuses, in the plan to undermine human fundamental rights in this country, which is the right to privacy and the right to protection of personal data. You know, you probably remember that earlier the Constitutional Court in 2012, this current law that was passed earlier stated that certain provisions were unconstitutional precisely because the right to protect personal data can only be restricted by law. I'm incomprehensible that you're making the same mistake again and my question, do you expect the Constitutional Court to declare this unconstitutional again? Why? Because you're in article 40 when you say you can limit rights, throw out the word - law. Which means that rights can be restricted by any other legal text, meaning, by a regulation and so on. This is very dangerous because you are firstly insinuating the constitutional rights of citizens and insinuating what is ultimately and the European Convention whose Republic of Serbia is a signatory declared and established, and that public authorities should not interfere with the right to respect for the private and family lives of citizens unless such interference is provided for by law. In this regard, we have submitted amendments and I believe that, in the spirit of what the ruling majority representative has said, it will take care of the best solutions. And about the best solutions not from the corner of the government, but from the corner of the citizens. My deep belief that if we adopt important laws with such shortcomings, errors and provisions that are contrary to the Constitution, we will contribute not to the rule of law but to the rule of law that develops in Serbia in various ways both through various fields and through the media and through institutions, in the end, the good work and through this Parliament. I think it's very important that we have a serious debate about this article in 40, and that I'm sorry that we don't have time to commit to this law anymore, to tell the citizens what's dangerous for them and which is why it would be better if this law changed. A very large number of our citizens are faced with not knowing how to protect their rights. When you look at Jurofund's research, a huge number of our citizens express serious suspicion, infidelity and mistrust towards the institutions to seek the protection of their rights. A large number of poor citizens do not have access to justice, and regardless of what we are about to pass today a law on free legal aid, access to justice is seriously compromised by various system solutions. Therefore, I ask you to really commit ourselves seriously to considering these legislative proposals, precisely from the point of view of those objectives that we want to achieve, which is to harmonize our legal order with EU rules, in order to move this country forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48259	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48260	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've already had several opportunities to discuss Article 40. The Law on the Protection of Personality Data, and it has been repeatedly pointed out that this very provision, as it exists now, is aimed at the protection of natural persons and their data. They do it again and why. Because it is the Law on the Protection of Personality Data that provides when the right prescribed by the Constitution and by which authorities can be restricted. There are certain restrictions in the current law where it says that the law can limit itself, but it is not clear that it is the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, but it leaves the possibility to pass some other laws that will further elaborate and restrict those rights. On the contrary, this law is the only one that can limit the rights of natural persons when processing data and in taxo-listed situations. That's 10 situations where you can limit the rights of natural persons. What I need to draw attention to is more than once and again, and that is that the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia advocates European values. This bill is precisely proof of this because the Personal Data Protection Act is fully in line with the European documents that apply in each EU Member State, which is confirmed by the European Commission, when this bill is sent to the opinion, which is confirmed by Eurostat, and this is exactly the kind of provision that exists in all EU Member States. As for the protection of citizens' rights and access to justice, I think precisely thanks to the law on free legal aid, if it is confirmed here in Parliament, we will provide a large number of users with access to justice, which they have been waiting for for several years. The law, i.e. the Constitution was adopted in 2006, and envisioned regulation of legal assistance to the Republic of Serbia. For the first time, we have a unique regulation of legal assistance that will allow a wide range of users to finally exercise their right and protect their rights from the competent authorities. Thank you. (Nataša Vučković: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48261	My colleague Vukkovic, you have not been mentioned at any time. (Nataša Vučković: Misreading. What? She misread it? (Nataša Vučković: Yes. I don't think so. I'm sorry, you have no right to a replica. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48262	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, we are discussing in this high House today a set of very important laws in the area of justice and police. I would agree with you, Mrs Kuburovic, that the set of these laws in the area of justice is an important step towards trusting citizens in the institutions of justice, in strengthening the confidence of citizens and citizens in the judiciary, in the efficiency of the courts and in reducing poverty and social coherence. The law on free legal assistance is a continuation of the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Children, the so-called Istanbul Convention, adopted by Serbia among the first countries, and it shows in a very clear way how free legal aid will be financed, free legal assistance provided and who is the provider of free legal assistance, which will be clearly seen on the electronic register that will be on the Ministry's website, which is a very important step from the point of view of transparency. This law will start to apply from October 2019. Until then, it is very important to do the sublegal act in the right way, because it is precisely the sublegal act that depends on how this law will be implemented, of course, all technical and organisational preparations, but in my opinion, and some kind of education that was very important. We saw when we adopted the Law on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Children, so that education for police officers and prosecutors was very important. My opinion is, since it's a new law, it will be important for its application, and we have enough time to do so. The essence of the Personal Data Protection Act is to allow each citizen the right to protect his personal data, to enable him to be protected, to clearly specify the criteria and responsibilities of the Commissioner for Public Information as an independent institution, and to allow citizens to initiate legal proceedings, unless they are satisfied with the Commissioner's response to information of public importance, which so far was the case only in the initiation of the administrative procedure. The law on lobbying - a new law, the anti-corruption preventive law that Serbia has committed to with the Action Plan of Chapter 23 and the recommendation of GRECO. It increases transparency in the procedures relating to the adoption of laws, regulations and other regulations and this bill, which is most important in my opinion, is given a tool in the hands of citizens that when lobbying for some of their problems in order to pass laws, they can do so in a transparent manner, and the state of arms in the fight against corruption. This bill makes it visible as a lobbyist, because there is a lobbyist contract that will be seduced and taxed and anyone can see it. So it reduces the impact of the gray zone. No more lobbying around some semi-lit towers. It stands in the way of quasilobists and informal influences on decision-makers. The law has defined very clearly the lobbying process itself, the conditions which can deal with lobbying and the procedure itself. I believe that the public should have insight into the lobbying process, so that all the prejudices that are involved in our society for this work can be removed. Our proposal for a law is more visible to the Slovenian bill on lobbying. It is good to take good examples of practices from the region. He was introduced to Montenegro four years ago. So we'll be able to exchange experiences in this area and connect in the fight against corruption, but I think it's very important in the beginning to distinguish what lobbying is, and on the other hand, what lobbying is not. Two more very important remarks for the bill. I think the role of the Anti-Corruption Agency is very important, as well as that lobbyists be experienced people with personal and professional integrity. The country's own decision that the law exists shows the country's determination to fight corruption and this law, together with the Alert Act and the Law on the Organisation of the Authority's jurisdiction in countering crime, terrorism and corruption, should, in my opinion, in the coming period, make a significant contribution to the fight against corruption by the Serbian state. As for the Law of Police, Minister Stefanovic, I think these laws are long and thoroughly prepared, that we have a number of new laws, but also that we have amendments and additions to the Law due to the detection of irregularities that the practice has shown. But what is most important for these laws in the field and the jurisdiction of the MUP, I think that Serbia's citizens will be able to feel better immediately after their entry into force. The law on police salaries will correct internal irregularities, but I am sure it will also affect the efficiency of the police themselves, their motivation, career advancement, but also additional security for all employees of the Ministry and their families. The new law on reducing the risk of disasters puts emphasis on preventing, overcoming the restrictions and problems we have faced so far, improving the risk-reduction system, strengthening existing capacities, integrated governance, but also regional co-operation. After the floods that hit us in 2014, nothing is the same in this area anymore. We have become aware and certain that nature chooses neither place nor time when floods, fires, rinks, and therefore high professionality and the possibility of timely response must be the priority of the Emergency Sector. I will use my exposure to point out that the country's investment is very important in this area. I think it must be among the most important priorities, because only in this way is it well-known to the maximum that one dinar invested in prevention reduces seven dinars invested in the problem when it happens. The arms stamping law. After so many decades, we have the opportunity to brand weapons in our country again, that we have the opportunity to become a regional centre in the area. I think it was important for Serbian citizens to point out this and I will support a set of laws in the field of justice and the interior ministry in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48263	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here considering amendments and additions to the laws that the minister has presented to us as one of the, conditionally speaking, revolutions, when it comes to the security of sports facilities. We here, Mr. Stefanovic, have material that says this law on the prevention of violence and misbehavior was brought in 2003, so there were changes in 2007, then 2009, then in 2011 and I'm not counting any further. Anyway, these changes were always explained that it was a way to prevent vandalism in sports facilities. On the other hand, no matter how loudly announced these changes, like this one, violence is still present on sports grounds, in sports facilities. Why? Because it has essentially proven itself through all these changes and through the passing of this law that we are essentially dealing with the consequences. We're not dealing with preventing the cause, we're dealing with the consequences. Indecent behavior and vandalism are just the result of something going on in this society. We can turn our head like a nog, in the sand to put it, but we cannot avoid something that happens in Serbia, which is that vandalism, that violence has taken so much and such a situation that the president of the state himself, Alexander Vukic, said he could not fight that phenomenon in sports stadiums. On the question of journalists, just remember, a while ago, if he could fight everything that's going on in sports stadiums, he said he was powerless. Even then, in his interview, Mr. Stefanovic, the president of your party and Serbia, said the causes are much deeper than those of these young people. You can't remove the cause by prescribing that the stadium door opens two hours before the sports event begins. You can't do that by announcing a revolutionary move, which is that private agencies provide the directorial services. It may be part of it, but it will last for a period that is limited and we will once again have a situation to look at these same sports stadiums or objects in direct or some other transmissions as it takes place before our eyes and manifests everything that reflects organised crime. If, ministers, together with their associates, went after Serbia and asked ordinary people, they would tell you that they were organized gangs and that these are dangerous groups associated with certain levels of government. And then you could react. The basic reason for all of this is the benefit of the leader so-called. a group, their own, their economics, or whatever good you want. This benefit is found in the illegal trade of everything that is highly profitable, which is cigarettes, alcohol, drugs, and a series of other products that bring huge profits to these individuals. And these individuals and these groups, in the end, are not dangerous until they connect to certain levels of government. And we here, the Serbian radicals, show you that there is an indication and there is evidence that one of the government's members is connected to these groups, that it is headed by such groups. And instead of hearing it, to get an answer from you, you're giving your personal opinion. You, Mr. Stefanovic, are the most operational part of the government, along with Mr. Vulin. The most operational minister is the police minister. The police minister, like all ministers in the government, cannot express his impressions as solid proof that it is or was not so. You need to back it up with facts. The interior ministry must answer and say – we stand firm behind the fact that there is no evidence. A recording appears in which criminal groups in Novi Pazar, including the leader of first associate Rasim Ljajic, Zajovic, is causing serious injuries to a young man from Novi Pazar, who ends up in hospital. How did the Ministry of the Interior react? That guy who did it didn't do a day's work, didn't answer. Secondly, a while ago, the "NIN" newspaper was sued by Serbian Deputy Prime Minister because "NIN" presented the fact that Brother Rasim Ljajic is one of the biggest drug dealers, or traders in Novi Pazar. He sues Rasim Ljajic, loses the dispute to "Nin". You bring out your personal impression, you say – I personally am not convinced of it. The minister of police can't react like that. It can't be based on claims, yes or no negatives, however you want. The M.O.P.'s got to be an official attitude. The Prime Minister Ana Brnabic can't say – I don't think so. And then we have here a salvo of accusations that we're doing it because elections are for the national council. Well, we don't care, conditionally speaking, about any election. It's a matter of members of the national minority communities they're going to choose. We want to prevent the consequences of all this from getting any bigger. It'll come out eventually. How will you, then, Minister Stefanovic? In a few years, I'm sure you won't be in that position. Then how will you perform in public, to say as police minister -- I didn't know, or as before, the president, who said -- I wasn't informed. He's got to be BIA, he's got to be answering his phone about this. You can't close your eyes because it's a coalition partner of the SNS. Now, that crime that's connected to the government, to the government, it's the most dangerous. And we have unloved scenes at football games, even when they are of international character, that players run towards leaders, ringleaders of these drug gangs, to thank them first for ever having succeeded in life or having scored or won. And that's where you close your eyes. Why? Because in the administration of these same clubs are people who are close to crime and criminal circles. And you keep your mouth shut and you close your eyes, because the property structure of football clubs is very funny, not to say weird. You gave social property, social capital, state capital to individuals to manage it. And what was created? There was an idealism for those who were on the other side of the law, who were involved in crime, who were involved in smuggling, drug trafficking, even murder. You still have today's idealism for Željko Raznatovic Arkan, who first realized that the best money was being laundered by buying a football club, and then the state won't control you at all what these transfers are, how much they pay and in whose pockets they go. Instead, it appeared to dozens of those who run clubs, who sell players, who put money in their pocket, and only when the affair is revealed in Belgium are they managers, that they are sports workers from Serbia and how they are involved in these things, and they are related to transfers. Here these same clubs, which are said to have no money, that they can't function, where the state helps, and that selectively helps what's worst, make them rent private security, which will be directors. Maybe it's good for some clubs that are financially situationed, and what do you do with a worker from Surdulica? What's Tonchev, who barely survives in that same first league, gonna talk about football, because he's the most attractive, what's he gonna do? How will he survive? How is this young man going to play football in that Surdulica if there's more expenses? You don't say there's a video surveillance obligation here, Mr. Stefanovic. Football was created in England and England was one of the states that faced the rights with vandalism, with hooliganism, with this problem and very simply solved. They introduced rigorous penalties, not by not serving alcohol within a mile of a sports facility, but by accurate knowledge that any violation at a sports stadium or an object involves long-term imprisonment, exclusion from social and other measures that are very rigorous. How do they do that? Video surveillance. You state here as an excuse – from 2,500 to 3,000 police officers should be provided. No, you secure in Belgrade around the stadium and the interior of the video surveillance, so based on those videos, when you determine who's the perpetrator of a certain piece, you see if they'll do it another time. You simply make it clear that this physical control will be able to prevent hooliganism. What we do with radicals and what we care about is that in this bill of law on preventing the effects of floods, fires and other elemental disasters... We Serbian radicals gathered in Vojvodina 31.175 signatures to form a centre, a Russian-Serbian disaster prevention centre, the result of disasters, while in Nis giving diplomatic status to those working at the centre. We have encountered a wall of silence, 31,000 citizens living in the territory of Vojvodina are simply ignored, and God forbid some major catastrophes, whether floods or fires, it's too late or in vain to ask who's responsible. When there's a disaster, then we all suffer for it. Secondly, in this proposal you have dualism when it comes to implementing certain orders. You have that in the event of an emergency situation, it is the MUP that will operate, or the MUP sector, and in the case of military engagement, you say that military elders will carry it out. You know, that dualism command we saw, a bad experience from 2014. One command must exist. You can no longer talk by saying – Dikovic, you will go to Sabac. It's a much more serious matter here when it comes to preventing possible consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48265	The word has a minister, Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48266	Let me start with this last question. So Serbia has an emergency headquarters that defines how emergency situations are handled and decisions are made. We and the laws that are before us today define everything that can be and as a negative consequence of action, say, local headquarters, the possibility of taking over by the Republic headquarters, jurisdiction, what is what we need to do to ensure the safety of citizens and it works. The military's engagement is defined separately. So, because military engagement has a special law on it. The constitution defined who could command the military and it would not be good to make precedents, so that at the small door we would introduce that the possibility of commanding an army is entrusted to anyone other than the structures that the Constitution provides, which would not be constitutional, of course, and therefore the military in terms of the military command structure defined by those acts. As far as field operations are concerned, the military, when consent is obtained by those who are competent under the Constitution and the law to issue consent to the operation of the military, may be pre-reciprocated in terms of field activities to others, for example. The health ministry that decides whether, say, certain protection will be done, whether one procedure, two or three will be done. Of course, the military will not operate beyond the regulations defined by the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Agriculture or another ministry dealing with certain parts of protection. As for the Emergency Staff, the Emergency Staff defines tasks, of course, to the Serbian government, which should be fulfilled and thus operates in terms of protection on the ground. However, there is, of course, a good thing that these laws provide for a more precise definition of the jurisdiction of local headquarters, what is it that the Government can take, or the Emergency Staff, the Republic, when we do not have sufficient response, inadequate response in terms of organising the protection of the population in emergency situations. Also, through the Voluntary Fire Department, we define now the existence of new units of voluntary fire companies that can be important to support regular units of fire protection and thus contribute to being among the first to help regular units of the emergency sector in Serbia. As for the other international entities, I must say that recently he was also my deputy minister of the Russian Federation for emergency situations in charge of the work of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre and he is pleased with our co-operation. So, the Russian side is satisfied with the co-operation, we have good co-operation with the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre. It is a centre consisting of two directors, one of the Russian Federation, one of our own, who together make decisions on how the Centre is used and this Center has produced good results, works well and participates significantly in protecting our population, aid in emergency situations. Also, Serbia has joined the European Civil Protection Mechanism and this mechanism has been very useful during the 2014 flood, because we want to show that in protecting our population we do not choose from whom we will receive help, but we are looking for help where we think it is most effective to get it. What is very important to us is that we rely most on our own forces and that is why we have formed a centre that will serve as training for firefighters, where, in fact, firstly, the competition is now being chosen by firefighters, a completely different system than before, there is special training for fire-saving units and a centre that we will fully develop in the coming years. It's starting to work, but we're gonna need more resources to modernise it. It will certainly be one of the best in this part of Europe, where, using our own knowledge, we will be able to train others, not just members of our country's fire rescue unit, but of course, of course. As for violence, as far as the stadium is concerned, as far as hooligans and criminals are concerned, I've always been against the fact that, of course, normal people who go to the stadium to root out with criminals, and that's what we talked about here in parliament. I think everyone understands what that's supposed to be. I agree that one of the most important measures, we did not use this law to say that we have done this change and supplemental thing that will solve all the problems completely. This law deals with certain segments and failures in some of the previous times that we had in the operation of the directorial service, because anyone who is the organizer... Can't be the police responsible for all the other people in this country. The kid's starting to get high. The police are to blame. No, it's your fault. You didn't pay attention to your child. Someone can't be responsible if he organizes a sports event where he makes money and someone else gets everything for him. I'm sorry, but pay for it. You take it nice and you hire 1,000 directors, 2,000, 10,000 directors. You organize as many directors as you need and with this number of directors you will ensure that there is no contact between groups that can be risky. You have estimates of the risks involved in the MAP. So it's part of the job, and part of the job is to assess the risks. Sednet, you make a nice deal, you say -- there's a risk here, here, the fans of this club can get in touch with the fans of this club, that's where we're going to put the wire fence, we're going to put 500 directors, we're going to disable their contact. We're going to exercise control. So, how do fans get torches into the stadium? Well, they don't bring it in the day they go into the sports event, because they're subjected to rigorous searches. These torches are brought in by people who are close to clubs, people who are close to redistributory services. When we get professionalized, there won't be torches, there won't be firecrackers, there won't be cannon strikes, there won't be any objects that can't be found at sports events. When there is, of course, a disturbance of public order and peace in some larger scale, the police are there to respond and the police respond. We've arrested by game often, I get those reports, 50, 100, 150, 200 faces. Now, that's what Mr. Jojic says, it's a key question why we have failures in getting these people arrested sharply, sharply, sharply, severely sanctioned. When the first ones are sentenced to five, seven, 10, 12 years in prison, the second one will consider whether they will ever resort to violence, whether to fight, whether to throw stones at the police, whether to roll over a car. We have reduced this violence compared to some previous period, where there have been significantly more and injured and injured, etc., but we have not completely stopped it. The fact is, I agree with the use of cameras. We're going to stimulate, we're going to look, and we're going to, we're now entering a major investment project that will install a larger number of cameras, by the end of next year over 1,000 cameras on the territory of the very city of Belgrade, which will allow facial and tablet recognition and which, in fact, will increase security on the street in a very serious way, because it's going to be very difficult for you to appear from somewhere without knowing where you came from. I agree, not only the use of technical means, therefore, but the rigorous and consistent application of all these standards in courts, in court proceedings. I don't influence, nor can I tell the judges what they're going to do, but I would always ask them that if they have and see it as a single social danger, as it is done in other countries, you've told England well, yes, but because these judges have pronounced dragon sentences. We have good laws. Here, I always take as an example the law that entered into force in June, 1st of June 2017, a law that allows illegal weapons and ammunition to be sanctioned from two to 12 years in prison. You, then, can also give someone 10 years in prison for carrying illegal weapons. The first time he gets, and I haven't heard of a 10-year sentence yet, when the first one gets 10 years, six, seven, doesn't matter, for illegal carrying a weapon, when he's not asked for a way, let's ease his sentence, when the first one gets that kind of punishment, I'm sure everyone else will think he'll ever carry a gun illegally. As for protective equipment, we get protective equipment, we get it this year and next. My goal is that there are no injured, no citizens, no cops. Of course we've made progress, but I appeal to people who come to the games, because that's how more fans will come, because people who really want to bring their kids to watch these games, to watch sports events, to think about when the stones get caught, when first they throw themselves at that rock, what they're causing next. Because it's a really terrible thing to hit someone with a stone in the head, in the knee, in the face, in the body, what consequences people leave behind. It's just, kind of, like you're not thinking about it. Well, they're not cops, they're not clay pigeons, and they didn't fall off Mars. I know you understand that, these cops are ours, our neighbors, friends, relatives, brothers, people who live amongst us, normal people, citizens of our country, and come there to do their job. Then someone comes and throws stones at them. It's pointless. I don't see the point at all. It seems to me that some people are coming, it's not a large number of people, but some people are coming to the stadiums to fight with the police. We arrest them and then they get either criminal or very mild punishments. It's incomprehensible to me, I can't explain it to the cops to tell them tomorrow and ask me – Minister, why it's so, I can't, I'm not a judge, I can't determine it. I will propose what my intensities are, here I will propose to Minister Kuburovic certain amendments to laws that are not within the jurisdiction of the MUP, but are from the domain of the justice ministry that will primarily sanction criminal acts and violations with elements of violence. My idea is to introduce a regulation that will allow for a step-by-step punishment, so to speak, something like a regulation that would call me a three-point regulation, in the sense that for each of the next repeated criminal acts identically, with elements of violence, a significant increase in the penalty. For the first act of six months, for the second five years, for the third 20, that whoever decides to hit someone with a baseball bat to realize that for the third time, they're going to go to jail and they won't come back from it, that it's going to take so long. It's simple to introduce a kind of sanctions that will guarantee punishment, especially a returnee in criminal acts with elements of violence. I'm sorry, you can't hit someone with your fist every other day and make it all right. You can, but then you need to go to jail and do it on serious prison terms and simply in some way, we'll consult, of course, with the Justice Department what's possible, because I don't want to go out with them, and we're going to come up with concrete solutions, but the idea is, and we're starting to prepare it in our ministry, and the idea is that in all the broken and criminal acts with the elements of violence, we're going to do that kind of punishment that repeating the crime will be sanctioned in dragons and that it's a fact very important thing. We, of course, have prepared an initiative to amend the Criminal Code which we will refer to the Ministry of Justice, which should facilitate the work of police officers, but which will dramatically sanction those who resort to violence. That's our first priority. When we passed a law that, I say, struggles with domestic violence which is a major problem, because it's a very complex matter, we have now succeeded after a certain time and you see that we have stopped the trend of the number of crimes. I always pointed out this on the Committee when we talked to Mrs Obradovic on the Committee on Internal Affairs and Security, the only crime we had a really big problem with that in the last two or three years, four, in continued growth was domestic violence. When we passed the law, of course the first months of law enforcement showed the reality of the situation on the ground and how much we had to take. It shows that we brought it in at the right time, in the sense that it was a moment when it should have been, of course, before, but that was the moment when we had to do it and that we now managed to stop the trend of growth and that we had the beginning of the decline in the number of crimes committed. Of course, plus prevention, plus working with people etc. Why am I saying that? Because I think the same principle must be applied to this kind of violence at sports events and violence at all. When it's tough, dragonish, when we give it what we gave, powers to the police, because I've always said, everyone expects a police solution, but there's no authority for the police to work. Give the police the authority to work, and then ask for results, replace, punish and criticize. When a cop can't do anything, it's the easiest thing to say - well, the police aren't good, and then he says - you can't do this, you can't do this here, you're looking for this. You know, when we're looking for sometimes measures to tap a drug dealer's phone, so he's changing it, literally for a few hours, changing those machines. Sometimes it takes us two or three days to get a warrant to tap the phone. Well, he's already changed his fifth phone. There's nothing on that phone anymore. But that's the thing we have to do with the D.A.'s colleagues and the courts faster. We're distracting them right now because it's not a whim, it's just an operational need. Because of that, I don't want to be incorrect, and these people understand that very well just to ensure respect for security, security, human rights, data protection, all of that is a very complex mechanism. That you have everything, what's meant to be safe and respected, and that you get operational use that's fast and efficient. So I believe that, and I'm really grateful for these discussions, because I believe what you're saying as very well-intentioned. I really understand it that way, I'm telling you honestly, I've known you long enough. We are talking about an important topic for our country and this kind of dialogue is useful for the reason that I think it leads to the result that public attention is first turned to what we have to do, what we have done and public support is created for these rigorous, dragonous moves that I think we have to do, because it's simply unthinkable to me, I'm not sure if I would take my child away. My daughter is not seven years old, I'm not sure if I'd take her to a party, risking if she's going to be there, nothing has to happen to her, just so she doesn't watch an incident or something to ask me tomorrow – Dad, what is this? I don't know what to explain to her. So I think, even though we've done a lot of work on it and there have been colleagues, let's say, we now have criminal judges in stadiums, prosecutors, all the people who are actively involved in this process are not enough. It's obvious it's not enough, it's still got to be. So we're going to suggest, we're already working intensively on it, we want it to be something that's real, so it's not just a hollow story, a list of some nice wishes that I deliver to Nelly and say, "let's get it into the law now, and they say, "How do we do that?" That's why we do as we always do with the Department of Justice, to come up with solutions that will meet these standards that we want and that are realistically possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48267	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48268	Look, Minister, this is about the next one. This is all you've been saying, these are the most important measures that are being taken. This is where it's supposed to act preventively. It seems preventative by developing so-called. Service of Analyticals. The intensity, when it comes to riots, riots, hooliganism, that more and more perpetrators are minors. When it comes to drug dealing, drug trafficking, it's a growing number, unfortunately, underage faces, children. If done analytically, if certain groups and individuals are monitored and classified as so-called. critical groups, then picturesquely, to make it much clearer, so a child who, as a minor of 15 or 16 years of age, has been involved in dealing or any other type of crime, is being monitored when it becomes full-aged, some measures are being taken at these public gatherings, such as stadium spaces and sports grounds. You have to take care of people like that. It has to be monitored, that's the point. The English were successful in this because they knew that criminals had resorted to one deception, deception. They included underage faces, underage children who attacked police officers, who were dealing drugs, who were aggressive, even armed attacks were involved. That's why we have to work. Secondly, if you include UBPOK to review the functioning of football clubs, their incomes, cash flows you'll get some shifts, you'll see how it's done. You know, it's not the point of us finding out that one of the managers or some of the club's managements made some revenue in the football transfer. The state here spends a lot of money, and they get rich in private. What you're talking about paying the directorial service, that's fine, but just to put into security measures, which is to invest that transfer money, to invest a lot of money in preventing hooliganism.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48269	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48270	Here, I join them and invite them also to invest money in the safety of the stadium, to equip them, to train them, to bring people and technical means to make it all at such a level that we fear as little as possible. Because my goal is, I wish I could send in a situation of five cops to get there, walk away during the game, say everything's okay and go back without having to send 500. So, my goal is to reduce the police presence at all sports events, because it's expensive... Let me tell you, about our underage faces, the rate of juvenile crime is down. It's not the case with us, it's not the case with us. Unfortunately, these criminals are age-old, but, especially in the heroin mafia, that degree of silence and imprisonment of these groups is so high. It's not just us, otherwise that kind of prism exists, it's very hard to break through these groups and it takes to find evidence. So it's not our goal to catch just the ones on the street, the ones that are, like, street dealers. Our goal is to get to the network. Those who are involved in the distribution of clubs, I speak within the hooligans, among fans, who deal primarily with drug distribution and participate in other crimes, very rarely alone are those who are at the top of the pyramid, very rarely in contact with anyone. They don't use cell phones, sometimes you can see them in public transport driving by bus. So they're literally trying to spend their lives in such a way that if you looked at the surface, you'd say, well, these people are nice people. In any case, it is difficult for you to tell them – behold, I have proof for them to arrest them. Of course they have people who work for them different actions. The police know that and analysts in that sense exist. It's just, of course, to get quality evidence that they connect to crime, whether they're trying to infiltrate into football schools so they can place their football players who will later sell through the transfer of players and take some money, whether they're going to use their influence in this way, to prove it and that it can stand firmly in front of the court and get a quality epilogue. What is the first step and this violence that we can easily document at sports events, committed violence, immediately arrested, immediately convicted, headed for maintenance on the same day. We even resorted to the Department of Justice to go as far as possible, to talk more serious, where there is no crime, but there are elements of the offense, but to immediately be convicted and to be able to go 60 days or 90 days in prison and for a minor offense, and that we immediately have a sanction that the others will see no discount. There's no giving in. That's where the courts can help us a lot, and I believe that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48271	Comrade Mircic, Mr. Minister has agreed with you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48272	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking about important topics. This is indeed one set of extremely important laws for all of our citizens, I would say, life laws, those that concern the everyday lives of people. A moment ago, we had a discussion of one that encouraged me to talk first about this law, about something that was important to our people and to citizens who are often, I would say, very scared when some violence happened at sports sites. People wonder how it is for those who commit violence to repeat it and how we fail as a state 30 years ago to finally deal with it in the right way, not to repeat it. Here, we heard well from Minister Stefanovic everything the police are doing to prevent violence and, of course, when the violence happens, what measures the police are taking to stop the violence and bring the wrongdoers to justice and we know where what is in the system is holding back and I am confident that we will have enough power both as a society and as a state to deal with, as they did, of course, modern European countries. I've had the chance, and unfortunately, to attend violence at the games more than once, because as a Partizan fan, I regularly go to games. I was also with my older daughter on a derby when there was a riot. I can tell you that unlike the period maybe until 2012, the police did do their job in a professional way. That's where the gendarmes deserve all the credit. When violence took place in the Western tribune, we who were with small children really had one, I would say, highly correct treatment by members of the MUP, who protected all innocent people in the stands, who were not participants in violence and really acted in the right way to stop the violence. But what is it that, in my deep conviction, as a citizen of Serbia and a MP, we need to assume as a society, means not only as a state? That's what we do first of all in education. It's all coming from the house, from the family. What we learn in the house, what we see from our parents, what we see from our loved ones, from our brothers, sisters, older than us, after we take from small legs from them, we apply it later in life, whether at sports sites, whether at our workplace or elsewhere. We need to influence our parents here, consciously in our people, to teach our children and direct our children really towards what sport is and to explain to them what sport is not. That rivalry did not go to the derby Partizan-Red star, beat someone up and say – here, we won that fight, but rivalry was to encourage your club, without violence, without torches, without any physical force aimed at someone else, without hatred, because it was too much in our society in some decades ago. If it wasn't patriotism whether you hit a cop with a stone in the head or you hit him, because that's our cop, a Serb cop, it's a cop who protects our kids from drug dealers, from rapists, from all kinds of maniacs and lunatics who can threaten the safety of our children. We are here to show them this minimum of gratitude that we can do as parents and as citizens, to teach our children that a police officer is not a bad guy, but he is a positive person in our society that we have to show maximum respect and respect for, and that's exactly what we're going to do by teaching our children how and how they should approach a police officer on the street, how they talk to him, and what they can address a member of the MUP. Of course, here after the impact of the environment in which we live comes the influence of school and society and, I say, we need a constant education of our children, in order to reduce the number of violence among young people in front of us year by year, above all in stadiums. Also, I wanted to talk about the Traffic Safety Act on the roads, where a few of my friends asked me – aman, people, this many traffic tickets, so just to fill the budget, just to take money from the people. I say – if you sit in your car, tie your seat belt, and you're safer, the air bag system will open up, God forbid, if any kind of accident happens, and, therefore, if you respect the law, there won't be any money to charge you as a punishment for a member of the MUP. So if we respect the law by doing no service to the police, we do ourselves a favor, first of all, to protect our lives and our personal safety and the safety of our children. So, when I get in my car, I have to make sure that first of all, by respecting traffic regulations and everything that is prescribed by law, I protect myself, my life, my family's life, and other traffic users as well. In that sense, also our members of the traffic police deserve one understanding and support from the citizens, and those who are drivers and who are not on foot, that by respecting even more traffic regulations will be less than exactly punishment in the state budget. I believe that this is certainly the goal of both Minister Stefanovic and his associates, to charge as little penalties as possible, because it will be the best result that the police want, less injured, less injured, less accidents on the roads. I had a neighbor, unfortunately, who had a man a few days ago, 71 years ago, found himself suffering as a pedestrian on the Obrenovska road, hit by a driver, determined whether he ran or didn't see it, but that's one black spot he had to pay attention to, and the neighbor told me to pass it on to you, as interior minister, that he should pay attention to that part of the road, you must have heard about that accident, where five or six people died within a few years. They really need to keep accounts and drivers, I'm just saying, and pedestrians to respect traffic signs and laws, to avoid such tragic things happening to us. When it comes to emergency situations, flood defenses, natural disasters, we in 2014, when they were those terrible floods, had really one situation that was completely new to us, where over a million and a half of the citizens were potentially threatened by these floods, and indeed as a society, we showed a high degree of unity and strength, where together with the state, citizens, states and institutions, we reacted in a good way, that military and police members were doing their job to save a lot of people and, I would say, we saved our country a lot more damage and disasters that could result in no such reaction. Such a law as we have today on the agenda that we are discussing will greatly contribute to making society more ready for, God forbid, possibly some future catastrophes that could happen. Of course, there is also the Law on lobbying, which I will point out for the end of my exposure, as something that was beyond the need of our society, above all in the fight against corruption, because I also know some cases that people who would dare, so to say, that some money is being admitted – well, it's for lobbying. That's exactly where we're going to cut the space, say, under the precepts, for this illegal business of taking bribes and corruption, and we're going to keep some things in the frameworks of the law. So I'm sure, here for the end, a whole set of these laws that is good and systemically solves the problems we have is good for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48273	Thank you. The word is a colleague of Alexander Chabrai's. He's not here. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48274	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, ministers, respected guests, a flood that took place in the Republic of Serbia in May 2014, in proportions not remembered for the last 120 years, and which has endangered more than 1.6 million people, or 22% of our country's population, which hit 38 municipalities and which have caused material damage of nearly 1.7 billion euros or 4% of GDP, yet, although it has brought much bad, it has shifted our awareness of disasters to the better. Facing with great danger, it seems to me, has cleared our eyes and we have clearly seen that prevention and preparation is something that is imperative, that we can easily lose not only materially, but also life, most importantly, our life, the life of our loved ones. And, unfortunately, it happened that in that catastrophic flood, about 30 people lost their lives. As a result, today's exposure and I start by commenting on the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, and I am glad that the prevention in this law is highlighted as something that is extremely important. I will remind you and myself of an extremely important fact that even one dinar invested in prevention is equal to seven dinars invested in removing the consequences of accidents, in this case it was a flood. It is therefore extremely good that the new law changes what, that is, we are beginning to think more seriously about prevention and, it seems to me, we are eliminating that consciousness that is not only about this matter, but also about other issues, that we are not fully thinking about some things that are not happening to us, and when they break out, then we are discouraged and we do not know how and in what order of action to react. I am glad that the incentive for the adoption of this law was also the World Conference in Sendai, Japan, which gave the basic impulses, the basic rules and the directions in which to change, change and amend this law. This law is very good for us, too. Given that we are in the process of negotiating with the EU and bringing our laws closer to the European law, it is extremely looking forward to the fact that 95% of the European rules on this matter have been incorporated into this law and that we have practically met all European standards under this law. And I remind you, as a member of the Committee on European Integration, that Chapter 27 is something that needs to be opened and closed and something that we will welcome very prepared by adopting this law. The aim of this law is to reduce the risk of disasters and ensure timely response to emergency situations. But it seems to me that the most important thing about this law is that with special attention it looks at local self-government, its ingenuity and raises its significance, because the accidents themselves happen in the locals and how we react to the locals is the most important thing, whether we are going to resuscitate the disaster or it will expand. This is what we saw, that the 2014 flood was spilled from the environment, from the Republic of BiH to us and that as a region we were hit and forced to work together. It is precisely this law that improves international co-operation. It is specified in which way and in which order should be reacted, and that is a good feature of this law. What I really like and which gives greater authority to local self-government is one newspaper that's been passed in article 50 under this law, which so far has not been a rule, which is that local self-government can set up professional fire departments. It wasn't possible by law so far. And, of course, it can all happen under permission and a plan signed by the resolution minister, in this case Minister Stefanovic. I remind you that in Novi Pazar, we had a really bad experience with fires, with fires and you know that a few days or a few weeks ago, we had a devastating fire that our fire department didn't respond to optimally, and that also caused human losses. Unfortunately, three people were killed. As a result, I have sent you an appeal and a request to strengthen the fire department in Novi Pazar, both in men and in equipment. I'm glad you answered me in writing, but I can see it and it's announced that we're strengthening the capacity in the vehicles ourselves. Obviously, there's one of the main problems. And, as you have already announced, within a certain time, this fire unit will receive two vehicles, one is already from the Vels donation, which is specific characteristics and corresponds to the specific features of the town of Novi Pazar, which has narrow streets and which need these first breakthrough vehicles of specific characteristics. That's what I thank you for. Of course, I must commend the selfless action of citizens who have shown for the millionth time how they defend their city and how they react to their neighbours, no matter who they are or how dangerous they are. What I'm trying to say is that the city of Novi Pazar has really struggled with various verses, and it is really an example of good reaction or superior reaction in emergency situations, both he and his crisis staff. We've had problems with floods before, and, you see, and with these fiery verses, we've already managed to build 12 dams of anti-erosive, to deal with the floods that threatened the city in several cases. It was co-ordinated with the help of the city, with the help of the World Bank and the "Serbia" about 1.6km of the Raška River in the industrial zone. The value of this was 2.2m euros. (Miss Radeta: I'm asking you to let me speak. It's really impossible to talk here about throwing these people who don't know about decency and cheeks. If you can let me speak, or I can pick myself up and go. Here, they get me all the time, threatening me, cursing me, making no sense. This doesn't make sense. I'm not afraid of them, of their lies, of their rude things.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48275	I ask my fellow MPs to allow my colleagues to complete their discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48276	I'm very politely discussing the laws. I ask the President and the Chairman to give me silence, to explain the law in his details.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48277	Go on, fellow Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48278	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have just wanted to show you how serious and responsible people behave, university-educated at state colleges with the best averages and proven in their professions, in their jobs, and what desire they have to change this country, to contribute to the laws and laws passed by the police and by the laws of the judiciary, one of the state's views, polite attitudes, polite arguments, in no way to fraud, by not making any untruth, and not at all at the time when this law is prohibited under the conditions of elections for national councils, in this case for Bosniaks. I think this has gone too far, and I think the citizens of this country should be punished in the next election. I'm talking about a law that's very good, and it's a law about also voluntary fire companies. We have debated and prepared the possibility of a new law like this, which is European practice. As Social Democrats, we support all European values and we are in the European integration of this country. Once again, I want to say that we will support all these affirmative and positive laws, we will be defended by every nationalism and primitiveism, and now and in the future, we will be the defense of all that is bad, which unfortunately, some are trying, accusing honest and honest people, to show for their own personal interests, financial, political, whatever, we will be defending such things. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has always inherited these values, the values of anti-fascism, the values of brotherhood and the common co-existence of the people, and of course, we advocate to present all the details you have, about all the ministers, but for God's sake, say something about these MPs, and about some other people who really need to be ashamed of what is behind them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48279	Comrade Bačevac, bring the end and exit the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48280	So I call upon the minister to freely publish everything he has on all the people on the political scene, and to God, and to those who play here the opposition, and not too often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48281	Thank you, Comrade Bacevac. (Miss Radeta: Replica. On what basis, my colleague? (Miss Radeta: How on what basis? He's been calling on what I've been saying all along. No, not at all. Then according to the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you my word, but please don't drag the National Assembly into an election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48282	Please, I have the right to a replica, because it was obvious that Mr. Beachvac, if that's his last name, had been speaking all along about what I was saying in that previous part. But something really doesn't make sense to me, he's at the beginning of his presentation for the National Minority Councils, about the election for those councils, which we haven't talked about at all, and he's finally saying they're like, "Social Democrats." Now, our question is, are they a national minority party or are they a Social Democratic Party? Or when they need it, when they go to the polls themselves, then because of the easier conditions to go to the elections, they are a party of national minorities, and when they are on the Social Democratic Party at Vukic's election list. That's not how it works. You can't, you know, be the Bosniak Party in the morning and the Social Democratic Party in the afternoon. Please, just 10 more seconds to ask Minister Stefanovic... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48283	That can't be according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48284	Didn't I get a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48285	You're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48286	You haven't noticed that I've replicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48287	No, no, no. I know exactly who I gave you, and you've also advertised Article 27...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48288	Okay, here's what I'm doing. I'm advertising Article 32 below, just 10 seconds, so I don't pick up again, you know, or else I can do it again, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48289	Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48290	Here I go. To ask Minister Stefanovic, he was not a minister in 2011, but to see in his services that they had not cheated on him, that they had not hidden something from him, that they might find information about the MUP action called "Geto". That's when the police in New Market... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48291	Thank you, colleague Radeta, two minutes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A lot of things that don't make sense. But to respond to the 27th and 30th advertising you've already said... ? I had the discussion of my colleagues, Bačevac, as a national MP, who is from the Social Democratic Party and is a member of the minority people of Bosniaks. Totally legitimate. There's no... I don't know if his party ever went to elections as a minority party, as members of a minority people. I know that they were at the elections in Koserić and that they came out on their own, as a party belonging to the majority people and won the mandates. Do you want the Assembly to plead in the voting day on this matter. The word is from a colleague, Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48292	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, Dr. Minister, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia delivers an emergency procedure within three days, more than 20 days, and 25 proposals to amend and supplement the law, and only to the citizens very briefly say that today we should talk about what degree of corruption Serbia is living in, what is the situation in the judiciary and how we choose judges and deputy prosecutors, about free legal aid. The time that obliges us to talk about the essence, and because citizens are overwhelmed by affairs and everything that comes from the government, they haven't followed what's the essence and time that's coming for me, they make me talk about the most dangerous thing that the government of the Republic of Serbia in parliament is trying to do today, just trying. I hope that there will be enough reason for you to have this kind of danger, because just to remind you all together, the government is changing, and I believe that you are not at this point in your ability to perceive and understand something like that, but every power is changing. If you do this kind of coup on the state and the rule of law, the consequences, I'm not sure you can guess what it'll be like. So it is very clear to citizens that the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the processing of personality data can only be specified in very detail by law. The government of the Republic of Serbia, Madam Minister, in a completely incredible explanation, the minister will now quote you, because believe me, none of us are able to interpret and repeat something like this. So, the government chooses to have particularly sensitive data, which is the data of a person who must, if a particular area has to be taxed, if some area must not have room for abuse, this is the area, and the Minister is coming and saying – leaves the possibility to pass other laws that will be restricted to rights, but the rights will be restricted only by this law. I'm not sure if you're aware of what you're actually saying. And what is this about, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, citizens, citizens? It is about where the legal restriction that police, which is made to intelligence agencies, which have thousands of entities, which in any way have information about each of us, information about each citizen and citizen, allows them to use these rights as they come to mind, to enable them to restrict citizens' rights regardless, or to throw out of this law - the law. What does that mean, and why was it thrown out? Since you've tried to offer some argument that's contradictory, pointless, which is not based on the law, I'm asking you to answer the following. If you throw out the word - by law, it means that by discretion, in any way, who can determine exactly how the rights of citizens will be limited? In what case? What are these restrictions prescribed? These are information that you have not given to us but to the citizens of Serbia. You know, when the government of Serbia, when it decides to take a word out of the law - the law, it speaks very clearly of the very clear intention, which is that this law is passed in the interest of the BIA, not in the interest of the citizens. We had an amazing case three weeks ago and Minister Stefanovic, I'm talking to you now. You said why fellow MPs weren't on the Security Control Committee, that's a perfectly legitimate question, but it's absolutely not about that. Mr. Chief of BIA, as the authority of the institution represented, in front of the prime minister, did not say such things to MPs at a closed session, he told citizens that individual representatives of opposition parties, individual media representatives, individual representatives of NGOs and unions are the most serious danger to the security of the Republic of Serbia. After our repeat questions that you and the citizens of Serbia and us who represent them, answer on the basis of which information is so informed and what does that mean? You, instead of answering, come here with amendments to the Personal Data Protection Act, where the word "law" is thrown out. This is a law where citizens' rights will be absolutely threatened and abused. We are now witnessing the fact that medical data, patient data, and data specifically needed to be protected, end up on the front pages, in the tabloids because someone tried to deal with some citizen who objected to anything. That's not the point. Today, we have a situation where someone with an institution of institution's authority accuses, saying that someone is the greatest security risk. What can Serbian citizens expect when this is adopted, when this comes into effect? You owe them answers. I appeal to all together, fellow MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48293	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48294	Let me just finish my sentence, if that's allowed. ... that this law, I warn you now, I don't think you are aware of the consequences that stand before all of us, is not being brought into the public's interest. It's brought exclusively in the interest of the government and the security services.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48295	The word has a minister, Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48296	I think the best situation was when such important questions should be asked precisely to the people who gave those sentences. These people come to this House of the National Assembly and sit on the assembly board and give opportunity to all the MPs, members of that committee to resolve them questions, and then those people who can come to ask them, don't come and ask themselves why they didn't come? Why were they not interested in what was the most important issue for the security of Serbian citizens? They're not interested in it, then, because there's no way to make a media spectacle out of it. Then, when they're not there, when they're not there to answer, then these questions are unmistakably asked. It will be Mr. Gasic, back in the National Assembly, coming to the board, sitting down to talk. He'll come and answer all your questions. It's nothing as controversial as he's come before, as I have. Here are colleagues who are witnesses, after all, MPs of the opposition. I haven't missed any committees to come by and lay down the accounts of the National Assembly Committee, to discuss our reports. After three, four hours, we have sessions. We answer any possible and impossible questions that have nothing to do with the subject, but we answer, because we believe that MPs should first know. When sensitive information, of course they can't be shared with the public, because then it's pointless. What kind of service does the world or committee do? What is a key question here - we had the opportunity to respond directly to the specific questions put on them, to clear it up, and to allow MPs to publish it later in public, to say this - here we were told, of course, what can be said. They told us that, they didn't tell us that, they answered or didn't answer, we're satisfied or we're not satisfied, but it's incomprehensible for these people to come to the board's meeting and then no one to ask them anything. What are they supposed to do? They're supposed to go sit in some TV studio and wait for a phone call to answer? I don't know what. They came to the National Assembly, where they belonged. BIA people are supposed to answer to the National Assembly Committee, and they did. No one asked them anything, and those people obviously thought there were no more questions. No questions asked. Then there's nothing unclear about me anymore. They came, they said -- okay, we came to talk, no one asked us anything, so it's all clear and people went back to their jobs to work. We're waiting for the next chance, when they come back, that board will probably not be there for some reasonable period, as we come every few months, answering all the questions and answering all the points of the agenda. Nela Kuburovic will surely take the floor now, but she has repeated the same thing so many times today and I think there is no one left in Serbia who is not clear anymore. So, non-stop is going through something, the exact same thesis, non-stop, non-stop, non-stop. No matter how many times that woman explained that it was defined by law, that it was defined by the Constitution, that it was defined by regulations, that only the law could limit, a thousand times the woman repeated. I listen to these discussions and as if today the woman was neither in the Assembly nor anyone else was in the Assembly, but in any case, Serbian citizens heard an explanation a hundred times. We have one practice that certain representatives of the independent, under the allegations of independent, regulatory bodies announce about six months to one year before the end of their mandate that they will deal with politics, enter political waters, of course deny that they will ever run for office, then run for office, and then, after leaving their post, although previously in some previous periods they were political officials of certain parties, start to deal with these independent activities, because they have probably become completely new people, change that morning and there is nothing, and then end the mandate and you already know, before the end of the mandate, while still in office, you know now that they will be the first day after leaving the mandate or 18 or 180, anyway, to join these political parties and to deal with this kind of activity and then ask themselves how we can trust in their good will and that they do something better to carry out their opinions? I don't think so, but they have a right and we don't dispute their right, but neither can anyone challenge our right to stand up to it. We have a different opinion. Here, I don't mean like these people, but it's at the National Assembly in the end to judge who's right. It is up to the National Assembly to decide whether the Law will be passed, with any changes, or there will be no changes or will be any changes. It is in the people's congregation to decide, for the people have given legitimacy to you who are the Messengers of the people. You and all of us have chosen, and we who are members of the government and those people who need to report to the National Assembly, all of us. These people need to understand the source. No one from independent regulatory bodies can come and say this is not constitutional. Well, it can only be the Constitutional Court. Don't let these people take on more jurisdiction and power than they do under the law. Who are they to decide the constitutionality of something? Imagine if the minister would say this is constitutional or not constitutional? Who gives a real minister? Who's the minister to say that? Only the Constitutional Court can do that. The Constitutional Court is the one who can bring... When the trustee brings a solution, it's not a holy letter. The Administrative Court can take that solution down. It is the court who, in the final instance, decides whether something is legal or not, not such or such as ministers, or independent authorities, or anyone like that. The court and that's why we fought and you see what the Justice Department has done. It is a great effort and great work invested and along with the judges and the High Council of the Judiciary a great deal of work to change everything that was bad. Well, we used to have politically placed all the living possible judicial authorities. Here, he showed one of our colleagues in the National Assembly a pattern as elected by the judge - the opinion of the president of the municipality and the chairman of the municipal board of the then ruling parties. It's about to be a drawing of a character and a photocopy of a membership card. There was probably a number of membership cards in that party of him or a member of the family. That's what was wrong and that's why we had criticism not only of the opposition in Serbia at the time, we had criticism and the EU was saying... When you look at the EU report on the situation in Serbia 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, see the reports on the state of justice. After all, look what Verica Barac said about the state of the media, about the state of corruption. See how they managed these areas top-notch in Serbia, what the council then said about it – that in Serbia no longer exists at the time, in 2011, no media that is free, Verica Barac. So the EU and Verica Barac were people who gave the lowest rating possible. Not to the unit, they gave zero freedoms, justice, equality, independence of judicial institutions, the state of media, the state of freedom in society. A great deal of work was needed to ensure that what was destroyed for years, which was sated down to the level that today, as Minister Kuburovic said, the EU said we were doing a good job, the Venice Commission said we did a good job, but not enough. Now it's not enough either. It's not enough what the National Assembly finally says. It's not enough. It is important whether it is said by one former official who will soon be a functioner since, whether he is satisfied or not. That's what our society should be based on. I see that there are some tendencies, and that is one danger that Serbia must resist, cannot be the sovereignty that comes from the people to be replaced by any other transferred rights of certain officials, whoever they are, if they do not have the national sovereignty behind them, if they do not have the support of the people. No one who becomes elected by means of an indirect path, any official, no matter what functioner, here, no minister. We have the sovereignty or legitimacy that the National Assembly gives us, because we are chosen by the National Assembly, but you are the ones who have national sovereignty, and the highest and only directly elected by the people – the President of the Republic. That's how it's in our system. The National Assembly and the President of the Republic. He, chosen directly by the people, and by the National Assembly, who is elected on the parliamentary lists. You must never allow us to come into a situation in Serbia to have someone take our sovereignty by making decisions against the will of the National Assembly by any kind of authority. That's what I'm telling you now, because I see a tendency in other countries, that certain people appear who want to take national sovereignty, to make decisions for the people, contrary to the will of the people. The only one who has the right to make decisions in our country is the people. And whoever said, when the elections come, that people go to those elections, vote, and that sovereignty, that the right of the National Assembly to give its transferred power to the authorities of the executive government, by choosing the government, decides how the country should go and control it. And when he exercises his role in control, to return to our initial topic, when he exercises his role in control, he invites representatives of the staff to the session, then he has the right to examine, resolve and ask. Not that he's making them real, not that he's Satanizing you and not that he's making these people something they're not. These people need to ask at committee meetings, to ask them well, what they have to say, to answer all questions, to give assurances to the National Assembly that everything works in accordance with the law and then that the National Assembly says whether it is satisfied or not. Once again, please never let the national sovereignty of this National Assembly go anywhere else. All others, such as the officials of the people, are obliged to come here before the National Assembly, before its committees and to account, whether they like it or not. Do we like who's in power, to whom the people most trust, pardon, fight for the people's trust? But don't let when someone else can't win the people's trust, that whoever wins it can't exercise that people's trust because someone who's an organ is supposed to do it, I don't know where or where. It can't be like that. In this country our people decide, and that's all that's possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48297	Comrade Vidinovic, so far you have no right to a replica. The word has a minister, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48298	Thank you. Here is one truth that I said had just left the possibility for other laws to restrict the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the processing of personality data, although I specifically said that this law alone, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, is taxing in which situations the rights and obligations of citizens are limited in the processing of data. There is also another untrue, which is that this law is written for a Security Information Agency. I can ask the question – whether preventing investigations, disclosing crimes, keeping records of penalties imposed, protecting the independence of the judiciary, concerns the work of the BIA, or just referring to the work of judicial authorities, i.e. the work of courts and prosecutors, for which it is perfectly normal to have access to all data and that citizens in certain situations are limited to knowing whether these data are processed or not. And exactly the law that you passed in 2009 made it possible for us to have different abuses, to restrict civil law, not only by laws, but also by sublaws. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court has annulled such a provision. It is very symptomatic that the trustee, when he was given the Bill on the Protection of Personality Data, in his opinion, which you can see on his website as well as on the Justice Ministry site, did not indicate anywhere that the provision of a member was unconstitutional. Nowhere is it called for the word “law ” to be stated in this provision, but several days before he saw that the law would be found in the congregation procedure, suddenly there came an ex post mind and it was mentioned that this provision was unconstitutional. I repeat again -- it is likely that it is running for the future Constitutional Court judge, so it is proposed that the applicants take it into account, given that new judges of the Constitutional Court are elected next year, so perhaps Mr. Sabic intends to be someone who will be involved in the assessment of the constitutionality of the law. And what is very important, which I must say and that citizens know, for the first time in this law and how the rights of citizens are spread, because they are given the possibility of judicial protection, that if there is any kind of suspicion that their data is being misused, that they do not have to wait for the trustee to respond and depend on his decision, they can already directly seek protection from the court. It's something the Commissioner has been up against for the entire public debate period, so I wonder why, does the Commissioner think he's above the court or not, since the court needs to reconsider his decisions. I am very responsible and I very much believe that the law we have proposed is fully with European standards and it is not just my opinion, that is the opinion of the European Commission, which gave a positive opinion on this law, which is fully in line with both the Regulation and the EU Directive and I believe that if someone thinks that we are violating these human rights, they would certainly not give Serbia a positive opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48299	Thank you, Minister Kuburovic. (Maya Vidinović: Replica. Yes, but no one mentioned you. I was listening, I was in the O.R. (Maya Vidinović: everyone had one. ) I would give you my word, but since my colleague Arsic didn't hear it either, and I didn't hear it, I can't continue by giving you a replica and he's estimated that in accordance with Article 104 you have no right to replication. Wait, please, next chance. Have an understanding. The word is Maja Machužića Puzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48300	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at first I would like to commend the set of laws that are on the agenda today, especially the laws that are being proposed for the first time today, which is now being passed in this Assembly, and this law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management, the law on critical infrastructure and the law on voluntary fire, free legal assistance and lobbying. By serious work on preparing and adopting the new laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of which you have shown that you are concerned about increasing safety and improving the quality of life of citizens and citizens of Serbia, acting preventively, rather than waiting, as some of your predecessors over the past ten years, to have a problem, and then to react and act when the damage has already been done. Today, as a fireman of Serbia's Fire Department, I will specifically refer to the Law on Voluntary Fire that was first brought to Serbia, and is particularly important for the security of our citizens and citizens. This law will establish a system of registration and control of voluntary fire companies by the MUP, and only for those companies that own an operational voluntary fire department in their composition, and that will also enable the massification of voluntary fire companies to be dealt with by younger people, as well as the quality of training of those people, which I hope is recognised as an existing problem, this law will solve it. The Voluntary Fire Department Act will allow voluntary fire-fighting companies to form as some kind of organisations that have served in the previous period of everything and everything, but to react in the event of fire-fighting, which will essentially have a vehicle unit, which has sufficient conditions, which can also be involved in helping the population in the territory in which it is formed. The law will also allow the creation of voluntary fire companies, in particular, of an operational character whose members are willing to participate not only in fire-fighting, but also in other emergency situations where necessary and where assistance is needed by professional units of the MUP, or the Emergency Sector, to be as effective as possible in combating these elemental disasters. What made me particularly happy, and what Minister Stefanovic mentioned yesterday during the presentation, is that the equipment of the fire department will be updated and replaced with a new one, and that the old one, which is still in office, will be allocated to new voluntary fire companies. No matter what some MPs, I repeat again, of course, when they stop by the Assembly, the opposition demeans the adoption of these laws that are on the agenda today. I would like to point out the special importance of this law that I am talking about in the city of Kraljevo, where I come from, which extends to as many as 1,500 square miles [1,500 km] and in which about 130,000 people live, where emergency situations have been in the last decade almost every day. Earthquake that took place in 2010 with human casualties, huge material damage, 2011, 2012, 2017, huge forest fires that burned over 400 hectares of forest. Large floods in 2014 and 2016 A city not only devastated by the functioning of a yellow family in an economic and cultural sense, but also devastated by various natural disasters. A city in which voluntary fire companies are needed, above all, operational character, whose members are ready to participate in fire-fighting and other emergency situations. I can't help but mention that in the city of Kralje it works at this point about a dozen voluntary fire departments that help in emergency situations of the Emergency Sector, which is only about 60 professional firefighters. I would also mention a voluntary fire company, which is a voluntary fire company of Kraljevo with a very long tradition that has existed since 1931 and which cherishes and preserves the tradition of voluntary fire-fighting in the Kingdom, but also in Serbia, which is very active in the operation, but also in the formation of other voluntary fire companies on the territory of the city and in which a woman section is formed last year, which today numbers more than 44 members with high professional equipment. They carry out various preventive actions in the city, starting with "A House Without Fire", and also youth education, conducting a knowledge quiz in the area of fire protection for primary school students and many activities in prevention and preventive action. Although prevention is one of the key activities of this voluntary fire company, I must mention that their members were active participants in eliminating the consequences of all mentioned elemental disasters. Let me once again explain to you the need for voluntary fire departments to exist in the territory of a city like the King. In order to report fires to the city of Kraljev, a professional fire department, reacts in certain parts of the city, it takes an hour to drive. You can imagine what would happen, let's say, with one rural household within the hour of the fire. It is precisely in such situations that it is very important to have a voluntary fire-fighting society and it is important to mention that this law will regulate not only the functioning of these voluntary fire-fighting companies, but also the functioning of alliances, youth clubs, the rights of members of these voluntary fire-fighting units and many other things related to voluntary fire-fighting. I hope that by passing this law and this set of laws, not only will strengthen existing voluntary fire companies, but a new one will be created and formed that will increase the security of citizens and citizens of Serbia. And finally to underline once again, I would like to commend the Ministers for a set of laws on the agenda today, their work and efforts to prepare and adopt such a proposal in this assembly. Thank you, and in voting day we will, of course, support this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48301	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48302	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the bill I will first speak of is the draft law on free legal aid, because citizens are primarily very interested in adopting this law, but on the other hand it is also about a new law that will, in a concrete and complete way, resolve the issue of free legal assistance. We are now in a situation where free legal aid is not equally available to all citizens or is not available to some citizens at all, we are in a situation where there is no information that would allow the effective management of the system of free legal aid, when there is no quality control of the services provided, and on the other hand, free legal assistance providers are not sufficiently motivated. These are all means that the legal framework of the system of free legal assistance needs to be built as soon as possible. Of course, the adoption of this law will create new costs for the state, and the problem should be seen on that side. Therefore, there will be new costs for doing administrative work in the ministry itself, but also on behalf of paying compensation for providing services for free legal assistance. Sources from which free legal aid will be financed will be the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budgets of the unit of local self-government, but this proposal provides a solution that some other sources, such as those, may be. donations. What I would point out at this point is that in order to provide secondary free legal assistance, this payment will go to the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget 50% and 50% on the burden of the budget of local self-government units, which continues to say that the government of the Republic of Serbia is making sure that the budgets of the local self-government units do not overload. What is important is to point out who has the right to free legal aid. These are the citizens who meet the conditions for social assistance, but they are also citizens who, if they paid for a service, would put themselves in a position to have to use social assistance or child support. So these are the citizens who belong to vulnerable categories of the population. Also, there are precise cases in which free legal aid will not be granted, as well as cases in which this provision of services can be terminated and thus will systematically address the issue of free legal aid. Furthermore, when we talk on the other hand about proposals from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior, I would like to say that this time too, these proposals will have my unreserved support, first of all, because the successes that exist and which are made by the MUP are seen on a daily basis. First of all, we see that employees have much better working conditions, which means that it also provides protection to citizens in a better and more efficient way. Since there's a lot to talk about, I'd just like to set aside some of the most general things. So in the first half of the year the total crime was reduced by about 3%. The number of reported crimes in the family has been reduced by 7.5%. The number of criminal charges against property has been reduced by 12.3%. The number of crimes in the area of juvenile crime has been reduced by 9.4%. So compared to last year, these data are much better and are currently talking about the results of the work and the successes of the MIP. Not only that, but concrete examples of the proposed changes and additions that can be reflected in the practical application of the law are in favour of supporting these proposals. What I would point out as an example of one of the good proposals for which the MUP is responsible is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. This proposal will introduce new phenomena that had not previously been incriminated, making the process of facial processing easier and curbing violence in relation to sports events more adequate. Also, when we are in the field of concrete examples, it is closer to being determined for example. no-sale or alcohol consumption zones when holding sports events. So, due to time, I will end up with really good examples now ahead of us that will be well applied in practice, proposals for legislation that will certainly be supported by SNS MPs in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48303	Thank you. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48304	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we have had plenty of opportunities today to hear about the legal proposals proposed by the Ministry of the Interior and what the Ministry of Justice has given and I think these laws have waited a long time for precisely what was needed to solve the big problems that had accumulated for years precisely irresponsible, inadequate behaviour of the state of all governments by 2012. We had the opportunity to see, let's say, when we talk about the laws relating to emergency management that the laws were passed in 2009, 2011 and 2012, that they did not adequately respond to the situations that happened, let's say, in 2014. At that time, 1.6 million people, their lives, or their property, which was defended by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all available funds, institutions, then 119 municipalities in different ways at different levels. The damage then, since May 2014, has been 1.7 billion euros. So it was really necessary in the shortest time to change the functioning mechanism at all when we talk about emergency defence situations, not just from floods, but also those situations that are possible as challenges to arise in the future. Based on such bitter experiences, I think that a quality law today is before us Members here and after all the resolutions that were to be completed in a certain short period of time, because it is necessary to bring back people who were moved from their homes to their homes, adapt, even rescheduled cities and municipalities. I think it was a great experience, especially for the citizens of Serbia, but also for the institutions that should do this kind of work. When we talk about risk, then we say that we need to predict, in fact, all scenarios possible, adequately create a plan to respond to these situations and therefore the consequences that we need to address should be minimal. So the state is obliged to protect the lives of people, all citizens of Serbia, their property, but also to protect what is state property. First of all, what all Serbian citizens need, such as electricity, a telecommunications system, then institutions such as hospitals, schools, and therefore the state has decided on this model, means to lower responsibility to local self-government. Otherwise, there are two models in the world. One model is a large country with a large population, such as America, China, in some ways Russia, and a part relating to EU countries and all other countries that have realised that all those people closest to citizens of all cities and municipalities, NGOs, local self-government with the help of the military, when necessary, can adequately respond to these risky situations. I therefore believe that this law is according to the way it is set up, and, of course, in accordance with the national emergency risk reduction plan, it has shown essentially that you have introduced visions, or financial mechanisms, on the basis of which the very prevention that my colleagues have been talking about, rather than treating the consequences. It really takes every MP in this room to advocate and vote, no matter which party they belong to. After all, it should be said that when we speak at all about the MUP, each of the MPs should support the always increasing salary of the people doing this job. Their work in every period of time is always very difficult, and what they are paid for is always insufficient, because the degree of risk of their work is higher, because the way they are simply making progress in their services ultimately changes, new directives are being established, new guidelines in both the world and the EU, ultimately both in the region and Serbia, which is defined towards the EU to respect these standards, means much changes. All these changes require a great deal of engagement of these people who have experience under certain rules and need, after all, to accept new rules that need to operate and therefore their work is always very difficult somewhere and should be supported, when it comes to the system of functioning and pay increases, which should always be a positive direction. Also, I think that for this kind of bill, there should be some consensus and support. But what we have a chance to see today is that those who gather as opposition parties around the so-called. The Alliance for Serbia, apparently through the lack of information and manipulation of information in the public, is trying to make all these good proposals that we have today completely turn in some negative context, disinformation the public, and if they can bring fear into our citizens' homes, especially when we talk about, let's say, a law that talks about the protection of a person, about their data, about how, I don't know, there are no exceptions to certain target groups, what we've had more than ten times today to hear the minister say – what target groups are and why they are just about data protection from the importance of individual personalities. We also have some members of institutions who see themselves above the institutions, above this National Assembly, who simply have some information about some individuals, when they acquire, in the ultimate way of pressure, performing their function, then simply release all that information into the public and do not bear any sanctions for it. So today we have to tell the citizens of Serbia what these laws bring, the truth about it and what the benefits are. Today we have had the opportunity to hear about it, but obviously, we will have to face such information in the future when it comes to those who see themselves as some future of Serbia. I think that citizens recognize very well, regardless of the attempt to manipulate public information, who works for the sake of the interests of Serbian citizens and who works for their future interests. Because, in the previous period until 2012, they worked exclusively for their personal interests. This raises a big question today, why, for example, has no law on free legal aid been passed so far? Why hasn't the Lobby Act been passed so far? We the Law on Lobbying, so in public it has again been put on for and against a law spoken of by the UN, means that the adoption of such a law is equal to the fight against corruption. So, in addition to having made such a convention, in addition to being a Council of Europe, 47 countries that made such a decision at that time in 2010 and made about on several occasions, we first made it for ourselves in the fourth round of evaluation of the prevention of corruption in relation to MPs, judges and prosecutors. So, because of their assembly, because of their MPs and made it the European standards of the European directive, they simply recommended to Serbia that a law like this should be passed. So, 2010, 2012, these laws were not passed because there was simply no political will to deal with these topics at all. We as a state are truly responsible today, both the MPs and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state are responsible for all the difficult issues Serbia has been facing for years. And not five years ago, ten years ago, but 20 and 30 years ago. We are really solving these issues in an extremely responsible way, so that in front of Serbian citizens, we are going exclusively with the truth about what Serbian citizens are getting, not only about European integrations, but also the laws in this area, especially when it comes to the judiciary, what we get with Chapters 23 and 24. For this reason, I think that the citizens of Serbia today, which we say when you ask them if they are inclined to be a member of the EU in some future period or are exclusively against the EU, 60% of citizens are declared to be European integration and 23% are solely against it. All of them among the percentages show that they still want certain changes somewhere to feel in their daily lives. It is an indicator of the way politics and SNS are going and that it is moving through the interests of Serbian citizens. That is why I believe that, indeed, when the time comes, all MPs should think about it, and those who may disagree with the policy and the SNS and its coalition partners, to support such proposals legally because they are indeed in the interest of our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48305	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The word is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48306	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, Serbia has the largest economic growth in the region and the largest inflow of foreign investment. I believe that the MUP is extremely responsible, because when a foreign investor decides whether to come to Serbia, it takes the parameters for security and the part that is in the jurisdiction of the MUP. We have significant progress in each segment related to the work of the MUP, 15% is the reduced crime rate compared to last year. We have 45% more people caught in the crime itself, more people arrested in the work of economic crime and corruption, more drug confiscation, so in each part of the progress. Between 2008 and 2012, 608 murders occurred in Serbia, from 2014 to 2018, although there were 400 murders, although the atmosphere was created to kill 100 people each day for some other interests and other political points. What is very important, during this and past government in Serbia, police have never raised their hands on a political indifference. Following Alexander Vukic's convincing victory in the presidential elections, some protests took place that lasted several days. Although the city was safe during those protest walks, none of them could see one policeman on the street. In 2008, the U.S. Ranko Panic, the last person in his life he saw, saw a police officer. What is alarming, it happened several months ago during Mr Martinovic's discussion with one of Tadic's MPs who commented on the subject of Ranko Panic – let it go, it was ten years ago. If he can go to the Ranko Panic family and say, "Why are you crying, let go, it was ten years ago, or why are you lighting a candle and going to the cemetery, let go, it was ten years ago?" I'm just curious about how it would go. It was a time when police broke into the "Borbe" newsroom and questioned the editor "Borbe" why and where she got the information to publish news, and Sasa Jankovic announced that media freedom is present. We had a case recently of a maniac attacking a girl on a GSP bus, and the big help was that bus had security cameras. When we're on the subject of trustees and protectors, we need to remember what Shabic thought about the introduction of security cameras. And they wanted to make a name out of it, a conspiracy theory, and they actually helped expose that maniac. Security cameras have all the buses in all the metropolises around the world, and Shabic would probably have found it via tweets, if he had wondered if someone had listened to him. We listened to everything, we listened to the concerns about Kosovo and the Metohija of those who were suddenly full of Kosovo and Metohija's mouth, and the pockets were even fuller euros. They responded with a sharp statement when they were in power, and the people expected something more. There was much more that the people expected of them and always got the opposite of expectations. When they get together and take away their actions, they stand in those four statements by Jeremic: that parliamentary elections and a referendum with the date he stated, did not happen, that Angela Merkel would not receive Alexander Vukic, they had a meeting the next day, that Vladimir Putin would not receive Alexander Vukic, in a few days he had a meeting and a fourth claim – I did not take the cathary money, the truth is not difficult to conclude from these three. So, when they talk about the security of Serbs in the southern Serbian province, the people concluded one thing – greater sanctity for them are white-worldly expensive hotels and a pair of cataract embassies than Gracanica and the Pećka Patriarchy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48307	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. The word has Vera Paunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48308	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers and other members of the government, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, finds several important legal projects on the agenda of today's session, but I would single out the proposed law on free legal aid. Since the adoption of the current constitution, almost 12 years have passed without some important laws that the Constitution explicitly mentions in the meantime being passed. It is precisely the draft law on free legal aid that falls within that group of laws, as its adoption is foreseen by the Constitution itself, which states in Article 67(3) that the law determines when legal aid is free of charge. Certainly, the absence of this law has so far been a great lack of our legal system. One of the basic principles on which the system of justice should rest is the possibility that any party addressing the courts has an equal chance of expressing its position in the dispute, and this was not rarely the case, if one party does not have enough financial resources to hire professional legal agents, and thus their position was not able to express itself. Despite perhaps too long waiting, it's good that the law is being passed and this problem is being solved. First, Article 4 determines who has the right to receive legal assistance. This was done in a complex way, so that the basic criteria for meeting the conditions for free legal aid were first taken at the same time to meet the conditions for the use of social assistance, and then in the position of the 3rd member, there were also many other cases where the conditions for granting legal assistance would not be exclusively linked to the economic situation of the individual, in cases where the party in the child, refugee, persons with disabilities, asylum seekers and the like. I think that this definition of potential users of free legal aid has been done in one correct way, given the economic situation of the individual himself, as well as his social status in society, or belonging to one of the sensitive social groups. On the other hand, in Article 7. The bill defines cases where free legal aid will not be provided and there are defined those situations which, by the logic of things, conflict with Article 4, economic disputes, registration of legal persons, etc. As regards legal aid, two main forms of assistance and assistance are provided and a set circle of their providers is accordingly determined. In a narrow sense, legal aid will consist of representation, defence and submission operations. In the light of the fact that these are fundamental and important procedural and legal actions, it is logical that they are entrusted exclusively to lawyers, legal assistance services in the municipality and specialised associations, and only lawyers and graduate lawyers can do so. In a broader sense, the law recognized other forms of assistance by calling them legal support, which would include helping fill out forms, assembling public-book documents, intervening in peaceful dispute resolution, providing general information. These actions, given their minor importance, will also be able to be taken over by other prosecutors, public notebooks, MPs and legal clinics at law schools, and these forms of legal assistance through the association available to all persons regardless of whether they meet the above criteria. The free aid procedure will be conducted before the municipal or city authorities of the administration, according to the place of residence of the applicant or the headquarters of the provider. It will be decided by a special person in those bodies within eight days, and in emergency cases within three days, and the applicant will be able to appeal to the Ministry of State Administration's affairs in the event of a negative response. The financing of assistance will either be carried out from the budget of local self-government, and in cases where lawyers and lawyers do so at half the cost will be borne by the municipality or the Republic. A special part of the law also deals with free assistance related to disputes with the foreign element. Dear People's MPs, respected Serbian citizens, I belong to the United Pensioners of Serbia party, which is in its focus to protect and improve the situation of pensioners and other socially endangered categories. I therefore believe that the adoption of such a law is very important for the achievement and protection of their civil rights. Also, this law opens up the possibility that a number of uninvolved lawyers should be employed and involved in the legal system of the state, all of which should result in an improved position of vulnerable individuals. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group will give its support in the voting day for the adoption of this law and other legislative proposals on the agenda of today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48309	Thank you. The word is Jahja Fehratovic. He's not there. Stefana Miladinović, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48310	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Minister, guests from both ministries, my colleague Vladan Zagradinin has today processed several laws from a set of laws in the jurisdiction of the MUP, and I will look back a few minutes on the draft laws concerning emergency situations. Self-management of crises under way in previous decades, of course, because modern society brings numerous challenges, risks and threats to which it is necessary to bring and adopt a number of new answers. We all testify here and colleague Aleksandra Tomic mentioned that in the past few years we have adopted a number of system laws in the National Assembly and they have all brought exactly these modern, new, modern practices and highlighted prevention as something crucial in the very system of protection and rescue. Emergency events that we have witnessed in recent years and responses to them, above all I mean ad hoc responses and public services and other entities of the system, have pointed to the need for further development of the overall system of protection in our country. The law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, in fact, its adoption will put off the force of the current Emergency Act, but this new law leaves the foundation of the existing system and introduces some new procedures, regulates in a different way the issues of planning documents and corrects errors and failures in the functioning of the system itself, determines in a different way the responsibility of entities in the system and what is extremely important improves the coordination of public services and the private sector, which is extremely important, especially because of timely, or timely response. The system has so far been set up that each level of territorial organisation has had the responsibility and preparation and response in accordance with the law, i.e. the legal mandate and the operational capacities, which has proved on various examples as if they were not real capacities and local self-governments played a more operational role while the regional level was a kind of mediator. Experiences from 2014 and floods, as well as other emergency situations, have shown the importance and role of local self-government and their response. And in this new law of local administration, they get some new solutions and responsibilities. We agree, i.e. We will support these solutions, something more than that will be spoken by my colleague, Daniela Stojadinović, who in 2014 was the deputy president of the Svilajnac Municipality of Svilajnac, chief of staff for emergency situations and will comment on this law from experience. The role, national or national level itself remains the same, of course, since the adoption of strategies, coordination and supervision of the entire system. The Republic Emergency Staff will go through a national platform, that's something new in this law, and it needs to be emphasized and assembled by the academic community of different entities, representatives of different professional and other associations, which we can all say freely, the modern, modern way of designing a complete system that is part of the national security system. A colleague of Daniela will also talk more about the new Law on Voluntary Fire. The fact that we are discussing this bill is that the state really wants to encourage voluntary fire and some proposed solutions show that we want to affirm exactly this with the public services and units of local self-government. The complexity of emergency situations, i.e. the fact that the concept of emergency situations is being threatened by critical capacities and those facilities and those facilities which are vital to the functioning of the state and society and the world, has therefore developed a system of protection of critical infrastructure. The number of destructive activities is growing daily, and that is what we are all witnessing. They are exhibited in the form of vandalism, increasingly in the form of terrorist activities, various sabotages or irresponsible behaviors. Objects, critical infrastructures are increasingly interlinked and dependent and growing their vulnerability and it is therefore important that the national legislations precisely term critical infrastructure is clearly and defined. It is particularly important to define those critical infrastructures, i.e. facilities, installations, infrastructures that involve a public-private partnership. This has also proved to be quite problematic in world practice, and given that we are just developing in Serbia a system, i.e. the concept of a public-private partnership, I think this will be in the implementation of this law perhaps the biggest challenge. The concept itself is relatively new. For the first time in our documents, it is mentioned in the Government Regulation on the content, way of drawing up the plan and protecting and saving emergency situations. It is also mentioned in the national strategy for the development of the information society. Of course, we recognise critical infrastructure through different laws as objects of strategic importance, special importance and so on. The law itself, therefore, lays down and regulates national and European critical infrastructures and performs identification and regulation and critical infrastructures of the Republic of Serbia and is usually defined through the identification of the sectors themselves. We've accessed the eight-year model. I'm not going to name them now. All that is prescribed by this law is, in fact, what is vital to the state and to the protection of these objects, because the protection and security of these objects, or critical infrastructure, is also a matter of national security. I would also like to refer briefly to the draft law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. At the beginning of this year, we had comprehensive changes and additions to this law. I will not specifically address the issue of technical checks, i.e. the obligation to abolish the obligations on technical examinations. We also agree that my parliamentary group supports these solutions when it comes to this, and I would like to commend the practice that has been established, and it is the point of the Transport Safety Act itself on the roads that periodically, on the basis of annual analyses of the state of traffic security, we are correcting, or correcting, violations and criminal provisions in this regard. In Article 1 The draft law amending Article 7 of the applicable law defines vehicles for sports competitions. This led a colleague of Dejan Radenkovic and myself to submit an amendment that would be different in a different way. a more precise defined vehicle of historical importance. We have submitted this amendment, though with the correction, and this amendment refers to the need to finally resolve the issue of a vehicle of historical importance and make a clear distinction between those vehicles which are motor vehicles subject to registration and are required for them and classification, to determine the classification of vehicles that are actually exhibits. Either way, we'll back all the laws. In the amendment debate, we submitted several, dozens of amendments. I hope we get a chance to talk about them. So much for me. I'll leave time for my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48311	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Grozdan Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, co-workers with Ms. Justice and co-workers of Mr. Stefanovic, there are several laws in the field of internal affairs and justice system on the agenda of today's session. I'd like to put a special accent on the bill of police. It is clear to each of us that the police are a very complex organisational system, that there are a number of different relationships between co-ordination, co-ordination and each other's competences, that it employs tens of thousands of our citizens on the most diverse jobs, starts with our officers, who we meet every day, as they try to worry about the preservation of public order and peace on the streets through classical civil servants who are more involved in routine, bureaucratic affairs, and to those operatives whose work is not visible and is not known to the wider circle of the public. If we know this, it is easy to conclude that the regulation of such a system in terms of the rights and obligations of those employed by it is a difficult task, because so many different jobs and executioners are difficult to cover some simple general legal norms that would apply to all employees equally. With all due respect to each employee and his work, the same arches cannot be measured by the work of a police officer in a smaller municipality than those working in an intervention service in Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis, as their risks cannot be compared with those employed in the security of the state border or in the land security zone. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Police Act aim to regulate labour law in a better, fairer way in this system and I think that this is regulated in a correct way in the new Article 185a, which introduces a more correct formula for calculating the wage calculation coefficient. In the future, it will respect far more parameters relating to the very characteristics of the job, which is carried out in a correct, individual workplace, titles, rank, ways and organisation of working hours, especially the evaluation of specific work in shifts and tours of their correct changes. It will also explain precisely who has the right to correct business-specific coefficients, which are the jobs of curbing organised crime, terrorism, corruption, the detection of war crimes. However, these amendments give the Minister the right to determine this coefficient in other cases, if it is assessed that certain transactions are carried out under temporary difficulties, but also in cases where intervention is necessary to prevent the draining of the most professional personnel for whose work there is a greater need. Article 188 provides that new types of compensation may be prescribed for police officers to work under difficult field conditions and specific jobs carried out for a certain period of time outside of work. Several new members specifically specify that the pre-determined and found basic salary should there be a new deployment of a police officer or a change of job following the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law, which safeguards the security of earnings. Another important law that, I would say, remains in the shadows is the Voluntary Fire Department. This kind of display of human solidarity and help has had deep roots, sometimes over a hundred years old. Unfortunately, this tradition almost completely died over time, and even now the applicable Fire Defense Act has hardly even dealt with this matter. It is now correcting this failure and creating conditions for the re-affirmation of these associations of citizens, and for the benefit of the entire community. Laws in the area of justice are also important, and in particular the draft law on free legal aid that finally regulates this constitutional right of the most vulnerable citizens, whose adoption has been delayed for a long time due to the resistance of different groups within the judicial systems. More was said by my colleague Vera Paunovic, so I won't repeat myself. In the Day of Vote, the United Pensioners' Party will vote and will support this whole set of laws that will really advance our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48313	Thank you, Mrs. Banac. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48314	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, Mr. Maric, Mr. Dabovic, I am pleased that today this law is on the agenda, since recently, in 2014, we have had unpleasant experiences with the floods that I took part in and I am glad that some of the things we used to cook with through this bill have been corrected at the time. I planned on talking about this a lot longer, but there's little time left, so I'm going to focus on basics. The aim of this law is to regulate law, to establish unity in a single system that is in line with the real needs of protecting the saving of the population and material goods, because somehow we have always reacted at the moment when it should react. With this bill of law, I see that there is talk of a prevention that is far more important and that since then, so far many things have changed precisely in that preventive sense which is of great importance. I would just point to something that was a problem back then, which is that many local self-governments have worked on basic documents for a long time, and these are documents that are also the basis of protection. It's a risk of disaster and a plan to protect and rescue. The problem was that many local self-governments didn't have the right people to do it, so it wasn't well done or raised some money, so that money went to people who didn't have a license at the time, so these municipalities funded something they couldn't actually use. I am very glad that this will now be controlled, that the licensed person will be able to work on it and that finally local self-government will have their right plans for protection and rescue and, also, a rule on methodology, which will be unique to all, which is very important. So we have no difference between local and local self-government, and I think that's a very positive shift. Now a few sentences about this second law, which also came across great approval, which is the draft law on voluntary fire. I see the alliances have welcomed this very much. Not only does the newspaper have a newspaper in terms of the introduction of fire units and since it has 150 companies so far and 300 alliances, their engagement in terms of getting a vehicle, which the minister was talking about, and their involvement in the work and assistance of the MUP and the regulatory units would be of great importance, and they are particularly delighted with financing, because now with this bill, funding will be provided, even since 2019, but in this sense a major shift has been made. The funding will have three basics – from the Republic, the local community, through donations, gifts and will have one space for its own income, so I would ask you this time or next week, when we talk about it, to explain whether it is in line with the rules that are yet to be made, where it will be explained exactly what the competences of voluntary societies are and to mention that in Slovenia Slovenia Slovenia, the honor is to be a volunteer firefighter and that this is a good move.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48315	Thank you. I want to inform you that the time of your parliamentary group is up. The next speaker is Mr. Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48316	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity, of course, to welcome the Commissioner of the Emergency Sector, Mr. Predrag Marić, with whom I have had the opportunity to co-operate for so many years, so it is my pleasure to welcome him to the National Assembly. First of all, I will refer to the proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management, because as a longtime president of the municipality myself, I was someone who was, by function, chief of emergency headquarters in the territory of local self-government and I know what these problems are. Countless times both today and yesterday during the debate, the word of prevention was heard here. We all agree that prevention is the most important thing. However, there is much we need to do to help prevent. What's good, Mr. Maric, since we don't have Minister Stefanovic in the O.R. right now, is that people's admission, full of fire brigades by local self-government, goes well unlike any previous period, should be said openly, when these people are received on the political line. Today it's completely different, we have competitions, training, and that's good. Just before I mentioned that in 2014 I was chief of emergency headquarters in the municipality of Topol, I was, unfortunately, a witness to the death, or drowning of a lifeguard fireman during those great May floods, and I know how difficult and responsible the job is. In order to help prevent the good filling of fire brigades, their technical equipment is needed. We, unfortunately, have a lot of old vehicles in smaller Serbia, Mr. Maric. Someplace else are those old FAPs that are 30 years old and over. We have municipalities in hill-mounted areas, e.g. During this fall, we have a lot of burning, from grass and everything else, and by the time the vehicles reach them, these old vehicles pass for an hour and unfortunately, there are hundred percent damage. It's something that you and the Ministry, the Government and we as the National Assembly, when we're making a budget for next year, we need to find a solution to make that technical filling of the vehicle... Then, a lot of smaller units, unfortunately, do not in their composition have the scissors to cut the sheet in accidents, etc. etc. So that's what we need to buy and help people. On the other hand, I was one of the MPs who, in the past and this assembly of parliament, talked a lot about the Law on Anti-Build Protection. Unfortunately, when we talk about the Emergency Law, we cannot look back on everything that the peasants, both in Šumadia and throughout Serbia, have suffered this year's damage from the city. I took a warm stand, as well as my fellow MPs, to pass a new Anti-Build Protection Act. We brought it in, but that law predicted that the system from the Ministry of Agriculture would cross over to the Ministry of Agriculture. It turned out to be very bad. Please, when you look at how certain laws apply, we try to get back in next year, because this has proved to be disastrously bad. The purchase of rockets, the transport of missiles, the automation of the system, it can only work if it's at the MUP and your colleagues need to hear it loud and clear. It is that we once had a heated debate about all of this, but it has proven that the Ministry of Agriculture has no way or no good will, I don't know exactly what to call it, that it adequately manages the anti-urban protection. To settle this system, I say once again, in order to have a sufficient number of missiles on all anti-urban stations, to do automation adequately on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary for the MUP to take care of anti-urban protection. I think we could help our peasants and farmers in the right way. Of course, according to the time I have at my disposal, I'm just going to say that these amendments to the law are a big step forward, that in the day of voting, of course, I, as well as my colleagues, will support these changes, and there will be opportunities for me to say a lot more in the debate in particular about all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48317	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48318	Minister Kuburovic, respected co-workers from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. I was elected from the SNS list, but in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party. Since we witnessed all the bad things that were happening in the previous period, our small municipality from which I came, the municipality of Srlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and a large number of such municipalities were always in big trouble when the fires were in 2007, in 2010, when the floods were, when there was drought, when it was a city, when it was winter. It all happened in our little municipalities. That's why I'm here to talk about these things. Yeah, I've got a little time, but I'll just mention a few things. It's very important that we now adopt this law. It's very important because, as local self-government, when I was president of the municipality by 2014, we had an organization of the Regional Emergency Staff and when Mr Predrag Maric was with us, where we all participated in all these activities where there was fire-fighting in 2007, 2010 flood defense, winter protection, big snow. It was really a great need to form a voluntary fire company. It's something very important. We did it and Mr. Maric can say about it. We also had an action where our people, who worked in this society, who were active, helped our firefighters. It's very important for all of us in this law, I'm a police son, my father was a police officer, and it's very important for me to have officers, that people who work on the safety of our citizens have the opportunity to have a higher salary, that those who work a lot have a higher salary. Normally, we mustn't forget those people in the police who work in administrative affairs, those people who work with our parties, because these people are very important in the MUP system. Once again, I think this is all a good thing we're doing right now. I think we need to put more emphasis on these small municipalities, on these small communities, on this d.v.d. society, so that they can be more active and even provide them with equipment. We provided local self-government equipment for the d.v.d. society. That equipment is now in our people's hands. We expect to work together, with an even better education, with the help of our firefighters, to improve the conditions, because the municipality of Svrljig, the municipalities of Bela Palanka, and small municipalities have large territory, mountain-mounted areas and really needs a better organisation. At the same time, since Minister Stefanovic is not here, I would remind his colleagues...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48319	Time, fellow Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48320	Let me finish. Excuse me. ... When you were with us, there was a police station in Srlig, a new facility. It was then promised to provide a field vehicle, a jeep or something, just because we needed to protect ourselves from the heavy stuff, to get to every village, every citizen of ours. One more time, thank you. I, as an MP, will vote for all these laws, because I think it is necessary that we adopt this, because it is necessary for the citizens of Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48321	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is Alexandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48322	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Minister with Associates, as well as representatives of the second ministry that is with us today, in the discussion, I will refer to two new laws that are before us today, which are two brand new laws – the Law on Voluntary Fire and the Law on Free Legal Assistance. The law on voluntary fire will fully regulate this area in the future after the adoption of this law. So far we have had several provisions in different laws that regulated this area, but certainly voluntary firefighters deserve to have their work in the previous decades completely new and complete their law. Who are the volunteer firefighters? It's all those good people who've never had a problem going there where it's risky, where others get away with it. These are people who often, without lack of basic protective equipment and absolutely free of charge, leave to put out the fires and prevent other disasters that occur in the territory of our beautiful country. As a result, these people often need to be mentioned, often talking about them and everywhere. Voluntary fire in certain parts of Serbia has a long tradition, and so the first voluntary fire company was founded in Zemun, in Kikinda was founded in 1875, in Kragujevac in 1887, and it has been developing for years. In 1945, there were about 600 members of voluntary fire companies in Serbia's territory. Today, only in the territory of the city of Kickinda I come from has the same number of members, but we can't say that they're all active. Kikinda has nine villages and in every village, the city of Kikinda has a voluntary firehouse and there is a firehouse. They are currently in a cross-border co-operation project with Romania to provide them with certain protective equipment and how suits and shoes and to get much better training than they have so far. But, of course, there are still problems, no matter what the way these voluntary fire departments are financed by Kickindi better than in other local self-governments, there are still problems with these equipment, there is still a problem with trucks that are 30 to 40 years old. There's a big problem with the registration of those trucks, and there's a problem that some rural sites in the community don't even have trucks, but that tractors are dragging water tanks to put out the fire. How many voluntary fire companies and volunteer firemen of Kickinda, and I believe all of Serbia means, tells the correct and precise fact that in the first 20 days of October there were 170 fires in the fields, and at one point there were nine fires at the same time. Had it not been for these members of voluntary fire companies, the consequences would have been much greater and much more difficult on everything that happened in the fields. For this reason, I welcome the adoption of this law, the preservation of what concerns volunteering, but much more developed countries of Europe are guarding volunteers, and so should we, too, follow that path, but I also welcome that this law, in a way, will regulate the future financing of voluntary fire companies by Article 30. However, I believe that all these voluntary firefighters, regardless of what is, of course, necessary to have good equipment and to have, in some way, regular funding, for some of their regular needs, not for wages, have proved to them that what is most important and that is to mention them and that even without words of praise, they are doing what is best for their environment, i.e. to save people and property in the middle. As for the law on free legal aid, we have been waiting 17 years for this law to be passed. The first working group to pass this law was formed in 2001. I'm glad the state is ready to identify large funds to enforce this law. As far as I know, one and a half billion dinars are defined for this. It will be paid out of the local self-government budget, as well as from the Republika Srpska budget. The law laid down a wide circle of persons who can meet the conditions for providing free legal assistance. It is also a certain procedure to provide legal assistance, but what I particularly appreciate is that in this way, in the law of a particular circle of legal aid providers, which with a lawyer after a number of years, an agreement has been reached to be such a solution, because the profession and professionalism have come into contact, by defining who can provide free legal assistance to people in Serbia. The law will take, some step forward towards greater confidence in the justice of the Republic of Serbia and will certainly make it easier for those with the weakest material status in Serbia, as well as for earlier groups, to access justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48323	Thank you. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens, the police minister is unfortunately not in the O.R. right now, and I am very sorry, so I will hope to return later on to talk about these laws, and may not return after I have just received the information that the members of the IT Academy organised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been expelled in the context of requalification and prequalification and that she has broken the contract with the "Comtrade" with reason that they do not have enough professional staff. What's going on? I don't know. I hope we have more information on that. It was hard to honestly prepare for this session, among other things, because there really is not a lot of objections to most of the laws that are here today, and I will now look back on a set of laws to which the Ministry of Justice is in charge and, of course, for me personally, and I believe for most of the people who have long dealt with human rights, one of the most important laws is the Law on Free Legal Support. In this law, I have seen the comments of most civil society organisations, namely NGOs, and I have seen that most of the comments, specifically "Jucoma", have been adopted, as well as many other comments, and I really commend that. I also commend that you recognize certain categories of sensitive social groups in the law, as those categories of people who can get free legal aid. What is also important, once again to point out, is that NGOs are left with the possibility of continuing to provide free legal assistance and it is good that you recognize that they are key actors in this regard, since when they did so, the judiciary knew little or no knowledge of the rights of human rights and it is good that they are made possible by this law and that they are somewhere, as you say in your own explanation they are systemically recognised. Perhaps some possible misunderstandings or challenges that could happen under this law are, for example, a specific Article 4 which says that even one who does not meet the requirements in the sense that if it is not a beneficiary of social assistance has the right to use legal services would put him in a position to need social assistance. I don't know how it's going to be measured, I think it's going to be a big challenge, like this, to refuse a procedure in which a free legal aid applicant obviously doesn't seem to be successful. There we can get into an awkward situation that could come out of someone's subjective assessment of whether there's a chance of a dispute being done in a quality way, so these are some of the challenges that I've noticed in the law, but basically once again I want to praise this law. I think it's a major shift in the exercise of fundamental rights, especially in people who are financially and otherwise at risk. I'm going to briefly refer to the law supplementing the Act on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I don't have any objection to this member you're changing, but I honestly expected when he came, he came a long time earlier than these other laws in the assembly procedure, that you'd be changing Article 17 or the part that applies to the clause when it comes to the signing of a person who can't give their own signature. Here I specifically think of people with disabilities, say, blind and weak visions or other people who, for any reason, cannot be signed by hand. We have an amendment to the law on preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities regarding the use of faxes, but unfortunately, as far as I'm aware and how many people have told me, public notebooks have big problems with that, because facsimile is not recognised as a legal means of signing. So I hope that there will be these changes soon and in that sense. I wanted to refer to this law, which is in charge of the MUP, which is the bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. Again, I must say that when I analyse laws, I always analyze them from the point of view of people with disabilities and how they affect people with disabilities. There I sincerely hope that through the strategy provided for by this law, and through other legal acts, the necessity of people with disabilities to be involved in any further planning when it comes to evacuation in emergency situations. I assume that the representatives of the ministry know that at the Third UN Conference in Japan, this was one of the key topics and that we have received among other things from the UN Committee's recommendation in relation to the initial report that we have submitted, which concerns the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that in this sense we have taken little action. I commend that in the law of a disabled person they are recognised as a group that has the advantage of evacuation, but on the other hand, when we talk about people with disabilities, here I don't just mean that they should be someone who's evacuating themselves, but they can very usefully influence the community to be the ones who help evacuate themselves, in an emergency situation, especially if we're talking about people who have some other form of disability, and not just physical. So I hope that this will also be included in the creation of a strategy and that you will include organisations dealing with people with disabilities because, according to the World Health Organization estimates, about 15% of the total population are persons with disabilities. It's a large number, and also from this conference in Japan that I mentioned said that the mortality rate in dangerous situations is two to four times higher when it comes to people with disabilities. So, I'm talking about light signals for people who don't hear about different models that should be included, and also in the Planning and Construction Act, because you probably know that someone who's having a hard time moving can't use fire escapes. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48325	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovska. The word is Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48326	I thank you, Chairman. Since fellow MPs from the ruling coalition are selflessly commending Minister Stefanovic, let me begin my presentation with praises. I will, as well as my distinguished colleague, the head of our group, Dr. Sanda Raskovic, to commend the Commissioner of the Emergency Sector, Predrag Maric. I am convinced that because of his abilities and the abilities of his team, he will not be resented by the minister because he is praised by the opposition, and also because only quality people, especially in emergency situations, are able to organise teams and interventions in emergency situations, are overly needed by this country, which, even in this agenda, is in some catastrophic state. My esteemed colleagues have already spoken, testified from their units of local self-government as far as our state has no capacity to respond to some extraordinary challenges, in the event of some accidents caused by either human error or by some major force, but, behold, now on the trail of these praises, allow both the Serbian Parliament to hear praise and gratitude and gratitude to the South Wales Firefighters' Association. I think counterpart Bačevac, Dr Bacevic of Novi Pazar, was already thanking for the equipment they have been providing to Serbia for several years. They've recently sent three assault vehicles, like some kind of donation. As early as 2012, a group of firemen from Great Britain, namely from South Wales, took the vehicles and brought six vehicles to help firemen, or that was a donation. They drove through five or six European states, over 22,000 kilometers. But speaking of fires, I must say that there were no firemen from Raska, perhaps the fire that broke out in Novi Pazar would have been more catastrophic. I want to say how much the state of Serbia is in a state of human, living need, of equipment, of money from the budget, which will invest in protecting citizens and people on the ground across Serbia and how many politicians in power needing a lack of politics and one clouding of real social needs, because we are now going to meet to formulate the draft budget, the future budget for 2019, and I really appeal to the government that much greater resources focus on saving human lives. Due to these global climate changes, I think that the citizens of Serbia, the population, will be increasingly in need of such guidance. I'll look back as well as my esteemed colleague Mihailowski, since I have limited time on this law on free legal aid and I'll say what's already obvious. So this isn't some new institute that doesn't exist in our society, because the Human Rights Committee has already mapped around 95 different organizations. There is a different organisation that is "pro bono", that famous word that you look forward to when your lawyer tells you that some of his services will be "pro bono", but there are indeed many people who are looking for justice in the country of Serbia and are really in a staunch position and they need the help of professional people. You know, Madam Minister, how many professional associations, lawyers, have, with a reasonable argument, pointed out that the adoption of a law on free legal aid will not solve quality or speed up access to justice in Serbia. They have, of course, their professional, very convincing arguments, but I am afraid that in this way the law on free legal assistance we simply give political legitimacy to a social congregation in Serbia, or we say that only poor people in Serbia, which, of course, are listed here categories and particularly vulnerable categories, are simply condemned to obtaining free legal assistance. In this regard, for example, in Article 32(4), we have introduced, or you have entered one provision that really states that this graduate lawyer with three years of experience in the profession, unless eight days of granting a right to free legal aid, this three-day period of receipt of the request, or the delivery of the supplementary documentation, is deemed to have been rejected. Why was it not written here – it is believed that the request, i.e. the authority of the administration, or that graduate lawyer, why did you not write here – is deemed to have been accepted? Because, as far as you've calculated, you've been calling here for research done by the World Bank, if over 600,000 of these potential users are free legal aid, I think that's exactly what the solution is supposed to be brought here -- if the administration's authority is silent, or if it's not able to bring a solution within eight days, that the request is considered to be accepted. You know how many poor people don't know the rights. Some of them are illiterate, they can't get some paper in front of the counter at all, although they're talking about digitization here, but I think it was in Article 32(4) that the request should be accepted if the administration's authority kept quiet. Thank you. I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48327	Thank you, colleague Vukomanovic. Mr. News Tonchev, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48328	The Honorable Chairman, violation of article 27. We've gone a little further away from the burning topic, and this is about our situation in the judiciary, so since my parliamentary group is out of time, I would also like to point out this topic that is very important to our judicial system. I would like to welcome you and the Minister and speak on behalf of the Rules of Procedure on the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office. I come from a small municipality, where a judge has been proposed to elect from Belgrade. I want to remind the minister -- whether this judge is really going to stay in Surdulica, which I would like, not to be small municipalities like some streaming water heater where judges will come to us and then come back after a few months, and that's where we suffer, as well as citizens, as well as objects that stand. But I would like that, since Surdulica is a small and beautiful place to live, for judges who come from Belgrade to live in Surdulica. The other thing I'd like to point out is, I know that the Minister can't influence you, and it's not under the law to influence judges and prosecutors, but we have a big problem with the justice system in the Pchin region. Especially I, as a folk MP, was exposed to prosecutor Daniele Trajkovic's persecution. I gave you an object that I want you to look at in person. If I, as a folk MP, can't prove if this photo is here, whether it's makeup or a serious physical injury, then I don't know how the rest of the citizens will react to it. I ask you to pay a little more attention to the things that are going on in Pcinj County and the work of the judiciary. I thank you for giving me a chance to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48329	Thank you, Comrade Tonchev. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and of course you always have a chance to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as well as anything else in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48330	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Marinkovic, Minister Kuburovic, co-workers of Minister Stefanovic, fellow MPs, the bill on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, achieves prevention and readiness of individuals and communities for rapid response. With the very name, the disaster represents a natural disaster or a technical and technological accident, whose consequences threaten the safety, life and health of a larger number of people, material and cultural goods. The elemental accident is the occurrence of hydrological, meteorological, geological or biological origin caused by the operation of natural forces, and also the disasters are earthquakes, floods, floods, storms and heavy rains, atmospheric discharges, the city, droughts, slopes, gliding, snow applications and avalanches. One of the technical and technological accidents is a sudden uncontrollable event or a series of events that have escaped control when managing certain means of operation and when dealing with hazardous materials in production, use, transport, transport, processing, storage and disposal, which mainly refers to fire, explosion, hasharia, traffic accident in road, river, air traffic. What is very important, and this law provides for effective response in the event of disasters and taking operational measures by headquarters for emergency situations at the level of local self-government units. This law also gives powers to the Republic Emergency Staff that in cases where a timely reaction is missing, the Republic Staff may react. Article 15(3) of the proposed law assesses the risk of disasters by companies and other legal entities that have in their composition organisational continents whose capacities, scope, importance of action of particular importance for the economy of the Republic of Serbia in the fields of energy, telecommunications, mining and traffic. The risk assessment shall be carried out by a legal person who manages business facilities of more than 100 persons, and, if it is a child's stay up to 14 years of age, the assessment shall be carried out regardless of the number of children. Every three years they do, and they periodically update risk assessments, which is regulated by this law. In Article 16, the budgets of municipalities and cities will be burdened, but this is an investment in prevention and every dinar invested in prevention returns eightfold. So far bad experiences, when we have a situation to build everything and everything in many locations where there are great identification risks, then by assessing the risks of this plan and determining the risk zone, will reduce the possibility of these occurrences. This law introduces significant newspapers in the way of drawing up a risk assessment and a protection plan, the way in which a risk assessment and rescue in terms of giving jurisdiction to legal persons who must have the necessary authority by the MUP, in accordance with Article 19 of this Act. In accordance with Article 4 of this Act, a period of five years which is subject to a licence and authorisation, after which the procedure must be renewed, shall be specified. In practice so far, the passing of a professional examination to obtain a risk assessment and a plan for protection and rescue has seen a very low level of knowledge of candidates, and the obligation to attend training is foreseen. The interior ministry will lay down the necessary conditions for obtaining the authority to carry out that training. Local self-government adopts an act on the organisation and functioning of civil protection, produces and delivers a risk assessment, educates the Emergency Staff, determines entities of particular importance, plans, provides budgetary resources, educates civil protection units. Local self-government units may be exempt from the obligation of unit education for general purposes, but only provided they have a trained unit of 20 members on their territory. How important it was to pass this law is the fact that the Republic of Serbia experienced catastrophic floods in May 2014, and the situation of these floods has not been recorded in the last 120 years. The flood affected 38 municipalities of central Serbia, property in more than a million and 600,000 people. To be better understood, it is 22% of Serbia's population. The most difficult situation was in Obrenovac, but thanks to the involvement of the gendarmes, the military, and especially the Emergency Sector, the vulnerable population was helped. Police and military helicopters have been transported to endangered citizens, and one such case is remembered by all citizens, when a police helicopter saved a baby from just one year of age from Poljan near Obrenovac. The endangered population was saved by helicopters, trucks, boats, bogs, Serbian citizens showed solidarity, and the Serbian government, headed by the prime minister, and now President Aleksandar Vukic, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Defence Minister Gasic, have made an effort to keep the disaster under control. The disaster also affected my municipality of Rakovica, but thanks to the Rakovica municipality's headquarters, headed by the president of the municipality, flooded citizens were housed at the then DMB hotel and provided the citizens with food, clothing, shoes and accommodation. These floods also had their heroes, one of them gave his life by saving others, and this is young Dejan Lazarevic from Topola, a firefighter who was buried on 18 May 2014, who was sent by family, friends of firefighters, of course, and our Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. I sincerely hope, fellow MPs, that we will gladly accept this set of laws in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48331	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48332	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, a respected minister with co-workers, members of the interior ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us with draft laws from two areas, both from the interior ministry and proposals from laws related to the justice ministry. Both SNS laws also represent a significant step forward in terms of citizens' security, in terms of the security of the Republic of Serbia, in terms of equal access to justice for all citizens of Serbia. In this sense, the SNS, there is no dilemma, in the voting day, will support all proposed laws. I will now refer to the proposal for a law on disaster risk assessment and emergency management, which is and how significant it is from the aspect of citizens' security, especially in situations where some of the disasters that can be different form, from fires, floods, earthquakes, etc. occur. I must stress the great importance of this law, above all, on the plan of establishing preventive activities and preventive protection plans. Why are preventive protection plans, or preventive risk mitigation plans, important? Because they are targeted in a precise and precise way by a specific risk, and then the risk is adequately handled in such a way that the consequences of its creation are reduced to the least possible extent, if there is no possibility of avoiding it. I must stress that during the 2014 flood, which was the largest flood in the last 120 years, no local self-government unit, nor the business society on the territory of the Republic of Serbia had a risk assessment plan and a plan for protection and rescue, to which the Ministry of the Interior agreed. The assumption is that only in this way, that is, only such plans of units of local self-government, in whose consent and creation is given by the Ministry of the Interior, and how it can affect the reduction of risk from those disasters of the greatest possible, and the greatest possible disasters are certainly the loss of human lives. It was during the 2014 flood that the loss of human lives and the government, headed by the president at the time, and then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic announced a three-day mourning on the territory of the Republic of Serbia on 20 May 2014. I would also like to stress and put an accent on the special importance of the Republic Civil Protection Staff, above all on specialised units, because they, as well as the entire civil protection, practically "yellow company" Gilas absolutely did not care. I must stress that since 2012, about 200 specialised units of the Republic Civil Protection Staff have been formed so far, that they are located in the environments, that it is in the plan to start with an active reserve, i.e. active inclusion of the reserve, and all in order to improve the security of our citizens. I must also point out that 200 pieces of wardrobe were purchased for members of the special forces, not 200 pieces, but 2,000 pieces of wardrobe. I also have to point out that the filling of four elite units is 100%, that the filling of other specialised units is 90%, and I have to stress that the activities dealing with specialised units, namely the response to civil protection, the last response was 93%, and that is the biggest response, even when compared to the response in the former Yugoslavia. What I'm trying to say next is the law on free legal aid. He is also a significant step forward, he is relying on a ratified signed Istanbul Convention, but most importantly it provides equal access to justice for all citizens. This is also what the Constitution guarantees, but of course the Law on Free Legal Assistance is correct, and I cannot agree that it refers only to the most socially vulnerable. It refers to other citizens who, by paying, by financial exposure to the payment of legal aid and support, would come into a difficult material situation and come into a situation to become users, to exercise the right to receive financial social assistance. I must point out that associations that can also provide this legal assistance through lawyers have project financing, so they can not be financed directly from the Republic budget and, of course, by these project financing can also provide these services. We are here from the representative of "Yellas's yellow company", from his MPs, whom he is not now, saying there is no rule of law here. I must point out that in their time there was no rule of law, that in their time there were 30,000 legally invisible persons, mostly Roma, that legally invisible persons, or Roma, Gilas, were forced to move out of Belgrade, for God's sake, because they didn't have a residence here. They were legally invisible, they existed and they didn't actually exist. Only the arrival of the SNS has passed a law on out-of-parn procedure that allows those persons to re-enter the place and time of birth, and that number has now been reduced to about 5,000. This law on free legal aid also provides for these persons to be provided. The Serbian Progressive Party will support anything concerning the improvement of citizens and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48333	Thank you. The word is Anna Stevanović. She's not present. Next is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48334	Thank you, Chairman. I will talk about the proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, but before that only a few sentences on the results of the interior ministry. In fact, when Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic led the MUP, the situation changed dramatically for the better. What does that mean? This means that in 2018, 3% of crime was reduced compared to the first six months of 2017, which means that there were 1,300 less crimes than in 2017. Also, the 2008-2012 period reduced serious crimes or murder by 34%. So, in 2018, 34%, which is a fantastic result. That's about 1/3 less murders than in the 2008-2012 period. Also, the MUP really cares about its employees in a number of ways. First of all, about their standard. First, salaries are raised and will be increased. Then, flats are built and at extremely favourable prices that are much less than market prices, 500h is a square for all security services. So, the M.O.P., the Army, and the B.I.A. and their retired colleagues. It's something that's really fascinating, since we know that Mr. Gilas's apartments were 1,250 euros plus VAT, plus uniforms, plus clothes, bravo for the MUP. Also, it might not be bad if all MPs in this high house when we talk about the budget agreed to vote a slightly larger figure for the MUP. So much for them for now. Now, specifically, the law. Let us only remember the sad 2014 when there were enormous floods, when an estimate was made, lasted five weeks. That assessment was devastating. 33 people died, or drowned or disappeared, and the damage of 1.7 billion euros. In these floods the most affected production, then social services, as well as mining and energy. It is unfortunate that there has not been a severe haemaria, since underground waters have also emerged, so there has been no severe ecological disaster. It should be noted that categorized roads suffered in the flood, and the biggest damage suffered by Corrido 10 at Dimitrovgrad, when only one share cost about 10m euros, bridges in categorized roads disappeared, destroyed 30, and damaged 50, in untegorised roads of 200 bridges. The obrenovac has been most difficult in these floods, 24,000 people have been evacuated, many people have lost their homes, including the floods of 38 municipalities, evacuated 32,000 people. Indirectly and directly in the floods, many people were damaged, about one million and six thousand, 22% of the total population. Also, schools were damaged, health homes were damaged, many were evicted, schools stopped working, the school year ended, and 51,800 places were closed. It happened, it didn't happen again. We have 140 collective centres in Serbia, or help the Red Cross. It wasn't enough, so the mass of cultural and sports centers opened the door for people who had experienced this tragedy in every way. I attended it myself, and then a great degree of empathy was shown which I am proud of, I mean complete Serbia. I think it makes a man and sometimes in all situations we don't have enough consciousness that we as citizens have to help the most, everyone who's capable in all situations. I hope that doesn't happen again. What this law specifically adopts is, above all, a risk reduction plan for the level of the Republic, an autonomous province and a unit of local self-government. Which is good. New plans are being made with the aim of planning and taking preventive measures. That's the most important thing. Then, the immediate risk zone, it must not be built where risks exist. A risk register should also be made to know which places are very risky, meaning, directly by the rivers, then near mines, power plants and so on and an external plan of protection against major accidents, which is the paper in the law based on the Seveso directive, that besides the place which is contaminated or supposed to happen, something like this is not working, or is not being built. Thank you for your attention. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote on all these bill proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48335	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48336	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected minister, guests from the MUP, draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations comes in response to all the challenges that have hit us in the last few years, especially when it comes to earthquakes, floods, slides and other kinds of elemental disasters. As a folk letter coming from the King, I can freely say that the last decade has not been almost a year without some extreme situation caused primarily by natural disasters. Here, just tomorrow on November 3rd, eight years after the King’s earthquake struck, which unfortunately had human casualties, and more or less, more than 12,000 objects were damaged. I have to take the opportunity to point out that two hours after the earthquake the then Minister of Police Ivica Dacic arrived and that police officers and firemen and members of the Army were the first to, while there was still danger, to help clear the ruins. You too, Mr. Maric, have been to the King all the time on the royal hard days team. What we can say from today's perspective on this tragic day is that the November 2010 earthquake for the King was what the May floods of 2014 were for Serbia, which is the realization that in times of transition we forgot and neglected the system of operations in emergency situations. For the United Serbia, the intention of the legislator of this law, i.e. the MUP, is to attach the accent and importance in many ways to the local self-government and all the institutions that are important to this topic to be good and will contribute in many ways to the timely response to natural disasters. This bill follows the objectives of the Sendai framework, i.e. that the state plays a primary role in reducing the risk of disasters, but that responsibility should be shared and should include local government, private sector and other institutions. On the other hand, it is in the accent on the place that my concern lies when it comes to the capacity of local self-government, especially smaller municipalities that do not have enough human or material capacity to realise legally prescribed obligations. You have also found a solution in this possible problem and it is found in Article 29 of the proposed law, which is the possibility of local self-government to associate and thus reach an appropriate level of both quality and quantity if we are talking about figures and means. On this occasion, I would like to point out that the initiative for this kind of response to all the challenges caused by climate change and, above all, natural disasters came from the city of Kralje, from that part of the city administration that is responsible for these affairs, which is called the Civil Protection Department. The formation of this department was just the intention of local political actors to face the problems of disaster-bearing preventive measures and activities, as well as the formation of civil protection. New legal solutions in terms of institutes, such as risk registers, plans to reduce risks will greatly affect the quality of future solutions. It should be kept in mind that sublegal acts and everything that follows in the application of this law are synchronised, but also in the function of sustainable development of local self-government, as well as the Republic of Serbia as a whole. What I want to point out, perhaps as an incomplete legal solution, is that local self-governments are punished if they finance something, or do not finance it, as stated in Part 12 - criminal provisions of this bill. Penalties are intended for everyone in the system, even for civil protection creditors who, you will agree, will eventually be large enthusiasts and volunteers, or volunteers, when it comes to civil protection activities at the place. These are some of my suggestions, but certainly Unique Serbia wants to praise the adoption of this law which will continue to serve as a quality tool in order to adequately respond to disasters. As far as the Bill of Police is concerned, wages are first equalized, so a police officer in the King and in Belgrade will have the same salaries, people do the same jobs, so there is no need to be treated equally. In the last year, a number of uniformed police officers have been observed on the streets of the city and in conversation with citizens and fellow citizens, and I've gotten the impression that they feel safer about it. The cops got new uniforms, and I don't think there's ever been any more care about the needs and problems of the cops, but I want to mention police inspectors who are the pillar of the ministry and, unlike the cops, they don't get uniforms, but they separate money from their salaries for suits because they work in a civilian and I hope that in some future period they will be helped in that sense. The JS parliamentary group submitted three amendments to the draft disaster reduction law. I hope they'll be adopted. Nevertheless, the JS parliamentary groups will support all draft laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48337	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48338	Thank you. The proposal to amend the Law on a litigation procedure before us is bad and controversial. Namely, your argument shows that you are changing that member to meet banks, or to facilitate trade in problematic loans, and to allow a new legal person who has taken over the claim to appear as a prosecutor, without the consent of the defendant, to appear at the place of the prosecutor. First of all, let me tell you that this is in direct contrast to the Bank Act, Article 5(2), which states that no one but banks can be engaged in lending. We can remember that this member had been violated before and that we had one case with Dyners and when the prosecution spent years pushing debts to the account of a private company called Dyners, who was unauthorized to issue credit cards, this was talked about in the National Assembly on my part, even some MPs of the ruling majority brought it up before me. I wasn't an MP at the time. If there is a litigation procedure for the payment of the credit initiated by the bank, the payment of the loan is part of the credit transaction and you are now practically allowing someone who is not a bank to enter the credit business and that is a violation of the law. This change is disputed because we believe that the prosecutor's consent should remain, because being sued does not mean that he is in debt, because it is yet to be determined in court proceedings, and here is the case pending. Here is the possibility of a bank, which has, for example, sued someone in a commercial court, where disputes are of high value and high taxes, produced some serious costs and knows that it will lose the process, simply to leave that debt to a small financial asset to a DO that does not have a large stake and thus avoids paying the costs of the process, but it is not just for banks and public enterprises. For example, the Infostan or Parking Service, which has launched huge enforcement procedures, which are now in court and there is no case-law that clearly indicates that they will lose these disputes, have the opportunity to get out of it and transfer it to some DOO that has the founding stake of 1,000 dinars and that thousands of citizens cannot charge tens of thousands of dinars of their costs before the court. This is a serious problem and you know well that there is a cartel of lawyers, bank directors, directors of public enterprises that have been pumping money both from citizens and from public companies themselves. This is their combination. Next, as long as this country goes out to meet the banks? The laws in favour of banks are constantly passed. When will something for the benefit of the people, for the benefit of the citizens? These laws need to be passed, and courts should work in the interests of citizens and enforce laws. Why don't we solve the CHF case? The European Court of Justice, the whole of Europe, has all taken care of it. Now here's a few days ago and a court in Split, nothing is a Swiss French clause and nothing is a contract itself. We're the only ones who don't solve this problem. Let me ask you further, Madam Minister, here I am a constructive opposition – do you want to fill the budget? The Supreme Cassation Court has taken the view that the cost of processing the credit is not allowed unless the bank has clearly identified what the cost is. The state has taken billions of euros in loans over the last 18 years, with costs between 0.5% and 1%. It's now with interest rates of tens of millions of euros. What's the D.A. doing? You're proposing, and the government is setting up both the D.A. and his deputies. Why don't they start the procedure further to provide the state with money in the budget? Not to mention Eurybor and Libor. Everywhere in these contracts where the state and public enterprises are in debt, and the state is guaranteed, stands the eurobor and the libor plus the interest rate, and you have decisions both by the European Commission and EU courts, means the court in London, where over 12 billion euros have been punished by banks and we can call on these cases. We've got a "co-escene" who's been giving big loans to the state. She's been doing euribor and libor everywhere. Why don't we sue them, and here's the budget money. Not to say that for the dinar loans the state took or public enterprises stands an index clause in the euro. These are hundreds of millions of euros that can be provided in the budget, but unfortunately there is no such will. As for the election of judges and prosecutors, as well as the Law on Regulating Courts and Lobbying, I am the greatest critic in this Assembly and in the political life of the Serbian judiciary, and I kept talking about problems. I also talked about party influences that are not small and which are characteristics especially in 18 years. There is one bigger problem than that that far more affects citizens, which is crime and corruption within the judiciary. It's much worse than any political influence because it's far beyond procedure, and for national security it's even more dangerous when the judiciary is affected by someone on the outside. We now want constitutional amendments to remove the judiciary from the Serbian state system, practically, to make it completely irresponsible to no one but foreign centres of power. Is the power factor of the U.S. Embassy, the United States and Soros in the judiciary? Here, now I'm going to illustrate to you an example. We have now selected new judges, so in the explanation of the President of the High Council of the Judiciary for, say, Judge Oliver Đuric, who from the First Crosses to the Supreme Court, it is said, among other things, that the reasons for the election - twice in 2007 and 2012 was in the organization of the office of the permanent legal adviser of the US Embassy in Belgrade and the organisation of the Open Gold programme in the United States at seminars and knows English. That's the reason for the judge's progress? I'll tell you another thing when we talk about lobbying. Here's a stenogram of audio footage that was long before your time, when you were a minister, led by top CIA officials David Rosemer, Bill Jameson and Sean Fis Patrick with some of the authorities in Serbia at the time, explaining how CIA and US courts cooperate and how American courts like to meet the CIA. It doesn't matter about this subject, I'll just talk about it, but what does it matter? The important thing is that we have a situation where they point out that CIA associates won't respond unless the CIA stands behind them in cases of drug trafficking, weapons or murder. Is this now, many years later, a case with our judiciary? Here are two examples? What about the case of Mompal Perisic? Why doesn't the procedure end? The man was caught spying. The second case, a trial for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, Milan Verulovic testifys that only he and two US Embassy officials were present at all hearings. Just them. Why was the American embassy so interested in this case? Apparently, there's a reason. As for free legal aid, it's nice that you said a billion and a half out of the budget for free legal aid, but I would ask you another question – why is the access to justice in Serbia expensive? It's an extremely expensive approach to justice, so don't lie to yourself. We have fees that go from 98 thousand dinars, audits and 400,000 dinars can be, a hearing of 55,000, an objection to the art of 90 grand. We've introduced notaries, public executioners. What's with all the taxes, people? Give access to justice to everyone. If the Administrative Court can be 700, 900 dinars, why did the Commercial Court or other courts raise taxes so much? It's all gathering access to justice. So that's the real problem, and here's the means to get you back into the budget, to finance free legal aid. We pay every year for unfounded detention, for illegal detention, for defence costs 4.6 billion. Has the state ever regressed? Has the state ever regressed to any judge or prosecutor? Five thousand detentions a year, and 30 severances, so are these people normal? The judge, as soon as the prosecutor proposes to be held in custody, he determines the detention. Where's that? To suggest hanging, will they hang people? So after that, it goes away, what do we do then? So why don't we regress from these people. Here in the Assembly and the government of Djukanovic and Petar Jojic, we have been against the election of Goce Culic, the 535 indictments have fallen to the woman, the 110m dinars of the state have been paid. Do you know how much she cost this country? She's still, you know, being a D.A.'s office. These are serious and real in the judiciary that we have to solve. Finally, free legal aid, I am sorry that Minister Stefanovic is not here, and the Police Act. It's bad that you've left the possibility that the Citizens' Associations are represented by asylum seekers, as well as for minority groups. That's where you went out to meet Sorosha. But speaking of asylum, I'll remind you a few weeks ago you had a government session where you abolished the visa-free regime with Iran. That session was very fast, two minutes ago, a directive came in from Brussels and you didn't know why you did it. Here, I'll tell you now why you did it. I have here an exclusive file that Stoltenberg showed to Wolf. So here's the MOIS file. People will know what the MoIS is, the Iranian service. So people from Iran, infiltrated, came here with passports, passports bowed and infiltrated among migrants or with Serbian passports crossed the EU, and that's why Stoltenberg showed Vukic, and that's why you did it expressly. I warn the minister, I know that he has nothing to do with it, Minister Stefanovic, but knowing him won't give up on responsibility, let him pay attention to how passports are betrayed and, if he wants, since this is not for reading in the National Assembly, I can show him these materials, but to him personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48339	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48340	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that a colleague who is also a lawyer obviously did not understand the provision of the Law on Prosecution and is referring to the Law on Banks. The law on banks, it is true, is to say that only banks can issue loans, but this is not about the issue of loans, but it's about the debt and the classical advance of claims. I believe that, like me, you've learned good laws on bond relations where there is a possibility of adjudicating claims. What is the objective of this provision and what was happening in practice? The Commercial Court of Appeals has taken the view that if a party's claim is made against another person, the first procedure that has begun must be terminated. Just because someone is no longer in the role of the prosecutor, it is clear that he is losing the dispute and that this appeal will be refused to him, and this leads to the initiation of another litigation procedure, too, and precisely to demand the same debt, we are in a position to conduct two litigation proceedings, to engage the courts twice, which you yourself have said is not cheap at all. Right in business disputes are high court fees. Such fees do not apply to disputes in which natural persons occur, and precisely the objective of this change was to speed up the court procedure, that instead of two proceedings we have one procedure that can end within a relatively short period of time. I don't understand why the payment of credit is made with utility services. It is referred to as ‘Infostane’. I don't think that has anything to do with it. I don't know how you know that Infostan is going to lose the disputes he's started to collect claims to citizens. I believe it's a forced execution. There are a number of such procedures in progress, you are referring to some municipal enterprises that have been misusing when it comes to the execution of claims, but I must tell you that this is exactly what the Department of Justice and I was at the head of certain proceedings against certain municipal enterprises and that these cases are in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime precisely because there have been certain abuses. One more thing. When it comes to access to justice, court fees have been in the last few years, or the last three years, and so are fewer. 50% of court fees have been reduced especially in the process of execution, which is the most expensive procedure. And what we will certainly continue to do is try to warn court fees to prevent individuals from accessing justice. Free legal aid, I think, is also important and what I want to point out, too, that in this case the costs, i.e. the fees, will be charged to legal persons, will be determined on the basis of the tariff established by the Ministry of Justice. The tariff established by the Justice Department will certainly not fit the legal rate, and on the other hand, once we get back to the cost of the procedure, I have to remind you that neither the government nor the Department of Justice nor the Ministry of Justice are bringing lawyers. If you have any objections to the amount of those expenses, you must contact your lawyers. You had a few more questions. You've been asking questions about specific subjects. I don't think you expect me to answer any individual action. As justice minister, I have not commented on the procedure once before, and I believe that it should also be insisted on the MPs themselves. I don't want parliament to put pressure on anyone, or the prosecutor, or the judge. I'm sorry it's not there, and Mr. Tonchev, who mentioned a specific prosecutor earlier, which I don't think is concrete, nor the minister of justice can influence the conduct of a specific case he's interested in. It is the coalition that you belong to several times in the last ten days that, in some way, in Parliament itself, marked individual judges and prosecutors, that has also marked the prosecutor who has just initiated proceedings against you because of the invitation to hanging of Prime Minister and President Vukic, so I ask questions - how should the prosecutor feel about a specific case when it is discussed in the assembly debate, when we have such comments and threats on social networks? I say once again, I'm sorry you didn't understand the Law of Prosecution. It's not about lending. It refers to the classical concession of claims, and it is one of the basic institutes that is also prescribed by the Law on Liabilities, and the purpose of the Ministry of Justice was just to relieve the courts, to speed up the proceedings and to have a more effective judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48341	The word is Marija Obradović, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48342	Thank you. I had to react as authorized and as someone who knew this matter. What we have heard during the previous presentation, once again an opportunity to upset the Serbian public and to bring out false and lies is a false disturbance and to be impatient towards migrants, to people who are going through severe trouble both across our country's territory and in the region. It is absolutely incorrect and foolish that any Iranian citizen with a Serbian passport, a Serbian document... You can show that paper by tomorrow. There's a record. No one with a Serbian passport from Iranian citizens has crossed the line. Did Iranian citizens go underground? That's a different story. Is that why the visa-free regime with Iran was lifted? That's a different story. Don't change the thesis. Don't make a fuss in society. That's what you did with the hanging, calling for the Prime Minister and the President's hanging, but we won't be the land of rapists and those who call for hanging. We will be a decent, normal, advanced Serbia in which power comes, not by force, only by courtesy and hard work. That's why we're different from you. Well, good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48343	Comrade Jovanovic, just tell me on what basis? (Nedjo Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48344	I thank the chairman. Article 107, given that certain misinformation has led to a fact that implies the possibility for citizens in a completely wrong way to perceive the work of the Assembly, which in any case leads to the degradation of this Parliament, and which you must not allow, I ask you to draw attention in the future, under one, that we are in no way detached from the topic. Because using populism and political marketing in this assembly is not going to take us far to get political points. It is certain that even those who in this House are not going to bring about the truth, such as the truth about court fees. Well, out of the total amount of court fees, only 40% returns to the courts, as far as I know, if that's true, and the needs of the courts are incomparably higher. Where else should the costs associated with the means of transport be serviced, for everything that involves the technical needs of the judiciary in Serbia? From where? Is that perhaps going to be provided by the Dverry Party? It won't be safe. Will that be provided by those who support the Dvori party? It won't be safe. But that's why the Department of Justice, indeed, is making huge efforts to serve the judiciary in the best possible way. And it's in full capacity and it does. That a large number of basic funds had just been allocated to the courts by the Ministry of Justice, through the Administration or the Property Management Directorate, taken away from criminal acts. How many means of transport have come to the courts in this way?' Please, indeed, when we talk about justice, we use facts. This way we will lead the citizens into great error. And whoever wants it has a plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48345	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48346	That's what he's doing. It's designed to undermine this country's system, to undermine the state. It is not just that said after what has been said -- let's hang the president of the state, the prime minister, etc., but we will now continue, and we will bring down the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask you, in the future, that something like this is not tolerated in any way and that you take care of the actions of the MPs in this way, because this is not in the spirit of parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48347	Thanks, buddy. You'll get it, colleague Jojic. Take it easy. Take it easy. Here, you just checked out. So, first of all, I have to answer my colleagues to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I agree that there has been some broader interpretation of the subject of the agenda, but every MP has the right to state his political position, so I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Right on line, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48348	Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't want to affect the holders of judicial functions. It is not my intention, but from the past, how much dosmania caused the cost of the Republic of Serbia's budget only in the "Sabbe" action, when 12,500 people were arrested and detained. Since it affects taxpayers, because it is paid by taxpayers, here, I would ask and ask the Minister's question to tell us – how much of the Republic of Serbia's budget has had to pay for the "Sabbe" action, which has left serious consequences for democracy and the rights of our citizens? And in the end, these citizens had to pay for everything that was caused by those who ran the judiciary at the time, and they looked only at their own interests. Judges and prosecutors at the time, they know how they were elected. They've been picked on the political line. People who, above all, exercised certain rights, but watched only how anyone would benefit and how any political party, namely their Dosmanli, would be privileged and protected by the yellow party. The costs, according to my knowledge, are great, but I too, that I would not be mistaken, and that is very interesting for citizens and taxpayers, Madam Minister, how many states in connection with this action "Sabbe" have to pay the costs, how many unfounded, first of all, detentions, how many have been charged, how many citizens have been convicted on these charges, how much has been released and, in the end, the result and the recapitulation, how much are these costs for our taxpayers?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48349	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48350	It shouldn't be, I mean, no secret, because it's in the interest of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48351	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Right on the line, MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48352	I've had enough of the answer as far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned. I'll tell you right now, the credit business procedure is about credit approval, credit use and credit collection, so no one can get involved in the credit business, they can't take the credit job claim because it's the opposite of the Banks Act, it's a criminal offence, and KZ 87 also points to a criminal act. So we have to take care of it. The wording itself doesn't say that the law applies only to banks, so parking service can. You know very well about the case-law that has already established that the daily parking ticket, that the owner of a traffic licence and that car is run on it, does not mean that he was driving, must be proven who was driving and are mass-losing procedures. The parking service has been mass-losing, busy court practice, and here's a combination of how to get the parking service out of it. That's all I'm saying, and that's a serious problem. You don't have an answer for that, like you don't have an answer for other things. As for the cause of panic, I have publicly warned, so Stotenberg came, showed you why you haven't changed that decision to the government, abolished the visa-free regime. I told him there was something going on behind the back of the police minister, but that didn't upset him, and I showed him to clean up the case well. I have documentation of what I need to read here, the names of associates of the Iranian service and the companies they work through? It's not my idea to do that. This is a serious matter and this is not a public matter. It's my well-intentioned apparition of such things. What's interesting, Madam Minister, is that you know I'm being prosecuted. I was questioned by the police as a citizen. I don't have that notice that I'm being prosecuted as Prosecutor Momčilović informs you, not informing me? Very interesting, I will not, of course, appeal to immunity in that case. I'm just saying, I'm really fighting for Serbia as a society of normal people where no crime, no corruption, no betrayal will be tolerated. I don't see what's going on here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48353	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48354	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected co-workers from the MUP, fellow MPs, at the end of this long day, would look back on the results of the MUP since Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic led him. The personal and property security of citizens has been improved. The results of work against organised crime have been improved. An adequate and effective response to the migrant crisis has been provided. Transport security has been improved, and in addition to the above, it should be noted that significant results have been achieved in the following. In administrative affairs, the internal control sector, information technologies, finances where all the obligations of previous years have been recovered. Modernisation of vehicles, equipment of staff uniforms and major advances in emergency assistance have been made. The ministry's progress is the basis for the country's overall progress and prosperity, because without peace, security and security, citizens cannot even talk about the country's economic progress, investment, schools, health care. Since many of my colleagues have already spoken, I have submitted amendments to the proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disaster and emergency management, and I will be based this time on the traffic safety law, where tightening the sanctions for speeding out of the settlement, as well as the owners of cars older than 15 will not be obliged to carry out a technical examination of the vehicle every six months, given the standard of citizens. The law also postpones the first regular technical review for newly manufactured vehicles that were first registered in Serbia. World Health Organization data show that worldwide 1.3 million people lose their lives in car accidents annually, 20 to 50 million are injured, and based on this growth trend, the number of people killed. The Global Traffic Safety Commission has launched an initiative to declare a decade of traffic security action. It is predicted that, with a sustainable engagement in the prevention of road accidents, more than 60,000 car accidents can be prevented from being killed in a decade between 2011 and 2020, as statistics indicate, in our country on average, with 800 people losing their lives, most young people from 18 to 25 years of age. However, by adopting a new Transport Safety Act, the number of traffic accidents and the result has been significantly reduced, so Serbia has exited the high public risk zone compared to other European countries. What's important to point out, e.g. on the Law on the Prevention of Violence and misbehaving in sports events, the aim is to prevent frequent riots in the stands, which are increasingly costing clubs, teams and which threaten the country's reputation. A law that should be the basis for preventing riots in the stands was passed in 2003. It has been changed several times so far, and the last change was in 2013. No version has ever produced too many results in the fight against hooligans, hiding behind fans' names. Police must carry out around 2,500 to 3,000 of their members when organising high-risk events, especially football derbys, in order to prevent incidents, and this requires high costs. The law, among other things, prohibits the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in facilities, at a distance of 1km in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad, and in smaller places up to 300m, which is a significant prevention. The list of things that are involved in violence and misbehaving is also spread to try to bring and highlight in the sports object features that offend national, religious, racial and other feelings, or cause hatred and impatience, and control is extended beyond the stadium. I would quote at the very end of our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who in an extraordinary picturesque way has said what is important in life, and what is demagogy - the story of the East and the West, dictatorships and censorships, military and political alliances, nations, religions, partisan and Chetniks, capitalism, socialism, globalisation, postcapitalism, are mostly flossules and dizzinesss in front of what is called life, and for one simple reason not to offer solutions for ordinary life, for every citizen of this country, who lives today and here, and who we have to fix, not by talking, not big thoughts, but a series of practical solutions. That's exactly what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48355	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48356	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a respected minister with associates, for the sake of Serbian citizens, I will deny the untrue claims made by those fellow MPs who are persistently persecuted by migrants, and I will say that the essence of the Law on Free Legal Assistance is exactly what it tells him himself, enabling our citizens who cannot pay legal aid, to get this assistance free of charge, that is, that these costs are borne in their place by state and local self-government. I understand that a colleague is in pain of the fact that the SNS has managed to put this country in a position where it is able to help its citizens in many fields and take care of citizens' interests, so there are only remaining attempts to twist the facts. The state of Serbia will allocate 1.5 billion dinars per year for the needs of citizens for free legal aid in the republic's budget. The law also provides for conditions for the exercise of the right to free legal aid and a circle of users of this aid has been set. In this way, we are sure that the assistance will be provided precisely to those who really need it, or those who are in a difficult situation, which are users of social protection, users of children's allowances, persons with disabilities, etc. The provision of free legal assistance consists of providing legal advice, putting together submissions, representation and defence by lawyers and legal assistance services in local self-government units. As for the association dealing with the protection of human and minority rights and freedoms, which are entered in the register of providers of free legal support, this law will allow them to assist all vulnerable groups, and above all, victims of domestic violence, victims of partner violence, persons with disabilities, etc. The law also provides obligations for free legal assistance and support providers, which means that they are forbidden to ask or receive compensation from clients. It is even attributed to supervision of law enforcement and quality control of service provision, as well as the establishment of advice to monitor the system of free legal assistance. I think this law provides enormous security to all those who are in a legal problem, and are unable to provide legal information or legal wage service. This state has shown great responsibility and understanding for its citizens and has once again shown that the well-being of citizens is primary through all the legal solutions that we bring here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48357	Thank you. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48358	Dear chairman, JS MPs believe adoption of the proposed legislative solutions will contribute to the establishment of protection for Serbian citizens, security and justice. In this regard, the respected chairman, respected representatives of the executive and legislative authority, respected citizens of Serbia, we have 18 very important laws submitted by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, as well as personnel solutions submitted by the State's major prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary. The JS parliamentary group will give full support to all proposed legislative proposals, as well as personnel solutions submitted by the State's major prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary, respecting the profession above all. I'm going to talk about the law in the area of justice, but I'm going to use it, since I have a little time left, just a few sentences to say about the MUP and the work and achievements they've achieved so far. So that all praise, distinguished Minister Stefanovic, as well as you, Mr Maric, on everything you contribute to situations, i.e. the emergency situations of the Republic of Serbia. As for the Law on Justice, Mrs Kuburovic, the Honorable Minister, this is just another, let me say, way of reforming the judicial system in which you invest a lot, so that we have before us an amendment to the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Regulating Courts and Free Legal Assistance. Certainly, the JS parliamentary group will support all proposals, and as far as the Law on Free Legal Assistance is concerned, since this law has been waiting for ten years, for every honour to you, I have been involved in the team before, when it comes to Frankfurt. Protector of citizens' rights and free legal assistance, so this is a very important thing for Serbian citizens, where you are now caring for all categories of population. In my neighborhood it's usually said - there's no money for a lawyer either. I hope this sentence goes back to history, because whoever has the money will pay for the lawyer, and now all categories, especially, not just endangered categories, but there are simply situations where Serbian citizens are unable to possibly provide a lawyer, that this legal aid will be granted to them. Serbia has become a strong and stable state thanks to the current government, thanks to well-leaded, to say, reforms and policies of the ministry, above all to the Ministry of Justice, because it is at the helm and the adoption of a change of the Constitution. Of course, at the head of Alexander Wolfich... (President: Bringing the end. Let me finish, that's one second. This law shows that Serbia is referring to all social categories of the population. I'll just ask you, since I come from the Municipality of Alexandrovac, I know how much you've worked on a network of courts, but there are municipalities that have lost this court and settled under a judicial unit. So there are big problems, especially when it comes to litigation and overa, let's say, contracts and similar things that we decide in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48359	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48360	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am pleased to see that gentlemen from the Ministry of the Interior and Mrs. Minister of Justice very often in this high house with a large number of their associates, there are more here tonight than twice as many opposition, and they used to criticise them today and yesterday. That speaks of you and your relationship to work and your dedication. Interior Minister Dr Stefanovic, in his time as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has chaired this high house and according to a general assessment of the honourable MPs, both positions and the opposition, the best in the last 20 years. No weaker Mr. Stefanovic performs the role of the minister of the interior of the Republic of Serbia, and this shows the results achieved under his leadership, which we from the SNS are very pleased with. This disaster risk reduction law will certainly contribute to the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of honourable MPs in this high house and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is the Honorable President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic. The law is very well-conceived. Please, calm those who curse here for years, and others. Please, these unarticulated screams, Mr. Arsic, you owe it to...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48361	Comrade Atlagic, you're a professor, I'm sure they can't interfere with you, just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48362	They can't do me, but they can't because of the citizens. The law is very well-conceived and will certainly contribute to reducing the risk of disasters and is in line with the EU's positive regulations. The Republic of Serbia loses every year to the floods of 120 million dinars, and in the catastrophic floods of the Lord in 2014 a billion and 700 million. In 2014, the state of Serbia reacted very quickly and very effectively to help the vulnerable population, thanks to the then Prime Minister, and today's President, Mr. Vukic. The interior ministry, the Serbian Army, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were unique and at the height of the task. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, at the height of the task were not some opposition leaders, and today the MPs in this high house tried to use our people's torment and tragedy to collect cheap political points. Among them was Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, in a people known as the farmer in an attempt, which, in May 30th 2014, said, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do not be shocked by this statement, I quote: "The floods are a cleverly designed media manipulation. I have to admit that I fell for propaganda too." It's a finished quote. That's what Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, the farmer, said in an attempt. Dear citizens of Serbia, can you believe that this person was the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? His party leader advocated the bombing of the Republic of Serbia. Could anyone believe that those who persuaded NATO dusters to kill our children, that when they came to power in 2000, they would bring something good to the Republic of Serbia? Of course not, only those who suffer from amnesia. I must point out that 97% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who felt the consequences of the 2014 flood were satisfied with the state of Serbia. That's what one research showed. Although BIRN lied that there was manipulation over the election of the firm that was to be in charge of pumping water on a copy of the Tamnava-West Field, which was also denied by the World Bank, stressing that the tender was conducted in accordance with the applicable regulations. Dear People's MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, I will tell you who BIRN is, so you will understand why he lied so facelessly and those who called on him yesterday and today in this Assembly and slandered Mr. Martinovic and Dr. Vlad Orlic. BIRN is a follow-up media organisation known as the Institute for War and Peace Research. In Serbia, it is known for publishing the text of the royal journalist Filipovic in which he accused the Yugoslav Army of deliberately killing at least 800 Albanian children under five years of age in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999, which was a notorous lie. Journalist Filipovic was sentenced in the Military Court for Defamation and Spying, and, behold, he was pardoned by five-octobaric first fighters and domestic NATO dusters when they came to power. The former Democratic Party authorities did not pay attention to the floods, the director of the "Colubare" and "Tent" from the Democratic Party did not want to sign the insurance policy because on 1 March 2012, he dropped compensation for flood damage. Because of their irresponsibility, we lost tens of millions of euros. What, gentlemen, the MPs and respected citizens, touched the parties of the former regime, were destroyed. They destroyed our past, our present, destroyed the future of our children, and if they had stayed in power for just a year, they would have destroyed our roots. In the end, everything Comrade Tito created, Slobodan Milosevic preserved, DOS destroyed by robbery privatisation, and Vukic again, here, built it. Dear People's MPs, here they are again, joined in some Alliance for Serbia, I call it an alliance for another robbery of Serbia, and Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the Wolf, and Dragan Djilas, called Điki Mafia, and Saša Jankovic, called Sale praangi, and Bosko Obradović, called Bosko Lupeti, and Saša Radulović, called the bankruptcy king, and Dusan Petrovic, called Dusan Kraruubica, Janko Veseinović, called Janko Stanok, and Nenad Canak, called Neša Gicoje, and Balša Bozovic, called the Gobrava pirates from Maldiv, and Zoran Zivković, called the farmer in the attempt and, behold, Zoran Lutovac, called Zadovac, called Zadovac, and Cedo Jovanović, Zvnik. Here they are, reunited with the Alliance for Serbia, which is an alliance for the second robbery of Serbia, it is an alliance of thieves, frauds, bandits, lesbians, luftiguza and the wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48363	The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48364	I fully support the laws we have been talking about here for several days. I will try to be very concise and brief, because only I could talk about the Emergency Law for a very long time, because in three terms I was at the head of headquarters emergency situations, and when there was a bombing in 1999 in Smederjevska Palanca, so when we had 3,000 people who came from Kosovo after that, we had a terrible flood on July 10th that happened again. In the next term from 2004 to 2008, it was peaceful, several fires that we easily solved, and in 2014 I was at the head of the regional headquarters of the Podunavian district, faced unexpected weather opportunities, because what could always have happened to Smederevo was a flood from the Danube, this time a small river of Ralja that made the stream a complete mess, and not only there, but in the whole territory where it passed. That's why I support these steps that are a step forward. I'm talking about prevention here. Prevention isn't an easy thing. That means a lot of activity and a lot of money. Prevention involves both water streams and roads and fire protection and equipment that we should have for our firefighters. I also support fire companies, absolutely, as well as the transfer of competences, as a man who has experience in this area, to city municipalities in the city of Belgrade, because they are the first to face emergency situations and, normally, with the headquarters of the Republic for emergency situations, to deal with them. These are complex problems. We're going forward by passing these laws. When it comes to traffic security, I'm going to say one thing that's not talked about much, which is next. We'd have to respect traffic signals, traffic regulations, and in that way, at a significant percentage, we'd have to reduce the unloved traffic events. What I particularly want to point out, and what is not said, is in smaller municipalities, where regional roads that are not lit, where young people move on the right side of August and thus put themselves in a very delicate situation, and drivers, who don't see them, and a lot of people like that, we've lost. Education in every area is necessary, because in the long 1980s, I got a driver's license, and I don't have a habit of fastening my seat belt. Those young people who later acquired it, the first thing they do when they sit in a car is to tie their seat belts. Please, education, a constant story, first of all with young people, gives results, and that's not expensive. I also support law in the area of justice, and I would have to make a request to you, Mrs. Kuburovic. Namely, a court in Smederjevska Palanca, directed by King Peter in 1927, on 30 May, was established in Smederjevska Palanca on June 1st 1927. On 1 January 2010, a court in Smederjevska Palanca, in a town that has 52,000 inhabitants, and I think the mark of one city, local self-government, police, court, so I ask that, while respecting the applicable legal acts, consider the possibility that not only Smederjevska Palanka, but cities with a similar number of inhabitants, will be restored to basic courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48365	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Stanija Compirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48366	Thank you, Chairman. We have 18 very important laws from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice. They all have the same goal – to improve the lives of citizens in the future. Police are guaranteed security for Serbian citizens, so it is necessary to invest in security. The Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia consistently and with the involvement of all available resources, implements national and legal regulations, in order to combat violence and misbehave, and here we also have the addition of the law on inappropriate behaviour in sports events, which will allow the level of security to rise to a higher level at all sports events. I'll stick to the law on free legal aid. The proposed law on free legal aid for a number of reasons is extremely important for our country and citizens, as it introduces equality for all citizens to access the court, regardless of material status and economic situation. He bears the dimension of justice, justice, and the right to justice. Justified reasons for adopting this law can be found, both in domestic regulations and in numerous international documents that Serbia is obliged to respect. When we talk about internal law, then first of all we need to point out the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and above all Article 32. The Constitution, which guarantees the right to a fair trial and Article 67, which guarantees each individual legal assistance, in accordance with the law, which for the first time in the domestic legal system is the right to legal assistance raised to the level of basic, constitutionally guaranteed human rights. This solution is fully in line with comparable legal trends, the practice of the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. Also, in addition to the constitutional obligation and numerous ratified international acts oblige Serbia to regulate legal aid, develop a system of free legal assistance, based on international and regional human rights documents. In this context, only some of them should be mentioned, such as the General Declaration of the Rights of Man, which the provision of Article 10 provides, that everyone has the exact same right to a fair and public trial before an independent and impartial court, which will decide on his rights and obligations and the basis of any criminal charge against him. One instrument for exercising the right to access to justice and meeting the standards of fair trial is also the right to legal assistance. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees legal aid rights, including free legal aid, is not adequately regulated, nor is there a comprehensively regulated system of delivery and assistance. In this regard, we point out that legal aid provisions are contained in several laws that regulate only certain types of legal aid. We should first and foremost mention the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides that the municipality organises a legal aid service for citizens, the Law on Lawyerry, which provides that the Bar Association can organise the provision of free legal aid, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Judicial Procedure, which provides that persons who are parties to a litigation procedure, due to lack of money, can be freed from these obligations in part and in full, as well as other laws that allowed us to provide assistance, but not entirely. The adoption of the law on free legal aid, as well as the establishment of all these obligations, will create real assistance, in accordance with European and international standards and practices, for our citizens as well. Taking into account all the positive effects that will produce adoption of the proposed law, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will be pleased to support the proposed laws in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48367	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Branka Stamenković. He's not here. My colleague Branimir Rancic. Here, you have 60 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48368	Thank you. In particular, I will remain on one case when it comes to this Emergency Act, and I will say that under the auspices of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities on 27 October 2018, the first meeting of representatives of 20 municipalities and cities from the South Morava Basin was held at the City House in Nis, with the heads of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Office for Public Investment Management and the UNDP Office in Belgrade. The aim of the meeting is, as pointed out, to get acquainted with the initiative for the association and better co-operation of local self-government from this area in situations of natural disasters and emergency situations on preventive action in order to make such situations less effective. In practice, it has proved necessary to re-establish a system similar to the civil protection system...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48369	You're bringing the end of your colleague, Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48370	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-02-0.u48371	I thank you, too. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint and principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No one's applying. According to Article 98(4), I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts in points. From the 1st to the 24th agenda. We move to paragraph 25 – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Assembly before the opening of a single search, I remind you that it is appropriate to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups that unless they have already done so, they have to file a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative, the People's MP, the Prophet Radeta, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Since none of the MPs have reported MPs for debate under this Decision, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby conclude the Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision. We'd be done with today's work. We will continue Monday at 10:00 hours, discussing details of the First Point of the Agenda. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 1950 hours]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Radmilo Kostic and Djorđe Milicevic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for A LAW ON THE DECLARATION OF THE CATASTROFF AND GOVERNMENT OF EXTRANSIVE SITUATIONS under Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Minister Ćatić, Ministry of Interior, Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of Interior and Chiefs of the Emergency Sector, Zivko Babovic, Head of Risk Management at the MUP, Natasa Ignjatovic, Head of the Department of Police, Dragan Mijatovic, Deputy Chief of the Department of Administration and Police and Natasa Raketić, legal adviser at the MUP.
