ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. ) Based on the official record of the presence of Members of the People, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present in the hall, and thus we have conditions for today's work. We're moving on to asking questions. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The first reported was Vojislav Seselj, so Enis Imamovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Djuric and Djordje Vukadinovic. The word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to President Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic - why has the term demarcation been introduced in the debate on resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems? Because then there were speculations in the public that there could be talk of state demarcation, and then that Kosovo's independence would be recognised and allowed to join the UN. It should be made clear to the public that this is never considered in any variant and therefore the term separation must be used. It has been shown that Serbs and Albanians cannot live together in environments where Albanians are dominant. Where Serbs are dominant, everything is normal, everything is neat, living a civilized civil life, but where Albanians are dominant, difficult for Serbs. If they can't live together, they should split up. By what principle? Twelve municipalities with Serbia's majority to remain directly in Serbia's legal system and the rest of Kosovo to gain the highest degree of autonomy. What does the highest degree mean? Not to interfere at all with their internal social relations, with all border crossings being held by the Serbian police. So it can only be in the option as a way of solving problems in Kosovo. Of course, there is no need to rule out a variant of the population exchange where there are small Serb villages, which are completely isolated, that the Serb population then move to areas with the Serb majority, or in Presevo or in Bujanovac, to exchange property with the Shiptarians there. It is the only rational variant, so that all those who count that eventually Kosovo will be recognised in this form or that form as an independent state and that it will be admitted to the UN will simply dispel their fantasmagogre dreams, because neither Russia nor China will allow admission to the UN if Serbia is against it, and Serbia cannot even discuss Kosovo's secession under its constitution. There's no talking about it. So it's only about the arrangement of internal relations. We do not interfere with Albanian self-government, the rest of the municipalities, and why they should interfere, as they do – let them solve their own internal problems, but that we definitely separate these 12 Serb municipalities and that these Serbs can live a completely disreputed concern whether someone will break into them tonight with long pipes, whether someone will slaughter them in their sleep, rob their property, etc. There's one more thing I have to say in this section. It doesn't make any sense anymore, when Albanians challenge a crisis, that Serbia's measures of readiness rise to the highest level both the military and police. Serbia must always have one unit ready for thousands of soldiers and police officers and to enter Kosovo and Metohija on the first next challenge. Why? That's what Resolution 1244 says. The West is going to be making a big fuss, raising shit -- it can't be against Resolution, we're going to cause an international crisis, etc. So what? It is also high time for an international crisis to occur over this 20-year-old occupied national territory. So, the first next provocation – our unit enters. If she needs reinforcements, get in and back up. If she needs an air force, there's an air force. We have guarantees from Russia that Russia will never leave Serbia at all, and in Kosovo in particular, we have guarantees from the People's Republic of China that it will provide us with support in the United Nations.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44447	Thank you. The word has Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44448	Thank you. A few days ago, more precisely on Saturday, we were all witnessing a terrible tragedy that struck Novi Pazar when three of our fellow citizens, Alice and Shems, aged 33 and 25 and their mother, Anica Mojković, died in the fire. Their tragic death is also another warning of the disastrous attitude of the state towards Sandzak and all the citizens who live there. That's why I'm asking for an explanation from Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, head of the MUP Emergency Sector, Predrag Marić and Commander of the Fire Department in Novi Pazar, Darko Belic, how is it possible that the city of 120 000 people does not have the most basic equipment, there is no ordinary ladder and airbag? I ask – who is responsible for such a situation? I also have to commend the firefighters from the neighboring municipality of Rask, who came to help their colleagues. They came with new and equipped vehicles from our neighboring municipality, which has 20,000 inhabitants, and thank them and all the honors. Our fire department in the city of 120,000 residents came to an intervention in some old junk where they didn't even have a mere ladder, but the ladders waited to get out of Raska, to climb up to the third floor of the apartment building to put out fire and save people. Firefighters don't have ladders to climb to the third floor! So, we all pay taxes, we charge budgets, we pay traffic and criminal penalties, 5,000, 10,000, and people are burned alive because the state has some kind of political agenda for Sandzak and for years refuses to equip the fire department with the most ordinary ladders. In all this, at the Public Service, which we are also paying, there is not a single word. How long? How long? In no country in the world, ministers and responsible executives cannot remain in their positions when three people are burned alive on the terrace because of their lack of basic equipment, ordinary ladders. So, on the terrace, on the third floor, in a residential building, in the center of one of the larger cities in the country. It would be honorable for the minister, the chief of the sector and the commander to resign and I call on them to do so today. And I call upon colleagues from other Sandzak parties, not to share in these matters, to perform in these requests in a unique manner. This isn't a question to share on. This is not a question for anyone to collect political points, because this is a defeat for all of us, and in defeats there are no points, there are no winners, we are all defeated by one great injustice and unjust policy. I'm calling on the other parties that are acting in Sandzak to come with us looking for a solution to these points. This isn't just a Bosniak question. The functional fire department doesn't just need Bosniaks. The clinical center, the highway, the railways, they're all things that not only serve the Bosniaks. They serve both Serbs, Albanians, Roma, and all who live in Sandzak. This tragedy could have happened to everyone. She could have stopped it, but it only happened for one reason. Because of the country's maternal relationship with most of the population living in Sandzak, which is Bosniaks. Therefore, whoever is unjust should be told by name and last name – Aleksandre Vukic and Nebojsa Stefanovic, your unfair policy has led to this and you are responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44449	Thank you. It's been over five minutes. The next reported one is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44450	Several issues that are of interest to this home, to the state of Serbia and to the citizens of Serbia. First question. On January 16th, Oliver Ivanovic was killed in a masculine manner this year. We all know who he is, but for more than eight months, none of us know what happened, except that he was murdered. Who killed him? Who had motive for that? What knowledge has been given to our services in charge of this area and who have their own security, according to me, a legal and legitimate presence in the territory where the murder took place? No authority in charge of this, not the prosecution, not the security department, not the police have given any relevant, useful, reasonable, professional statement on the subject, and I think it's very important. Here I ask the Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Justice - what happened, what are the findings, why are they silent about this bloody event? If you don't know, if these people I'm asking don't know anything about it, ask the president of the state, because he says he knows everything. The second issue is about foreign affairs, and I refer the issue to the prime minister and the foreign minister, and it is about today's visit to the president of the Serbian state to Russia. First question - why is this visit without mandatory protocol? Who welcomed the president of the state in Moscow? Who was he seeing? Did he receive regular honors that are not circuses or reality events, but are part of every official visit? Is the president of Serbia on a private visit, a tourist visit or a state visit to Russia? Second question. I hear this is the 15th meeting of the president of Russia and the president of Serbia. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and ask the Minister of Economy -- what are the effects of years-long, five-year talks on the exports of Fiat 500 to Russia and the states created by the former Soviet Union, an independent state? For five years, a great success has been announced and the exports of this Fiat 500. From what I understand, this Fiat 500 stops producing, so I'm asking if one of them has been sold? What about the major effects that have also been announced in recent years on the huge increase in Serbia's exports to Russia, above all, fruit and vegetables when we know customs and statistics say that this is less than 1%, and they expected huge results after EU sanctions introduced by the EU to each other by the Russian and Russian EU? Third question. Tony Blair is mentioned as a negotiator on behalf of Serbia on Kosovo's future status, on Serbia's future status. My question is, on which platform does Tony Blair conduct talks with those he leads, under whose authority and under what conditions? How much and who pays Tony Blair, the former prime minister of Great Britain from a time when the Great Britain, along with other NATO states, bombed Serbia? Who pays him, what platform does he represent, what guidelines, who do they report to? Do we have information on any other advisers from former Prime Minister Guzenbauer, Frattini and others? How much money, whose platform, whose interests are they protecting? What are the effects of the counseling they have done so far and who are they reporting to? Is the Serbian parliament or the Serbian public important enough to find out anything about it? The last question is asked by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Information - on which knowledge and by which call the journalists "Tanjuga", RTS and some other televisions with a national frequency were present on the Gaza Strip when the president of Kosovo or so on. Kosovo "joke" with security and with all of us on the day he glided on Lake Gazivoda? How did it happen that "Tanjug and RTS there...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44451	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44452	Thank you. Our first question is referred to by the Director of the Republic Fund for Pension-Invalid Insurance that, for the entire period of validity of the Law on the Temporary Regulation on how to pay out pensions, it provides a tabular review per month from November 2014 to September 2018: under one, the total amount of pensions per solution. Therefore, the amounts of harmonised pensions set out in the Decisions establishing the right to pension under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Then, monthly amounts, the total amounts of pensions in payment, those actually paid under the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid. The third column – per month to make the difference these two forward amounts, in order to get the exact information on exactly how much pension cuts were made per month for each month of validity of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions were paid, and so that we can carry out this table review as much as it is worth today. We refer the second question to the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic, and Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic. We are interested – how many litigation disputes are launched on today against the Republic of Serbia in front of domestic courts and the European Court of Human Rights for the application of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid and how high is the damages and additional potential costs that could fall on the burden of the budget, i.e. the citizens of Serbia, or again those pensioners whose pensions have been reduced? The next question is to refer to the president of the National Assembly. In fact, as early as December 2017, the state auditor set up an audit of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2016 budget, so I ask whether and when it will be followed by Article 177. Rules of Procedure, and the final budget bill will be analysed in the Assembly and adopted in the form of a law? I am also asking the Ministry of Finance – what has been realised by the recommendations made by the DRI in this revision of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2016 budget, since the arrival of the audit report nearly ten months ago, because the DRI expressed its opinion on the final budget account and cited a lot of materially large remarks? For example, a summary report on the immovable property of the Republic of Serbia does not include data on the assets of all budget users. This means that the central record of the Republic of Serbia's assets is incomplete. It is inadequately arranged to list the financial assets of the Republic of Serbia. No assets worth more than 26 billion have been shown. The main book of the budget is not in line with the assistance books of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and with budget data and regarding the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the capital of companies. So, the data where the state of Serbia owns a stake or shares in companies. These discrepancies are worth about 9.3 billion dinars. This is over 35 billion dinars of unaccounted for. Furthermore, 4.7 billion dinars are not allocated to the budget and are not shown as income from the Republic of Serbia. That's the order of size the amount of quarterly pension cuts from the past four years. It is further stated that the data on the donations received by the Treasury Administration do not cover revenues of an additional 4.5 billion dinars of donations recorded by the People's Bank. One of the recommendations of the auditors is precisely to regulate the consolidation of income and the receipt of direct and indirect budget users in order to show each income on the central roof of the national republican record, because here we are talking about 4.5 or 4.7 billion dinars of unrecorded potential income, that is over 10 billion, did someone then handle more than 10 billion budget revenues less when deciding what amount and how long will pensions be reduced to replace this missing income that is not recorded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44453	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44454	Thank you. My first question goes to the address of the Ministry of Agriculture and Mr Branislav Nedimovic. I wanted to ask him on Thursday, but neither did I make it to his turn, nor was he there. It concerns the sale of the PKK. Somehow in all these political and serious topics and various smoke curtains that, I would say, and tend to throw to produce one political reality in which, we would not want, we all participate, this important national and state issue of sales of the PKK has somehow remained in the other plan. My specific question concerns and I demand from the minister and ministry information about the sale, the assessment and who has made an assessment of the necessity of the sale, why there was no chance or desire for the PKK to be saved and kept because indeed the last and every farmer in Serbia knows that it is not sold to them at the doorstep. The PKK is ahead of Belgrade's home threshold, important in every respect and, as it has been said, in these pale attempts to justify this sale by the regime, that it has been ruined, devastated, in debt and has been for more than half a decade, 16 years to repair this situation and to bring new capable management and combined, i.e. companies and governments under the leadership of the SNS to put good management and make a good plan and rescue of the PKK. Like this, I think the damage is large and long-term and I'm afraid I'm not repairable. Question for this question – is it true that the PKB buyer of our jewels is agricultural, agrarian, that it is a company that is now registered in Iriga recently with 100 dinars of founding capital on a domestic natural person? The second issue and the most important issue, goes to the address of the president of the state, prime minister and the MUP, although the first two addresses do not generally answer questions, the third one answers, but mostly unsatisfactory. It concerns the most important state and national issue at this time and yesterday, and today and tomorrow, it is KIM, and an important segment within that issue, which is Resolution 1244, which, by which it is my opinion, our authority, this current government, has a maternal relationship and as if it's trying to sort of baffle, marginalize and push under the rug itself. This could best be seen now, last week at a UN General Assembly meeting, where our prime minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic, managed not to mention the most important international document on which the deed, or demands and expectations of Serbia regarding KIM, were based. President Vukic has spoken inadequately of the resolution by saying so many times and by the way. On the other hand, he is visiting Russia today, so he can check, although it is not so, Russian representatives, diplomatically from the lower ones to the highest ones constantly, and each time they point out that they support the agreement and the agreement between Belgrade and Pristina and always say -- in line with Resolution 1244. Such a clear stance, unfortunately, has no Serbian state leadership, either by the minister, and especially by the prime minister and president of the country. Just as a little reminder, I say and symbolically it may be convenient that today, at this point I say, Alexander Vukic is talking to Vladimir Putna. Only within a month, Minister Sergey Lavrov was mentioned three times in the Security Council, so where Mrs Brnabic did not arrive, mentioned Resolution 1244, in Socia Ivica Dacic and Banja Luka now recently, on 21 September, 21 August, 28 September, not to mention Mary Zaharov, not to mention some other low-ranking high-ranking officials. In response from the foreign ministry, he referred to me, our foreign ministry, Russia is said to be quoted as saying that Russia supports every agreement between Belgrade and Pristina. Yeah, but there's no point stuck. The following is always said - according to Resolution 1244. So my question is why does our political summit and state ignore it, or does it feel uncomfortable because of Resolution 1244, rather than have others remind us of the importance of that Resolution? Someone can say it's a letter on paper, but the letter on paper is important, especially if that paper is an important international document, which, by the way, is still in force, regardless of what they did right or wrong afterwards, I speak for political representatives of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44455	Thank you. It's Alexander Jerkov's emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44456	Thank you, President. In 2013, on March 26th, Zorica Jovanovic of Batocina became the first woman from Serbia to prove that her child was stolen from her maternity home in 1983 and that her child, who was told at the hospital that she had died, was actually alive. On 26 March 2013, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ruled that the right to family life had been violated, that it should receive some compensation, and the part to which my question today is concerned is that the European Court of Justice, at that time, obliged Serbia to adopt a law on missing babies and to establish mechanisms to ensure that every parent in Serbia, whose child had been stolen from maternity care, was depravated. The verdict became legal on 9 September 2013, which means that the deadline for Serbia to adopt the law was 9 September 2014. Today, on October 2, 2018, colleagues and colleagues, it has been more than four years since Serbia had to adopt a law on missing babies and four years later the government of the Republic of Serbia is unable to propose the law, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority in Serbia are unable to adopt the law. Meanwhile, the Council of Europe warned Serbia on several dozens of occasions that the law must be passed. In the previous year alone, it was 21 September 2017, 7 December 2017, 15 March 2018 and the last time on 7 June 2018. On that occasion, Serbia was given a deadline to adopt the law by 1 October 2018, more than four years later than it had to adopt. That deadline for co-workers and colleagues expired yesterday. Yesterday was the last deadline that the Council of Europe gave Serbia to adopt the law on missing babies and my question to you as colleagues in the National Assembly – why are you sitting here? Why did you run for MPs? Do you know that we should adopt this law not because we are obliged to comply with the European Court of Human Rights' rulings, but because we are obliged to work for the citizens of Serbia? I have 22 times suggested that this law be passed. I'll do it 23 times today and I won't be ashamed to suggest it until you're ashamed not to vote for it. In my previous session, I have suggested 30 times that this law be passed and I have a question for you again – what is the problem? Why don't you want this law to be passed? Why don't you want to help those people with the worst thing that's happened to them, probably that can happen to anyone, to come to such justice and to such satisfaction? In the assembly procedure, we have a bill by the government to fulfil its obligation to the Council of Europe, which since March of this year, and has been in the previous session, does not come in any way on the agenda. I understand why it's not coming to the agenda, parents said it was an insult to them. You are angry when on social networks these days citizens are putting out lists of MPs who have not voted in favour of laws relating to the financing of treatment abroad for sick children. You're saying it's the drawing of targets for MPs at the head, saying it's the collapse of institutions, to ask you, isn't it the collapse of institutions that you vote on bells? What are you waiting for the President of the Assembly to ring and then vote for something? My question to President Gojkovic is why do you not ring the bell when there is a draft law on missing babies on the agenda and how long do you intend to wait?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44457	Four minutes, 56 seconds, you asked only me, obviously. Let me tell you, since I've been President of Parliament's office, I've never called anyone before, it can be proven. It is funny, but watch my hands, I'm not ringing anyone. Does it ring a bell, I really don't know. As far as the law in question is concerned, here is the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr Petrovic. A week ago, I suggested that he put the bill you spoke of on the Committee's agenda. Ask him a question when it will be, he told me in the second half of October and that such an agreement had been reached with the minister of justice. I can put it on the agenda right now, and you yourself said in your 10th or 11th sentence that it's understandable to you why it's not in front of the tide, because this is already the second draft law that the Government of Serbia proposes, the law on missing babies, but individual associations are always opposed to adoption, so I don't understand your question at all. (Alexandra Jerkov: I believe. ) Of course, because your question is obviously politically colored, and it is not intended to pass a law that will satisfy the categories of citizens of Serbia to which matter and matter will apply. (Alexandra Jerkov: Shame on you. ) Thank you for saying – shame on you either, but you just want to listen to yourself, and I am giving the answer to your question. Someone likes it, someone doesn't like it, but someone wants to find a solution that they'll be happy with, and you want to put it on the agenda, to discuss the bill here, so that you're saying you're against that law. Completely two different political views of the law being passed. If it's your question that you want a bill, do you want to stand by that bill or do you want to pass a law here that will satisfy the citizens to which matter does it apply? It's such a big difference in policymaking between people who make sure they're happy citizens and those who want to score some kind of political point on someone else's accident, for which neither you nor I are responsible, but someone long ago in the past. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44458	Thanks for the applause. It's a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Paraori from Banat Karadjordjev asked that their suffering be brought to the National Assembly and that the agriculture minister, if possible, advocated that their problem be resolved. Namely in Banatski Karadjordjev, a process of co-operation has been implemented beyond all rules, with numerous irregularities, so that the largest number of small holdings is taken away from a good country, in return given a country of poorer quality. Also, in the commission process, they were members of people who are in direct conflict of interest and who are personally benefiting from this kind of commission. This is for couples from Banat Karajordev and an extremely emotional issue, because these are the descendants of our Thessaloniki warriors, who have been given the country as a credit for their struggle in the First World War. In their homes, they keep their great-grandfather's medals strong. They react very emotionally to the idea that the country called it, they call it a volunteer country, in this way kidnapping them, and before the comcommissioning process itself, they were promised that the volunteer country would not be touched. They are asking the Minister of Agriculture to pay attention, to get acquainted with this case, and to do everything in his jurisdiction to remove irregularities that were made during the comcommissioning process, i.e. to start the whole process over according to the law and the prescribed rules. The second question is for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. The MP group Enough last week presented to the public a draft law on Kosovo and Metohija, which has a basis for a cross-section between the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and international law, more specifically Resolution 1244, which proposes a long-term sustainable solution to Kosovo's status and Metohija and resolving other problems that the population in the southern Serbian province suffers from. As a model for solving this problem, the relationship between Denmark and the Faeroe Islands was taken. The adoption of this law, which our Constitution provides for, would avoid any need to sign any binding agreement with Pristina, would remove one of the most common reasons listed as the reason for the need for this agreement, which is that we do not have constitutional control over complete territory. So, with the help of this law, that control is being established, Kosovo and Metohija are being completely subdued under our Constitution, constitutional and legal order and international law. Enough was planned in October to organise public debates, round tables, public hearings and sent a copy of this letter to the Serbian Orthodox Church, Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, with a copy of this law, the draft law, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly. This opens the long-awaited internal dialogue on Kosovo and Metohija. The question for the Prime Minister is whether he will take part in an important public debate on a solution to Kosovo and Metohija's status, proposed by the MP's group Enough has been through a draft of this law to become a proposal and enter the assembly procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44459	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44460	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, happened on Saturday, heard and probably saw, a terrible accident that struck the city of Novi Pazar, a fire that unfortunately, yesterday, was seen, took three young lives. This unfortunate event marked, above all, the untimely and inadequate reaction of firemen from the New Market units, primarily caused by the lack of fire extinguishing equipment, as well as the assistance of those at risk in these situations. On the other hand, this event marked heroism, the solidarity of neighbours of Novopazarac, Serbs and Bosniaks who have indeed created themselves here in a large number and who have managed to make it very difficult, with the help of the public enterprises of the town of Novi Pazar and the assistance that has arrived from the town of Raška, localize the fire, stop the fire and stop the disaster, because the fire threatened to endanger the entire building and burn down a large complex of buildings in Novi Pazar. So I want to thank all the citizens of Novi Pazar for a truly heroic act and solidarity that adorns the citizens of Novi Pazar. The New Pazar City Emergency Station refused to adopt a report by a fire rescue unit, since it did not match the statements made by citizens and people from public enterprises who were on site, with the conclusion that our unit was insufficiently equipped and that everything must be done to ensure that it is equipped with quality fire and rescue equipment as quickly as possible. In any case, it was found that it could have been much better to react and that it could have really been done more quickly and qualityly to repair this accident. This fire in Novi Pazar was preceded by several other fires that prompted me to do so in 2015, when we adopted so-called. Tamara's law or the Fire Protection Act, which was an affirmative and good law, I really suggest a minister and invite him to better equipment and at that time a fire rescue unit in Novi Pazar, and to employ more people in it. Of course, I insisted that they be citizens of the New Market because there are really few people who are from Pazar and who are Bosniak nationalities in the unit itself. Since the citizens of Novi Pazar themselves know better the infrastructure of buildings and are further motivated to develop this unit, its engagement and its operation. However, in addition to the promise that we have received, nothing has really been done so far, and I am using this opportunity to appeal once again to the MUP and the Emergency Sector, whose intelligence, the sole authority, is this fire department in Novi Pazar, to strengthen the infrastructure of this fire department, to strengthen it in equipment, strengthen it in people, to train these people more and to employ as many people as possible, as the city of 130 thousand inhabitants with specific infrastructure, narrow streets, of course, are able to be citizens from New Pazar, once again I say, who are in favour of providing assistance, because they know better the infrastructure and are ultimately further motivated to provide assistance, because they defend their city. I will remind you once again that no local self-government is in charge of such fire departments, but I must also commend the local community that was immediately on site with the mayor, where the directors of public enterprises participated in the very ceasefire and many of the citizens whom I thank this time. Of course, I know there are problems in this country, but I repeat once again that protecting people and their property is always our first priority, and so I call for a quick reaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44461	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44462	I thank the president. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I tried here last Thursday to answer some questions on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from ministers who were here to answer parliamentary questions and I regrettably must conclude and now that the ministers have not answered any of the only questions I have asked them. So today I'm going to try to do it with the prime minister. I ask the question of the prime minister, Mrs. Ani Brbanic, given that her ministers did not give answers, I hope this time that she, as someone who heads the government of the Republic of Serbia, will be able to give the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the strength to answer some of the very important issues concerning the Republic of Serbia. The first question I ask is in the spirit of what we have heard from the President of the Republic that his policy towards KIM has been defeated. He blamed Serbia's citizens for the defeat, he called them crying, he called them a losing people, but we just don't know what that policy was or what it was about or what the policy was about, but we know it was citizens, and we don't know Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question, what policy is this that has suffered defeat? The second question I also ask the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, is that it will be the next policy you will represent in relation to KIM since it is the previous one we do not know about that has been defeated, to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this parliament. Is this the policy Tony Blair is now representing by traveling around the world and representing Alexander Vukic's policy and ultimately, who pays him, what does he pay him for and what on behalf of Serbian citizens he can negotiate, someone who was one of the main people who conducted NATO aggression in 1999? Also, I ask the question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, is she aware of what she has done about the decision taken by the government of Kosovo, where in the area of the Municipality of Gracanica, in particular in Ajval, Kosovo government residences where certain institutions from Pristina will be relocated to part of the territory of Gracanica municipality and the president of Gracanica municipality has given part of the territory of its municipality that Albanians are building their residences there? What will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do about this, or have you already started to distinguish? Serbian List representatives threatening the Alliance for Serbia, leaders and members of the Alliance for Serbia would be better off giving them an answer to what they agree with their coalition partners, Ramush Haradinaj, Hashim Thaci and others with whom they rule together today in Kosovo? The next question I also didn't get an answer is who killed Oliver Ivanovic and why and why and why and why the investigation continued and why the Brussels negotiations were continued if we heard from the government and the president of the Republic that negotiations would not continue in Brussels until the murderers of Oliver Ivanovic were found, and it was only 40 days since his murder and these negotiations continued. Furthermore, I ask the question, did we find out who these people who were tearing down in downtown Belgrade, in Savala, on April 24, 2016? Is it possible that in one country we don't have an answer to that question today? The next question is also, who is responsible for the fall of the support wall on Corridor 10 and how long has the BIA investigation been carried out by Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic as a resolute minister? I also ask the question why is it not and when will an illegal object be destroyed on the Kopalnik that shows, it is a picture and an opportunity of how this country is run and, of course, another question, why is Serbia still on the FATF blacklist suspected of money laundering and terrorist financing along with North Korea, with Ethiopia, Syria, Iraq, Iran, Yemen? The only country in Europe is Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44463	The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44464	Dear People's MPs and respected citizens of Serbia who follow this start of the regular autumn session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, God helps all. I was very pleased to listen at the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Serbian Anthem "God of Justice", and it is good to hear that we are starting our parliamentary work with prayer, because do not forget, the anthem "God of Justice" is a prayer. What I want first of all to ask the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, is who authorized him to negotiate on KIM? I do not remember that for these two and a half years the current National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has ever come to the agenda, and I will meet the citizens of Serbia what are our current topics of the agenda – the preservation of African-European migration birds of water habitats, the protection and sustainable development of Karpat and the preservation of the population of bats in Europe. So, these are the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the topic of KIM, which the whole world has been talking about for two and a half years, cannot come to the agenda of the current assembly. Presidency Secretary-General Nikola Selakovic recently claimed that Aleksandar Vukic is the chief negotiator. I'm asking again, who authorized him and when? When has this Parliament adopted a platform based on which he can negotiate something and be authorized at all? Also, Aleksandar Vukic himself said yesterday that he did not negotiate Tony Blair on his behalf on the distinction, the border corrections, the division of Kosovo, the recognition of an independent Kosovo, but he himself negotiated. I repeat again, who authorized him and when? The second question to the same address of the president of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is that I seek public denials that the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja as part of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia have never been or will ever be subject to any negotiations on demarcation, border correction, division of KIM or any exchange of our own. Never has a representative of the current government denied publicly that Presevo, Bujanovac and the Bear Territories of the Republic of Serbia are currently on the table of secret negotiations between Alexander Vukic and Hashim Thaci? In addition, the role of son George Soros, Alexander Soros, who repeatedly met with Alexander Vukic, and several days ago with Hashim Thaci, publicly posted a joint picture with Hashim Thaci on his Twitter account and said he had discussed Kosovo's recognition with him. Whose recognition of Kosovo? Is it possible that his friend Alexander Vukic is meeting regularly here in Belgrade and around the world? Isn't that the same Serbian dusk George Soros whom SNS and the regime's tabloids constantly attack to make some kind of coup, a revolution in Serbia, and then the president of SNS and the president of Serbia meet with his son, and apparently he is a mediator in talks with Thaci. I ask, at the same time, to consider and to answer the question -- what is the purpose of the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja coordination centre, which does nothing at all, and how is the Bear municipality that has nothing to do with Presevo and Bujanovac not treated in this joint coordination centre, and what is the Presevo Valley that never existed and now exists, but there are municipalities Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja? And in that sense, the Serbian Dvora Movement requires the abolition of this co-ordination centre that otherwise does nothing. A very important question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is - who is the Minister of Culture in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is it Vladan Vukosavljevic or is it Željko Mitrovica? When Vladan Vukosavljevic rightly criticised the reality of programmes to be banned, abolished, taxed and otherwise prevented from poisoning and dispersing this unhappy people, he stopped against reality show and Prime Minister and Minister of the Army and Police, which is particularly interesting, sided with Zeljko Mitrovica, as a true culture minister, or non-culture in Serbia. And the final question for the Anti-Corruption Agency - did the SNS wash 246 million dinars that were paid at the expense of a phantom marketing agency that was not even registered in the APR and does not exist, which I ask, is the property of the godfather Alexander Vukic, Goran Veselinovic, and is that how two million euros were transferred to private pockets on state money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44465	Time. Thank you. Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is the Ministry of Finance and the IRS. Is it true that by campaigning for the presidential election, the political party Dveri bought its leader clothes on 27 April 2017? You know very well that the funds, I have all the invoices, I got from this political organization by the "insider" who delivered me their entire accounting, on April 27th the political party "Doveri" to its leader, who has a salary of 100,000, buys clothes. Says the male jacket - 24,600 dinars. It's got to be some kind of business. This is where most of us wear suits, bringing Lale from Pirot with seven or eight thousand dinars, a suit complete. Says the man's jacket, number two, 19,680 dinars. I see there's something expensive and company. And then on, male jacket three 19,440 dinars. Why would they have one jacket? Best to have three. Men's pants 12,600 dinars. Let's move on. The men's pants again 17,760 dinars, and then finally the man's coat 15,000 dinars. Now I'm asking, if these funds were intended and the state gave them up for an election campaign, I'm asking the authorities if they can be spent on buying clothes to the leader of a political party, which, by the way, has a salary of 100,000 dinars? Let's move on. My next question is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Foreign Ministry, is this Tony Blair? So, Zoran Djindjic and Tony Blair. Did that meet happen, how many times? How many times has Boris Tadic met with Tony Blair? How many times has Boška Obradovica's friend Vuk Jeremic met with Tony Blair? How many times was he thrilled and did he convey that enthusiasm to the Ljotics? So how many times has this happened, and has the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, made any money at US agencies and these meetings for allegedly lobbying, etc.? I believe that colleague Zivkovic, who was here, was saying something about Tony Blair that he hadn't seen this. He was probably under the influence of "firewater", he simply neglected to see it, but I ask my organs to answer that question. Furthermore, the agriculture ministry, the question, is it true that Serbia's agrarian's exports jumped twice? So, that the Serbian agrarian's exports to Russia have increased twice since it has been claimed here that exports have jumped by 1% and there have been very inappropriate talk about Russia and our relations with this brotherly and friendly country of ours? I further ask, what will the government do about the threats Bosko Obradovic has sent calling on the military to violently and forcefully replace the president of the Republic of Serbia? What the Justice Department is going to do, what the D.A. is going to do, what the police are going to do because they're breaking Article 309. A criminal code that says – Who in the intention of jeopardising the constitutional arrangement or Serbia's security calls or encourages its constitutional arrangement to change by force, the highest state authorities or representatives of those bodies will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. I'm asking the state, the government, the D.A.'s office to respect the law, because there's got to be a law enforcement force here, not a law of force. And finally to ask, what will the Government of the Republic do about Montenegro's unprecedented anti-Serbian campaign where part of the Montenegrin people, the leadership, claims that the Serbian army occupied Montenegro in 2018?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44467	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to deny what Djordje Vukadinovic said that Anna Brnabic did not mention Resolution 1244 in a recent visit to the UN. So Prime Minister Ana Brnabic specifically requested that the UNMIK mission not be reduced either in the number of members or in the duration of the term of office at a UN forum held in New York. I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia that it would not remain false that the UN Prime Minister did not mention Resolution 1244 and the UN mission in Kosovo and Metohija. What I want to ask is, that is, my question has been addressed to the DRI, and it is about Rodoljub Sabic, a false Commissioner for information of public importance, who is increasingly showing his right political face from day to day. Namely, although he was once DOS perjanica in 2001, 2002 as vice president of the National Assembly, and suddenly turned into an independent state body, he, more specifically on 26 September 2018, presented a whole series of lies to the newspaper "Today" known for his objective writing about Alexander Vukic and the SNS. He said that at his invitation, the DRI came to his service of the Personal Data Protection Commissioner and information of public importance, that it had produced a report, that the report was published on the official DRI site and that the state auditor found that I, as the chairman of the SNS parliamentary group, had agreed that Rodoljub Sabic had spent a million and 350,000 dinars for his official travels. At the same time, he accused me of being me, and said "Martinovic's MPs". There are no "Martinovic's sender" here, except for SNS MPs, so "Martinovic's MPs" spent 150m dinars or in Euros a million point twenty-sevenm euros. Then he went on in his usual manner, as we from the SNS bots threatened him with a bullet in his head, a knife, to protest him, to spread the incredible news that he was giving information to some secret service, and at the same time I want to remind the citizens of Serbia that this same Rodoljub Sabic, my colleague, Marijan Ristic, was called "a lying thief", just because he asked him whether he had received 80,000 pounds from the British Embassy and then the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, which later turned out to be completely true? So, I want to ask the DRI, first, did it come to the Commissioner's office, at the request of the Commissioner, or did it come by its own initiative, according to a regular programme that the DRI has to review the operations of all state authorities, including the Commissioner for Public Information? Is it true that Rodoljub Sabic spent 1,350,000 dinars on his official travels or is it another figure? So, I ask the DRI -- has the final report on Mr. Rodoljub Sabic's business audit and his associates been published on her official web presentation? Also, I ask Rodoljub Sabic, as a state authority, who I know is not independent, to work openly against his country, to work openly against its interests, to work openly against the interests of our intelligence services, when will he stop such activities, because he does not receive wages from these foreign intelligence services, but from the budget of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44469	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Dusan Tarbuk and Stefana Miladanovic. Please allow us to determine the quorum before we move to the vote. Please insert your cards into the e-system MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 146 MPs present in the hall. The first, second, third, fourth and fifth sessions of the First Regular Session were presented to you, then, the minutes of the sixth, seventh and eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly and the records of the 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th and 19th Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, held 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 22 March 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, held on 26, 27, 28 and 29 March and 2, 3, 4 and 5 April in this year. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, held on 11, 12, 16, 17, 18 and 19 April of this year. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – two, voted 17 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record by majority vote. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, held on 24, 25, 26 and 27 April and 3, 4, 7, 8 and 9 May. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I put to the vote Paper of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, held on 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 May 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one with abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8 June 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 12, 13, 15, 18, 19 and 20 June 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 21, 22, 25, 26, 27 and 28 June 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the 15th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 28 and 29 May 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstention – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the 16th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 7 June 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the 17th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 19 July 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstention – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the 18th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 23 July 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the 19th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 15 September 2018. (The People's MPs of the Democratic Party earn. We'll call Hope Kolundji to teach us the next time it's waving hands, legs, and Mrs. Alexander Jerkov, who was her deputy, who, when she's not waving, is waving. There's footage. I don't do that, I don't have time. And we can wave like propellers. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstention – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. We're moving on to a decision-making procedure. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2018. Please plead. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote a proposal from the parliamentary group enough to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda – a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please vote. Finalising vote: for – 124. I find this proposal has not passed to be classified as an emergency procedure. I think you should, but whatever you want. I'm sorry, it's over, it doesn't take 126. I am putting on the vote the proposal of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to put, after an urgent procedure, on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please plead. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group to put on the agenda – Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please plead. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that this proposal has been voted upon. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure – a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the General Court in Somboro I am concluding the vote: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – is there. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I would like to put the proposal of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group to put it on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, – Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision... I ask the MPs from Bodrum not to interfere with the vote and not to use cell phones. ... on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly... ... All right, from Thessaloniki... ... The Republic of Serbia. Please vote. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I would like to put the Government's proposal on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, of amending and supplementing the Water Act. Please plead. Finalising vote: in – six. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Chabradi suggested putting on the agenda, following an emergency procedure – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to determine the consequences of industrial pollution, water, air and land, according to the health of the residents of the town of Pančev, the municipality of Bor, Obrenovac municipality, as well as the inhabitants of municipalities along the Veliki Bačka canal (Vrbas, Kula Crvenka, Sivac). I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the Dveri Parliamentary Group's proposal to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to not solving the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in charge of business banks with credit indexed in Swiss francs. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. A group of 60 MPs suggested that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a discharge of the Verica Radeta from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – eight, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I would like to put the motion of MP Gjorge Vukadinovic to be put on the agenda by emergency procedure – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put the motion of MP Gjorge Vukadinović on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. We're going to the agenda supplemental points. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Does he want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Radoslav Milojičić to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Radoslav Milojic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and the media. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Radoslav Milojičić to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the motion by MP Radoslav Milojičić to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the motion by MP Radoslav Milojic to supplement the agenda of the session – the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Army of Serbia. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by MP Radoslav Milojčić to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unauthorized listening by the Military Security Agency (VBA), which, without a decision of the court, has been spied by political parties, union leaders and individual judges. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has, and I realize that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Radoslav Milojčić to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy in the Schengen vehicle factory "Gosa" from Smederjevska Palanka. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – no one with abstentions – has, and I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on the financing of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44470	Thank you. Of course, the financing of the AP Vojvodina is one of the key issues for the quality of life of the citizens of Vojvodina and its citizens, and I really believe that we must have a serious debate on why and 11 years after the adoption of the Constitution, 12 years after the adoption of the Constitution, what the Law on the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is to pass a law on the financing of the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, is not met. To be clear, I have no understanding of previous governments that have not done so in the period until 2012, but it seems to me that those who today need to answer questions why this has not happened in the previous six years are those who today make up the majority in the Serbian Parliament and who make the same most more or less similar composition in the previous six years. I didn't make the bill myself. This is the bill made by the government of the AP Vojvodina, which was made in the context of one broad consultation held in Vojvodina, and indeed it implies that as the original revenues of the province, those revenues necessary for Vojvodina and its government to do everything possible to make the quality of life of citizens and citizens of the AP Vojvodina better. That's not the money that's supposed to belong to the government of Vojvodina. That's the money that's supposed to belong to her citizens. These are the money the AP used or used in the previous period for pregnant women, for farmers, for those who start their jobs, for the development of municipalities, for the development of cities. These are the money that should enable the citizens of Vojvodina to fund everything that the Constitution guarantees them, which, by the way, is a shameful little. I say Vojvodina has used this before, since Vojvodina and its government have been spending most of the money for the Belgrade Game Festival lately. The evil languages and reformers could conclude that because certain organisers of the Belgrade Game Festival were very supportive of the SNS in the previous city elections, but if the government of the AP believes that there are no other priorities in Vojvodina and its culture than the Belgrade Game Festival, then it should be an honor to them, but in any case, and the money you take away from the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44471	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against – no one with abstentions – there is and I realize that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be completed with the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44472	I thank the president. The law on textbooks is one of the bad laws that Minister Sarcevic has proposed here in the National Assembly, and you have adopted it so badly and therefore I have proposed a law that might somehow improve the Law on textbooks. There are no good words that might point out how important textbooks are as a basic teaching tool for our children who go to school. The situation is such that our textbooks are outdated, overcome, very often wrong, that they are too expensive, too heavy, that they are neither good for teachers nor for students, nor for parents, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has absolutely no intention of correcting such a situation. At the time of the previous minister's term, Srdjan Verbic, for whom we do not have many nice words in the DS, a law on textbooks was proposed. It turned out later that Verbic, who today and himself witnessed this, was exposed to incredible pressures from certain publishers who have a monopoly in the Republic of Serbia, that these pressures came from the cabinets of the then prime minister, and today's President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, who put himself directly on the side of the publishing lobby and those who earn money in this country because parents in Serbia will buy absolutely everything that the teacher tells them they need and that Alexander Vukic has thus sided with those who recruit parents and for the expense of textbook publishers. The law that I propose actually speaks of that our textbooks should be adapted to the time in which we live, to be adapted to the needs of schools, teachers, students and parents in the 21st century, that they should be such that children are educated for what they are expected to do after schooling, and not that they themselves are reduced to the way our schooling works, which is that our children sit passively during the time, listen to what the teacher tells them, and that their assessment in the future depends solely on whether they reproduced well what they heard in class. I believe that this time you will not accept that this law is adopted this way, but I think that at least we should talk about this at least we should start talking about it because it's amazing how important it is for both children and teachers and parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44473	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – has, and I realize that this proposal has not been accepted. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44474	I thank the president. You have given me some incorrect information in response to the parliamentary question, I would say both malicious and I would ask you to refrain from commenting this time since you do not have a business opportunity to comment on what I am about to say. I see that my colleagues are having a crazy time and they don't listen to what I'm talking about, and I'm going to tell you one more time today that yesterday, October 1, 2018, the last deadline that the Council of Europe has given the Republic of Serbia to pass the missing babies law. That deadline expired four years ago. The Council of Europe has warned Serbia on several dozens of occasions since then that it must adopt the law. It's funny to you now, and it's probably funny when you think about it, but believe me, you wouldn't think it'd be funny if you saw any of the parents' associations who write every day, probably asking you to meet them. Believe me, they absolutely don't care who's from which party, who's who he voted for and who's when he's in power. They care about us one thing, and it's to find out the truth about what happened to their children, which someone told them they died. President Gojkovic, now gone, has recently deceived the citizens, saying it never rings in this assembly, now I see that it was actually the administration, Vice President Marinkovic, pressing the bell, when you colleagues should vote for something to vote for. You get angry when on social networks, the names of MPs who don't vote for some laws are published, you say it's the collapse of institutions, you say it's a mockery of the National Assembly, believe me, for the greater destruction of the reputation of the National Assembly, I haven't heard, from you sitting here, laughing, talking on the phone, and waiting for Marinkovic to press the bell, to vote for the people to whom the worst thing happened in life, to get what kind of approach to truth and justice. Instead, the government of the Republic of Serbia offered 15,000 euros in exchange for the truth about what happened to their children. When, as someone said, the second half of October, vote for it, think about whether you would vote for someone to give you 15,000 euros and take your child, and then think about whether or not you'll press the key when you hear the bell.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44475	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft agricultural land law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does Dr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44476	Thank you, Vice President. The Law on Agricultural Land is one of the laws adopted in the previous assembly but proposed by the same government, then represented by our colleague, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, and the same majority in this Assembly. This law defines, in addition to other rather problematic things, that a third of the land, owned by the state, in every local self-government in Serbia, can be given to one investor, less by choice by the president of the municipality, or by the mayor, in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, and without any public competition, without any criteria, without any respect for the rules and beyond any transparent procedure. The practice has shown, what we have warned about when this law is proposed here, and you colleagues and colleagues have adopted it, which is that this land is mainly shared by SNS committees, SNS business partners, selected tycoons, people who founded companies just days before making decisions about getting a third of the best agricultural land in that municipality and now we see what the problem is. The problem is that, under one, it is the best agricultural land that exists in these municipalities. None of your councilmen, none of your business partners, none of your tycoons, will take the land of the second, third, fourth, or fifth categories, they all take the land of the first category, which means that you tens of thousands of families, who live exclusively from it, who process the land of agriculture owned by the state, are condemned to either stop farming, or to work as paralegals on the land that you gave to your committees and your tycoons. What you give them, gentlemen, is not yours. This land in Vojvodina was taken by couples for generations of swamps and made of it the most fertile agricultural land in this part of Europe. So the moment you walk away from power, all these contracts will be broken, your tycoons, your committees and your business partners will be taken away and returned to those to whom the country belongs, which is the duchy pair, and be sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44477	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, for—12 MPs, against—there is no one who has been held back, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44478	Thank you. It is difficult to decide in which SNS education has done greater damage. Is this a higher education where the entire accreditation process has been put under direct control by the minister, in which the law has been passed solely so that one of our colleagues can accredit his illegal university, which has been working for six years with special decisions, although it fails to obtain any permission from all the competent bodies involved in this country's accreditation. Is this in secondary education, where she introduced forced child labour and sold it as a dual education and a way for children to become more easily employed after school or in high school, where after two days of training, she introduced nine new subjects, which those who need to teach absolutely do not know what they are serving or how they should teach, or what they should look like or in primary schools, where she introduced absolute chaos through the constant desire of the minister to compete and buy love, I don't know who they are, representing themselves as a major reformer, and that these reforms are neither well designed, well planned and ultimately, nor well implemented. Our schools are full of problems. I think it's clear to everyone, both teachers and parents that what schools look like today, it's not what the 21st century school is supposed to look like. The biggest lie in this sense is that we have a lot of unemployed people because our people are stupid, uneducated, untrained for the jobs they need to do and that the problem with our education system is that it doesn't create good workers. We believe in the DS that the problem of our education system is that it does not create good citizens, those who can critically think about the world around them, those who are equipped with the knowledge of the 21st century, those who can manage the moment they finish school and build themselves a future, build their own life in this country, the way they should have. Of course, that's a thing we don't understand ourselves about, which I believe we'll never understand, because you good citizens don't need, because you wouldn't have any chance of having them, you just need those who will be happy tomorrow to get a job for 200 euros at a factory whose arrival you bought. Obviously, that's the kind of education system you're building.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44479	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12 MPs, against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Novi Sad, in connection with the privatisation of ATP Vojvodina and the construction of an inter-urban bus station in Novi Sad, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44480	Thank you, Vice President. I am advised here by my colleagues that I am not reaching out to your parliamentary group and MPs from the majority, so let's see if we can reach out to the MPs for the majority and their vote, despite the fact that you're not pressing the button, we'll reach the court rulings. On 9 May 2013, the Supreme Cassation Court ruled in, for us Novosadjans, a famous and quite expensive case in which a certain Ilija Devic sues the town of Novi Sad because he claims it is damaged in one business with the city and therefore suffers damages of over tens of millions of euros. It is, of course, the construction of the bus station, us, the Novosadians, unfortunately, extremely well known. I say – unfortunately, because on several occasions we have already paid for the mistakes of the mayor at the time. But let's see what the Supreme Casation Court found on that occasion. The agreement concluded by the litigators, which is Maja Gojkovic and Ilija Devic, is obviously contrary to certain social norms and principles of bond law and contrary to good business practices. Its execution would significantly disrupt material goods at the expense of the public transport company, and the parties were dealing with bad intentions, i.e. In order to do damage to the third party and make it possible for the prosecutor to benefit. There is no doubt that both parties knew that there was an illegal motive and a bad intention. It's both parties' fault and their guilt is the same. This comes from the common will and intent and objective of the treaty. From previous exposure, related to security, motive, bad intentions, illicit object of action, it is no doubt that the responsibility of the Contracting Party is the same. This implies that there is a shared responsibility for the damage caused in equal proportion. To translate into Serbian, to us Novosadjans, Maja Gojkovic comes 50m euros. What she has agreed, which costs Novosadjan 100m euros, for the job, the Supreme Cassation Court, not the Democratic Party, not some tabloid, says it's just as guilty as the one who sues her, so I expect Mrs Gojkovic to have no intention of paying the Novosadians from personal funds or from the party's assets, I see that you have enough money, 50m euros, because her crime and her thief in Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44481	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no one who had abstention for – 14 MPs, against – there was no one who had abstention – 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Dr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2017. Does Dr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44482	Thank you. This bill is in fact our support of the petition launched by the scientific community, behind which the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, behind which more than 300 professors, scientists and lecturers in our colleges, were asked to withdraw the Law on Higher Education from the assembly procedure, i.e. the bill when it was in the procedure, and after it was adopted, to put the law out of force. The reason for their attitude and their demand is that this law, as Mladen Sarcevic proposed it and as you adopted it, was placed absolutely the entire process of accreditation of colleges exclusively under the control of the executive authority, and in many of its segments exclusively under the personal minister's control. It is that our colleague, who is not present here, Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, is in the role of the chairman of the Committee on Education and as the owner of a private university who for years has not been able to accredit any of his teaching programs, planted only hours before the start of the vote and before the start of the assembly debate, through the Committee, whose chairman, the amendments, whose entire accreditation process has been unthinked, moved from the hands of those who in this country can be dealt with and placed under the control of the minister, under the control of the government and under the control of the Serbian Progressive Party. We do not plead here to speak on behalf of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts or those who signed the petition, we simply join their request. Since we are MPs, this is the instrument at our disposal. I urge you, colleagues, to vote for this proposal, so that we can come together to a way in which the accreditation process can be arranged differently, because it is not worth Mufti's university to be ashamed of here and muddy your cheek. Believe there are more important things than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44483	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no one with abstention who voted for the eight Messengers of the people. 145 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former President SO Smederjevska Palanka Radoslav Milojic and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does the MP, Marian Risticevic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to begin with a single correction. Muamer Zukorlic is no longer a mufti, but I am not a doctor or a master of European science, so I have a chance to explain it to the doctor. We're not so lucky that the priests of the SPC, who deal with politics, take off their coats. So, Sava Janjic continues to serve DS politics and does not take off the mantle. So, to deny it, Muamer Zukorlic is not a mufti, and I remember him as a mufti when DS, in which Milojic too, entrenched him as the main man of the University that was then founded in Novi Pazar, and I repeat, I supported it at the time and I think that regardless of international differences, people have the right to education. As far as the big farmer is concerned, she should ask her colleague, as one pool is issued, since thermal water is issued, etc. But I also have to deny it because DS also gave land to investors. She doesn't know that, she's suffering from the village. It is easier to suffer after the village, but in the village especially when you see the village only when local elections, when you have to attack polling stations in Popinci, stand on a crazy rock and watch from there, of course against the law, oversee elections, stand in front of polling stations and roughly interfere with the election process. That's why I forgive her for not knowing that for 30 years, the DS issued land even the subject of restitution. He can't do that now. Now, this land that was the subject of the restitution, which you have issued for 30 to 50 euros per hectare per year, for 30 years with an annual rent of 30 to 50 euros, cannot be returned to previous owners. So, you're a historical injustice, a communist who was committed against peasants legalized by giving to your people, you can also ask Zivkovic, for 30 years of investment consent without any need and demand that someone work on that land. That's not the case anymore. Today, investors must, above all, have land that is purely state-owned, which is not the subject of restitution, have to deal with processing and have to hire someone that was not the case with the Democratic Party. You've sold 300,000 acres of land in 50 years, and that's how much the state gets for a rent in just one year.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44485	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 145 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2016. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 143 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2016. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for five peoples, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 143 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasa Vučković, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for four peoples, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 145 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasa Vučković, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable period, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for three peoples, no one, abstentioned, was ever voted by the 146 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does Parliamentwoman Maja Vidinovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the amendments to the Law on Electronic Media that we filed almost a year and a half ago, is something that MPs of the excessive DS and opposition point to over the past six years, which is that we have a media chaos and that one of the main culprits for non-compliance with the law so-called. REM which I am absolutely sure that the citizens of Serbia at some point thought that there was no real thing, that some word to which we are calling for their inconclusive but then it was the regulatory body that did not respond to the hate speech, which did not respond to the drawing of the target, which did not respond to discrimination the worst possible, which did not respond to Satanism and the criminalisation of political opponents, reported in character and work and feathered one of the REM members in the middle of the pre-election silence. That's when Serbian citizens realized that the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media actually exists. You know, when you don't have institutions and when one government, or SNS, has been working for five years to collapse institutions, then one party, or one man, takes over. Presidents of Serbia who, at some point, remembers that he has the right to inform the public that it was wrong for the public service in the central daily to be represented in a contribution which, according to his assessment, should not have been represented. Serbia's president who says he will send party control into public service by being dissatisfied with how the regulators functioned, whether one of his party champions was represented in a good way. When you don't have REM and REM shut up, it's something that's terrible not knowing the Prime Minister, Mrs. Brnabic, but brutal abuse. It's not a national frequency that doesn't have to be respected, the national frequency is public well-being and it doesn't matter whether the national frequency user is a state owner or a private television. Private television in this case is not a private television that respects the law, but a private television that has become a weapon in the hands of one man, and REM that is silent and does not react to the chugging, to the drawing of targets, is in the most brutal way becoming the regulator of the intention and interest of a man, not the regulator of public interest. When such a thing happens, then the basic thing is that we propose amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, which will disable the space for abuses, which will predict absolutely in the members that we have proposed, which will predict absolutely for such a thing cannot happen because when there is no democracy, when there is no respect for the law, when there is no freedom of expression, there is no chance of this becoming a democratic society.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44487	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, voted for – for – 10 MPs, against – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a Decision on the Education of the Survey Committee to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that took place before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does Parliamentwoman Maja Vidinovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44488	Thank you, Vice President. To remind all fellow MPs I am absolutely certain of will, with my vote for, to put on the agenda, show the willingness of this committee to be a country in which something happened on 31 May 2017. I will remind all citizens of Serbia who, unfortunately, know very well that this is the day when President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic had his second inauguration. It is the day in downtown Belgrade, when a brutal attack on journalists, journalists and photographers who did their job occurred outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, came to report on the second inauguration of President Aleksandar Vukic. I suggested that a poll committee be formed with very precise tasks as the Rules of Procedure, which is the polling committee that should establish several very important things, which is whether private security was employed during the inauguration in front of the National Assembly held on 31 May 2017. Is it, if it was a private security detail, who hired this private security detail, under whose orders unknown persons were physically attacked by journalists, journalists and photojournalists who were doing their job on the day of the inauguration of President Aleksandr Vukic? Also, the task of this survey committee is to determine why the present police officers in civilians and uniforms did not respond to the apparent violence that occurred in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which the whole world and the citizens of Serbia had the opportunity to see, not because it was a bad message in the world, but because Serbia should not be a country that places on Serbian citizens the message that it is absolutely allowed to attack people who are doing their jobs, where it is absolutely allowed to physically attack journalists, journalists and photojournalists who are doing their job. If the MPs and the majority who are in power at this time do not vote for the formation of a polling committee, which will determine whether it was actually a private militia, whether it was an order given to members of the internal affairs, to the police, to organise such a thing and under b) – do not prevent the apparent violence that was being held, the MPs will give a clear message that this is a country where laws do not apply, that this is a country in which the force is valid and that it is an absolutely legitimate target represented by people who are doing their job, which is journalists, journalists and photographers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44489	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for eight, and 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2017. Does the People's Parliament, Maja Vidinovic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about amending the Budgetary System Act, we're actually talking about something that I've been proposing here in the Assembly for three years, and that's to put an end to so-called. ‘temporary’ so-called ‘temporary’. "No" employment. When I say so-called. "temporary", it clearly indicates that it has been extending for years, here for six years, year after year, so there is absolutely no saying that it is a temporary measure, but it is a more permanent measure and more dangerous than that of the very clear intention of the SNS and these authorities that all citizens of Serbia are subject to a ban on employment, only not for SNS members and activists. When I say so-called. "no" employment, citizens are witnesses of the fact that it does not apply to everyone, that it does not apply to a young scientist, an artist, who cannot be employed, who has worked fairly, who has chosen to engage in a profession that is naturally directed to the state. She can't work in the private sector. You know, there are occupations, and that's something I believe that many colleagues are something they can't understand, some people in this country have studied fairly, some people in this country have gained a fair degree, some people in this country, despite everything that's going on, they've decided to work in this country and they're working in those professions, they're professions, they're areas of science, art, culture, justice, they're people who work in the judiciary, they're people who work in the prosecutor's office, they're naturally directed to work in areas that kind of rely on the state. The state says – for you, dear citizens, the ban" of employment, which does not apply for example to Miso Vacic, a convicted extreme right-wing man, who, for example, does not apply to Tomislav Nikolic, the former president, who invents some kind of office that no one here can repeat. This does not apply to hundreds and thousands of SNS party activists, but that ban on employment that leaves chaos in systems, which strikes on human rights, you know, when you don't have in the prosecution, several times I've talked about it, and the people of the D.A., people in all these areas keep in touch with the MP group DS, people in education, in art, in science, when you leave an insufficient number of publishers or dactylographers in the D.A., because justice is a result of citizens suffering because they can't exercise one of their rights within what is appropriate and which is normal. So, this so-called. ‘temporary’, so-called ‘temporary’. "The ban on employment is not temporary, it is a permanent measure of the SNS, to prevent anyone who is not a member of the SNS from working in areas directed at the state. There's a so-called. "Discretional Law", some commission of the Government, which discreetly decides on the so-called "Discretional Law". "exclusives", which you will not believe, all of which apply either to those local self-governments or to those areas in which the SNS is competent and in charge, and in that sense after three years and enough arguments for you and this time I call for a vote – for, we talk about this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44491	Thank you, colleague Vidinović. I'm putting this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44492	I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all relevant facts and circumstances that preceded and led to a decision on the extradition of the Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin Cevdet Ayaza, as well as the determination of the responsibility of all the authorities in this case. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44493	Thank you, Madam President. I suggested forming a polling committee in the name of what you just read, because I deeply believe that Serbia must not be a country where human rights are less important than the private agreements of the president of the two states. In this case, the President of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Turkey. This must be a country where human rights are unimpeached. Citizens are witnesses and why this case is important, not only because of one dramatic fate of a Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin, but because of a message that this case conveys to all our citizens. This case says that the state of Serbia, i.e. the competent authorities, institutions, and in a proposal for the establishment of a polling committee, which I will not read or repeat now, is a decadently stated over 14 items that are all laws, which are all international agreements, which are all international conventions that are violated by the fact that the Republic of Serbia, by breaking all of them and breaking its own laws, allowed itself to go beyond any procedure, beyond the law, or the opposite of the law, and only because of what is established in the indication of private agreement, human rights are sealed and human rights are change, i.e. to be bribed in something that should not be. Against all these conventions that have been taxed in the proposal for the establishment of this survey committee, with a clear task to determine exactly which institution of the Republic of Serbia, which people, the responsible people in these institutions have violated, and why has Turkey's citizen been threatened, who has been coerced by the European Court of Human Rights, past all procedures, passed by all laws, unfortunately handed over to the Republic of Turkey?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44494	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44495	I will propose today four laws that should contribute, of course, with your understanding that this should be discussed, to contribute to a fairer social and fairer regional distribution in Serbia. We are witnessing that 31 workers have been killed in work since the beginning of the year to date, according to accessible data in Serbia. A good deal of them didn't have labor contracts, which means employers were paying their profits without taxes or contributions. For this reason, I have already presented back several sessions to you a proposal for a law on variable corporate income tax that should make irresponsible and undersensitive owners of businesses for the way their workers live to make such rules to pay for more average earnings. Here's what this proposal means. So the corporate tax rate is variable and is 10 to 30%, and in correlation with the average net earnings per employee according to statistical territorial units. Thus, a legal person who paid an average profit of between 80 per cent and 150 per cent of the average of the region in which he operates retains a tax rate of 15% to the next accounting period. So, all those who pay the average profit from 80 to 150% of the average in that statistical region have the same rate that is current at the moment, but this proposal implies both the stimulating and the detimulative, detimulative measure that the irresponsible owners of the companies paying below 80% of the average would be obliged to have their profit tax rate at 30%, and for all those who pay more than 150% of the average in the statistical region, that rate would be 10%. I am sure that this measure, in one part, would motivate the owners of enterprises that are mostly black-paying their workers from the paid-out, to increase their average salaries, because it will pay them, too, because the profit tax rate will fall, and in such a way we will, at least in part, avoid the fact that workers do not receive our salaries with contributions, with taxes paid, without a clear and slightly longer vision for the future, because in this way we are obviously losing precious lives in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44496	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44497	Therefore, this law is also proposed with the aim of a fairer social distribution and a fairer regional distribution. I think it is important for all of us to face data on the average salary in Serbia, which are talking about the average consumer basket and which are talking about the minimum consumer basket, because poverty is present in Serbia, to a double the EU average. This shows data and analyses available on the government site, which say that 7.3% of Serbia's population is below the poverty line, and that poverty line is marked with 11,000, 11,500 income per family head. For a four-member family with children under the age of 14, the poverty line is 31,500 dinars. So when we know that the minimum consumer basket is 37,000, so the minimum consumer basket is 37,000, and the poverty line is 31,500, so 5,500 is missing to the minimum consumer basket. In these 31%, there are about 7.5%, which means about 500,000 people, and about 25%, according to all statistics, people in Serbia, so a quarter of the population is in great challenge and close to the poverty line. The percentage is even worse when it comes to the risk of poverty and the risk of social exclusion, which is 38.7%. In this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, I propose that we include income from dividends in incomes subject to annual income tax. So far, these dividend revenues, therefore, are capital revenues, and we know that the capital tax is significantly lower than the taxes and contributions paid to work. We show as a society what a relationship to capital is and what a relationship to invested work is. We want to bring this border closer somewhere, and this proposal implies that dividend income is included precisely in the accounting of annual income tax for citizens, because we believe that at least in some part we will establish this fairer relationship and the growing differences between the extremely rich and extremely poor in Serbia will decrease from day to day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44498	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44499	So this is also a law that aims, once again I say, a fairer and more social distribution, but also a fairer regional distribution. I think we should supplement this data we talked about about, about the poverty threshold in Serbia. Once again, a quarter of Serbia's population is at risk of poverty, and about 35% is that percentage for those who are at risk of poverty, but also social exclusion. This bill implies a solution for persons to submit data, therefore, an informative tax application twice during the year, and on 15 January and 30 June, in Article 58, paragraph 2, which reads: "A special organisational part of the tax administration is formed by means of a sublegal act, with specially trained personnel, who in co-operation with other state authorities, MUP, Catastro, NBS, Customs Administration, Central Charter Register of Values, APR, Treasury Administration, Money Laundering Authority, would process submitted applications as a check by applicants who have not submitted their application. The basic idea is to make more efficient comparisons of the assets of the natural persons with their reported incomes. It is clear that this proposal would be in line with the harmonisation of tax laws, with the property origin law. I think that each of us here hears constant thinking and suggestions and at least a declarative willingness to adopt a law on the origin of property, and I think this would be one of the first steps that can contribute to the adoption of this law and to the future application of this law. I have cited these examples and I think it is necessary and fair to start from ourselves, about how much taxes we pay and how many taxes we have reported in our working century and how much property we have on our own. The average MP who entered this assembly hall in 1992 and who was an MP by 2012, so for 20 years, with an average salary, could be calculated, certainly less than 500 euros, but to count from that 500 euros of average salary in those 20 years, in 240 months he could earn here 120,000 euros in 20 years. When you compare the property of many, which is registered on their behalf, and those incomes on which they paid the tax, it is clear that it is difficult to justify that kind of property. I think it is necessary to come from the president of the state, from the ministers in the government, and that is the way and application in the fastest possible way and to prepare for the adoption and application of the law on the origin of the property.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44500	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 141 people's messenger for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44501	So this is also one of the laws that was intended, first of all, to establish a fairer regional distribution. We know that many of our local self-governments have great challenges with their budgets, and with their functioning of the most basic communal challenges, communal systems. And this is one of the simplest ways to overcome, at least in some part, that difference. I will remind you that the units of local self-government belong to taxes achieved on its territory, and here the proposal, therefore, is from profit tax, and here is the proposal that local self-governments belong to taxes outside of its territory, in a way that would be defined in point 1 of sub-point 6, which would be changed and said - 74% of the income tax paid to employees, except for employees in the public sector, so we now have this solution, and the addition is a change – including in general the state and public enterprises, as well as 100% of the share of the income tax paid by employees in the public sector, including the general state and public enterprises of the same and proportional share of the population in local self-government in the general population of the Republic of Serbia according to the last census. So, to simplify, the goal is first to preserve demographic potential in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, because it is not fair, because the majority of the public enterprises that provide services to all Serbian citizens have their seats in the largest centres in Belgrade, above all, in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and based on income tax that they receive in the MUP, and in the government, and in the Elektroprivred Serbia, and in all state authorities where income is the largest, taxes belong to these local self-governments, while people who finance these public systems from within Serbia have no income from that part of the tax. So this is the simplest possible irregular distribution of income tax and we could easily remove it if we adopt this bill. That's why I'm calling you, as responsible people from your cities, you can contribute to this because that would help with some 300 million euros to be collected from these revenues, from these taxes. If they were to divide into seven million inhabitants, that would mean 43 euros per year per capita in each municipality. For a municipality of 10,000 inhabitants, that would mean 430,000... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44502	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ćirić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the NBS Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44503	The draft law amending the NBS Act is simplest. So the proposal is - Article 86b is deleted. I call upon you to hear first what this article 86b reads. We talked about that article and gave the same amendment when we passed the NBS Act, so I'll read it to you. I think it is important to remember all of us and the public of Serbia. Article 86b provides that the NBS, Governor, Vice-Governors, Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees shall not be liable for any damage incurred in the conduct of the NBS operations unless it is demonstrated that they have not acted in good faith. So there is no responsibility for what they would do and what they would do as damages that would result from doing business, unless it is proved that they were not acting in good faith. For the damages referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the staff of that position shall not be liable even after the termination of the working relationship in the NBS or the termination of the validity of the function. The National Bank of Serbia will bear the costs of representing the person referred to in Article 1 in court and administrative proceedings in connection with the transactions under this position. So I think we can agree that this is a really illogical member, that the only mention of NBS officials have that kind of exemption from any responsibility, and we have just made it possible with our vote to adopt such a law with such a member. If we've chosen these people and given them some kind of responsibility and jurisdiction, I guess it's logical that in every system you expect the responsibility of these same people for what they make as decisions and for what the effects of their work are. In such an institution that cares and needs to work on price stability, which takes care of public debt, which runs monetary and fiscal policy, we give up any demand for their responsibility in advance. I think it lowers their readiness, but also their caution and responsibility to perform their own function. That's when we came up with this election, we almost had a choice of vice governors, because why did we choose them at all if we didn't expect any responsibility from them? We gave them a mandate here, and on the other hand in the NBS Act in Article 86b, we gave up any responsibility they had. That is why it is necessary to delete this member and I call on you to do so by voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44504	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former SO President Inzija Goran Jesic and the unintended spending of funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44505	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the previous speaker on this subject has mentioned poverty. Malversations in Indjia, and throughout Serbia, at the time of the DS rule led us to have two peoples in Serbia – hungry and naked and naked, to have two types of workers – those who got fired and those who would get fired if they stayed in power. He was talking about poverty. I have two contracts here. Interestingly, DS members of the torn ducks rushed towards housing areas, slightly larger, in Belgrade and Novi Sad. I have two apartments here. One is in Vienna, acquired by Goran Jesic of DS, 160 m2. Now he didn't report it in time, and there's a procedure in Old Paz for not reporting property. Of course, their party's court did not find that there was corruption and that someone with 800 euros could buy an apartment worth over half a million euros, someone who occupied a large area in Vienna. Aggression to Vienna was carried out and a significant area was occupied in the centre of Vienna. This second apartment in Novi Sad of 130 m2, as well as Mr. Ciric, they recognise nothing below 100 square meters, such as love for fellow citizens, Nis, Indjia, and then by running in Belgrade, two – three months of wages, and thus from torn shoes, from torn jeans with salaries of 500, 800 euros comes to significant surfaces. What surprised me was that the previous speaker said nothing and didn't try to apologize, say, to an insult from the site, which was addressed to me by these words, DS. He says, "You are not a political opponent, you are a bastard. No one to apologize. No one to apologize to RTS. Says their president, this newest one, this pendant from the president, and I don't even know who it is when the president, it's often changing, now Gilas changes this while you say cookies, he says -- RTS, who's transferring this session, your right to have a public house. It may be a whorehouse for you there, but let me remind you, no one from the SNS, not even from my People's Peasants' Party has been hired there, but it's where your men, the wives of your coalition partners work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44506	Thank you. I put this proposal to the vote, MP Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 11 against – one with abstentions. I'm realizing it wasn't accepted. National MP Vesna Marjanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Electronic Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on textbooks. He's not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: no one with abstentions is in favour of - nine, against - none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in connection with the liquidation procedure "Such Insurance". There's no MP here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: no one with abstentions is in favour of - nine, against - none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. He's not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: no one with abstentions is in favour of - six, against - none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one with abstentions is in favour of – seven against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one with abstentions is in favour of–five, against—no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Capital. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44507	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens, this is a proposal that has been going on for more than a year and a half. We proposed it as a parliamentary club and I personally as part of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club for the simple reason it's time that the Belgrade citizens know about the elections they're voting for, and that's what our intention was before and before the Belgrade elections, so we have choices that citizens know about when they're scheduled and who their candidate is for mayor. We had a situation a few days ago that one of the leaders in Belgrade, Goran Vesic, said that Belgrade's Belgrade citizens voted in favour of certain works that the city of Belgrade is doing both in downtown Belgrade and in border areas, but in any case less in each municipality in Belgrade. Work that the citizens of Belgrade disagree with, works that disturb the lives of citizens of Belgrade. Only one of them, of these works, is happening in the very centre of Belgrade, in the street of Toplica's Wreath, which began a few days ago. It is very important that Belgrade's citizens know who is responsible for the works paid for their money from the Belgrade budget, 60 million dinars are defined for a street not more than 50m long, for a park that is not bigger than this home where the National Assembly session, this hall, is held. On the other hand, it's very strange because these works don't even involve building permits, they don't even have a project, and they don't even have the location conditions necessary for the project. So obviously the accidental spending of funds, without any permission, where, of course, the inspection doesn't come out for days at the citizens' request to actually see what it's about. It's just amazing that the plumbing and sewerage haven't been able to figure out exactly where the malfunction is in an unearthed street that's only 50 yards away. So if money is laundered in this way, if money is drawn in this way, citizens must know who is responsible for it. It is their money, the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the city of Belgrade, which are now filled with citizens, among other things, from that part of Belgrade. The whole of Belgrade is turning into a concrete record that is senselessly funded by their money, and citizens don't know who's to blame.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44508	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 10, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44509	We have referred on several occasions to the poor condition of Serbian soldiers. When we talk about defence power, if already irresponsible ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all the defence minister, make irresponsible statements, when the president raises the battle for the sake of marketing reasons, when hammering with weapons and damage are exclusively the citizens of Serbia living in KIM, Serbian citizens living in southern Serbia, what is very embarrassing is that in 2018 you have soldiers of the Yugoslav Army who do not have an apartment, whose incomes are not enough to feed their family, you have soldiers who absolutely have no equipment, boots, uniforms and all that is necessary for the day-to-day performance of their duties. A Serbian soldier who is not satisfied with his property situation, who sees what is happening around him, where the directors have tens of thousands of euros in salary, and the water is related to public enterprises in Serbia when he sees how much money is spent on projects that do not exist, which have absolutely no building license, projects that have never received a license, projects that do not exist and spending money from budgets filled with Serbian citizens, and then with an average salary absolutely cannot school children, nor to provide them with a secure future, how can we talk about any defence strategy, how we can talk about legal acts that are not being used, which are not implemented, how can we talk about this being a safe country and spend hundreds of millions of euros on military equipment, on planes, and the soldier Serbia is not satisfied with its breakfast when it comes to his life. It's a thing you don't care about because you only take care of marketing reasons, your popularity, your demagogy, the headlines in your tabloids. Serbia's soldier today represents Serbia's defence power, and it is at the lowest possible level in the last six years because soldiers are above all not satisfied with the way this government treats them and their lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44510	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the top authorities on the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and the fact of responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44511	Thank you. Here, it's been a few years since that famous collapse in Savamala happened. To this day, the world's media is interested in this topic, but not the MPs of the majority in this House are not interested. We've been looking for the Survey board so the world doesn't look at us like we're some crazy country where someone can crash someone's private property overnight, or someone's public property, and absolutely no one's responsible for it. So, if the phantoms were to tear down Savala, then we need to know who these people are, by name and last name, and why isn't the D.A.'s office doing anything to put them behind bars? We need to find out whose badgers and whose equipment, which construction companies, close to this government, took part in and borrowed the machines in the destruction of Savala? We need to know exactly what the only witness they had tied up, tortured, harassed during the destruction of Savamala, who, just a few days later, died in a very unexplained situation in the hospital at VMA? This is what is embarrassing to the citizens of Serbia, and above all for those of you who absolutely have no intention of showing no moment of attention to someone's lost life, to someone's illegal behavior, to the robbery that happened in Savala. The phantoms that remain the symbol of a Belgrade-run SNS government will remain forever a symbol of SNS, primarily, which has a majority in Belgrade and which has a majority in this House. If any of you have the courage, he has the spine to stand up and protect the constitutional order in this country, the law in this country, then let him vote for this proposal. If you're not cowards, press the bell button and say you're behind it, that it's a crime, that it's a mob venture and that you're ashamed of it. Otherwise, your names and last names, all of you looking at phones, because you don't have the courage to look into the face of whoever's talking to you, the names of all of you will forever be recorded as one majority who participated in that bandit enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44512	I would like to put the motion to the vote and ask the MP not to be offended when explaining his proposal. I conclude the vote: for -10, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the point of the Proposal of the Criminal Code Supplement Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44513	Thank you. This law, and I would like to stress that, proposed by former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, a law that spoke about it, and a proposal that speaks of taking away their legally acquired weapons from registered bullies in the family. And we've proposed this bill together. First of all, Dragan Sutanovac, but since he is not a national MP, I explain the proposal on behalf of the Parliament club. So whoever's a registered bully in the family, who's being seduced by the police as a bully, this law requires the law to take away his weapon if he has one. That legally acquired weapon that a bully has a license to. We've sent the bill for reasons why police register a bully, don't take away his weapon, he goes back to his house and kills his wife, kills his children, commits a crime, and then it's absolutely irrelevant why we didn't respond in time, which is why we couldn't save one life by putting this law on the agenda. We've given up on this bill, if you adopt it and put it on the agenda, we're absolutely discussing it. We wanted this proposal, President of the Assembly, to suggest to you, if you adopt it, that it be a joint proposal that we will adopt all together. Because we could have saved dozens and dozens of lives, if we had passed this law in time. It's not too late now, and it's never too late, as long as we can save at least one life. From the day we proposed this law, to this day, over 40 lives have been lost because the police had no basis for taking away legally acquired weapons, registered offenders in the family. If she had something to take away the weapon, we would have saved dozens of lives. I'm asking you to save every life that will lose someone's husband, some bully, and that's very easy if we pass this bill and adopt it today and put it on the agenda. Otherwise, you will be responsible for any future case in which someone's wife loses her life and some woman dies because this law is not adopted, or put on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44514	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for -eight against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44515	Thank you. We had a situation a few days ago where one of the ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia said he wanted the United Arab Emirates to be a strategic partner, a special strategic partner of Serbia. I guess he didn't know how much the United Arab Emirates are a special partner of Serbia, since they have the status of authorised states, or privileged nations. So, it is not normal for Serbia and the United Arab Emirates to have an agreement that will eventually allow a country agricultural in Vojvodina to be, under special laws and under special conditions, handed over in the hands of so-called. Arab investors who neither process the country nor have a relationship with it, and who are in some way taken away by the paori and other peasants who have been processing the country and ultimately lived by it. It is not normal for this special relationship to exist and this special contract between Serbia and the UAE because it happened that, under special conditions, we handed over the entire property of downtown Belgrade, one good part of Belgrade's centre to Arab investor Alabama and the company Eagle Hills, which had the founding capital of 100 dinars. We handed over a billion euros in land value without a single dinar of compensation. We gave them public funding paid by Serbian citizens every unborn baby in Serbia is already due because billions and billions are scheduled to be spent to provide the special Arab friend with conditions for him to have his domes, his apartments, his business premises, in the end we have handed over the facilities for public purposes, the Bristol Hotel, the Railway Station and many other facilities. I ask you what Serbia and what does Serbian citizens have to do with it? What does every child born in Serbia have to do with it? There's absolutely nothing. They only have debts and expenses. Every newborn baby in Serbia is obliged to pay over 2,500 euros to the Arab investor because you have come up with that someone has to get special status just because he is a friend of the president of the Republic of Serbia. It is simply not normal and we are pushing this proposal to break up this special relationship and free Serbia's citizens from debt slavery.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44516	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find the proposal not accepted. MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots - Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44517	Thank you. This proposal is popularly referred to as "the law on youth employment". It is a bill that has been in the Assembly for two years now, a bill that in some way enables every young man, no matter where he comes from, whether his parents are officials in this country or not, whether his parents are party-oriented or not, whether they have a relationship or not, gives him an equal chance and an opportunity to get to work. It is not normal for children of officials in this country to have an advantage in employment without children of other Serbian citizens having the same option. So this is a bill that allows every equal chance of getting to work. If we know that more than 85,000 citizens move out of this country annually, then imagine just how many young people are at their best, who have life energy, who have their own knowledge, who will use some other country, some other country, some other part of the world, and that's not Serbia. It is very important that regardless of nationality in Serbia, citizens go away mass. The Hungarians, as well as the Albanians, also everyone else in this country, as well as the citizens of Serbian nationality, are going with the belly of bread, which are primarily young people, young people who know something, young people who are modern, young people who are capable of living, young people who are eager to invest their energy in something valuable, to make this country more modern and better than it is. You obviously don't hear from them, because they go from one year to the next to another, and you're just not going to let them have equal opportunities. We had pension savings for these four years, and you said a few tens of thousands of people were employed. I'm asking you, were the grandchildren and grandchildren of these pensioners employed, or were they just hiring grandchildren and grandchildren, sons and daughters, SNS officials? It is something that this country will never be able to forgive you, the young people you drive out of Serbia in this way and drive out of this country, because they are not at your will and because you do not trust them. You can't lie to them, you can't fool them, they're Serbia's future, and we're going to adopt this law first in some subsequent assembly in parliament when we're the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44518	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44519	This is part two of the Youth Employment Act. He works in the Netherlands in practice, which has a similar way of encouraging the employment of the youngest. Therefore, the progressive rate of contribution is foreseen for those under 15 years, until the end of the study, or 29 and 30 years. So, the younger you get, the cheaper you get for the company where you apply for the job. On the other hand, this law proposes and in some way obliges young people to complete their education as soon as possible, not to delay their studies, not to delay their practices, not to delay their secondary education. In this way we put on a fast train those who are worthy and reward that they are regular students, that they are the best students, and this way we stimulate them to finish their education as soon as possible and to get a degree, so that they can be more competitive on the labour market tomorrow. This law is valid for up to 30 years, from 30 years of age, it's a mandatory social security rate as well as for everyone else. It is a matter of positive discrimination when it comes to young people because young people are the future. If they leave Serbia, Serbia will become a country of old people. So this law is designed to keep young people in the country and to keep Serbia in this country. What's also important is that whoever hires a young man on the one hand has a kind of relief, and the state, in a way, when he pays contributions to compulsory social security, that worker is cheaper. On the other hand, the state predicted in this bill that every young man who has a desire to learn and work, that he had a desire besides education to acquire and practice, that the state would provide him with one allowance, by providing him with the costs of transport and a warm meal, and that is something that would really stimulate a young man to have no costs unless he wanted to go to a practice besides studying or secondary education. We think this is a law that has proved itself in practice in the Netherlands. It costs 50m euros. I think it is 50m euros to keep young people in Serbia very little, given what money this country and this government are willing to spend, above all, on the devastating projects we have had the opportunity to listen to.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44520	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I'm realizing it wasn't accepted. Proposed by Ambassador Balša Bozovic, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44521	We are against "Berograda on Water" because we believe it is the uglyness of Belgrade and discontinuity with the history of Belgrade, with its visual identity, with its culture, with its history. Why are we against “Biograda on Water”? Because it's dirty, because it's suspicious, because it's corrupt, because it doesn't belong to it, because it changes the symbols of this city, because architecturally it doesn't belong to the Sava amphitheater area, because it provides profit to a foreign investor who is your friend and does not provide any benefit to the citizens of Belgrade. We are against the project because every child born in Serbia, over 2,000 euros should be paid under the Water Construction Treaty, out of the budget to allocate funds to the investor who founded the company in Serbia, Eagle Hills, with a capital of 100 dinars. With 100 dinars, you can't buy coffee in Serbia. Now, it took so long to invest to get billions of euros available from Serbia and the City of Belgrade. A hundred dinars, Igl Hills company with founding capital, and on the other hand donated land worth a billion euros. A private investor has 100 dinars of cost, and Serbia gives him a railway station, a Bristol hotel and gives him the opportunity to build a million and 700 thousand squares. It really doesn't exist anywhere. It's so funny that it's absolutely not worth even spending a word on. Just because each of you is being made "Tosha" so that you don't want to look the truth in the eye doesn't mean that one day someone won't be responsible for this dirty job. This money laundering and the money laundering that happens on "Belgrade on Water" that you have opened, you have shared the keys, and no one is still living there, is a special laugh and it says, not the whole region, but the whole of Europe is dealing with it. Research journalism, which is at a low level of development in Serbia, can be seen as EU research journalism that writes about this project with such a mockery and cynicism that, dear friends, you will remain remembered as the people who voted for the project.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44522	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. No proposal accepted. MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Serbia's Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44523	This is another law that speaks of a regulation that is not harmonised when it comes to the Army of the Republic of Serbia. We advocated building a house from the ground up, not from the roof, reforming soldiers' meals, reforming their daily lives, providing them with a place to live, providing them with conditions for normal functioning of their family, providing them with basic equipment, boots and uniforms, both summer and winter, and only after that to enter what is said to be the purchase of heavy weapons. We're on our way back. We bought some planes that the minister claims are four plus, which never existed in Serbia, and on the other hand we paid so much that these same planes were twice as cheap in Ukraine, which sells the same moments, with the same possibility of getting equipment and being a four plus generation. Which is why Serbia threw so much money at some bins that it had to renovate, reparate and repair, it was not clear to anyone. We bought planes as the only country in the region that weren't in their own condition, in flight mode. That's, I mean a unique example in the history of a country's defence strategy that she bought planes that didn't come by landing at the airport, but came by road traffic, by being transported in parts. Now that's what's a shame when we talk about the situation in the Serbian Army and that's what's embarrassing when we talk about how and how the Serbian Army faces problems today. Yours is that, of course, like everything you've done in the past six years, it's yours to distribute funds the way you think you should, but we'll always point out that it's not in line with the public interest and that it's not in line with the treatment of children abroad. It's not in line with the interests of families who don't have a way to cure their children. They don't have the money and the government doesn't pay enough money in that fund, but on the other hand, they buy planes that can't fly, so after that, we have to give that much money to those planes to make them fly. How can I tell you, it's a replacement thesis, it's a demagogue in which we don't participate, but in any case, we say again, each of the contracts will be combed on the first day you fall into power and someone will have to answer for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44524	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of suspected SNS transactions, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the 2014 parliamentary elections and the 2017 presidential elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44525	We suggested forming a survey board to know how you finance yourself, to know where those two meet in the pub, so I whisper in each other's ear, here I'm going to pay 800 euros, to see who these people are and where they got the money from. Who gave them the cash to pay, since by law, the only possible way to finance is that. But you are hiding what the Anti-Corruption Agency considers to be out of line with the law. You're hiding lists of people, number one, who were paying 40, 50, 100,000 dinars, and on the other hand, don't tell me where you got that cash you gave those people, thousands of them, to pay the SNS. So you're dealing with politics as a party in Serbia's SNS, which hides its sources of funding, which hides the way it acquires money, which is then paid to the SNS account. That's what your president says. That's not what I'm saying. So, I've proposed a survey committee to help Alexander Vukic find a way in which you're corrupting money for your campaign, because it's just amazing how you do it, for example. The D.A. didn't think to check or ask anyone where you got the boss as someone who received the social aid of 50,000 dinars to pay SNS in front of the election? What did you sell, what money was paid and where it came from, what its origins were, etc. And so on? That's absolutely none of your business, but it's something that should be of interest to any state that cares about the rule of law. I think if the president of the Republic of Serbia cares about the rule of law, and that respect for the law, he should first resolve corruption within the SNS. How it's possible they're all the same. A few thousand, tens of thousands of dollars each. So many citizens agreed to pay the same amount. So it's totally funny to talk about funding SNS because it's obviously black money that you don't know how to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44526	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 13, against – no one with abstentions – has, and I realize that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts of the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles, the stamp “Skoda” by the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44527	This is a short question, with a direct contract, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to buy 700 car stamps of "Small" used by the MUP, so, no tender, under number one. Number two, I don't know if you remember but we have a Fiat factory in Serbia, the 500L that was and was still in crisis. There were talks whether to extend the contract, whether to extend the contract, whether to close the drives, whether to close the drives. In addition to the Fiat factory, which in Kragujevac and vehicles 500L MUP buys 700 vehicles from a company that imports damage from another country in Serbia. Do you think that's normal? Do you think that's okay? I know you think it's funny and trust me on the word and I think it's funny. So, the car "Fiat 500L" uses police and police administrations from many cities around Europe, mostly in Italy. How good the car "Fiat 500L" is to them, what it is to be cheaper than "Skoda", and yet you chose "Skodu" with a direct contract from the Government without a tender, without public procurement. You paid citizens' money for something that's secret, how many cars they might have won by that direct contract, what someone did on that direct contract. It's funny, Mr. Arsic. I know it's funny. It's funny to me too, believe me. In addition to the car factory in Serbia, you 700 cars buy the stamps "Skoda", patriotically there's nothing. It wasn't expected otherwise from you. So this is about a proposal to form a survey board, to eventually come to the truth or perhaps to some future occasion draw attention to one of your ministers not to buy cars by direct contract, past the tender, stamps that are not produced in Serbia. Since you are great nationalists, great patriots, I expected you to buy "Fiat", but that is obviously not the case with you. That's funny, Mr. Arsic. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44528	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. It finds that no proposal has been accepted. MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities regarding the reshuffle of the Slavic Square and the construction of the music fountain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44529	That's right, it's an important topic for the Belgrade people, Mr. President. That is why we have proposed a survey board to see how it is possible that on a site called, I don't know, "Alibaba" the same fountain or similar cost about 10 or 15 times cheaper than the one you built on Slavi Square. Why is the entire square falling apart around that fountain, which is almost over? Which firm got the job, and why wasn't it done, for example, surveillance? How can we have a music editor at the fountain in Slavia? It was said that, I think, Leontina, I don't know exactly what it's called, an estraced artist, who for some amount, is 100-150 thousand dinars, she or the one who's headed the music commission of that fountain. So he's getting that kind of money, and they're being released there, really how can I tell you, some songs that or some music that absolutely doesn't match anything. So, you know how many roads it takes to fix in Serbia, how many streets to pave the way, how many in Belgrade do not have asphalt, many in Serbia, and you two million euros give to one fountain. So many streets in the wider Belgrade area do not have the first, let alone the second asphalt. They don't even have the first asphalt, and two million euros was spent on a fountain that couldn't be approached for the reconstruction of Slavi Square, which was supposed to have some underground passages to make it safer for pedestrians and traffic, so you gave up both underground passages and safety for pedestrians and faster traffic flows, and for that money you built only a fountain. We wanted to ask who installed that fountain and how much? And then you throw yourself on that survey board, not like this, to act brave, because you don't have the courage to go out to the survey board on the line. Your cowardice and corruption that you protect and defend is obvious and for this reason I know you will not vote for this polling committee, but the citizens of Belgrade have the right to know what their money is spent on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44530	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts of the way the Serbian Defence Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vulin, acquired a 107-square apartment in Belgrade worth 244 thousand 620 euros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44531	A few days ago, I meet a man on the street and he asks me, "Why are we forgetting the things and the affairs that have been going on in these six years?" This is evidence and these proposals by the board of inquiry, that we haven't forgotten one thing. This is a famous affair called "Aunt" which is a question of whether it exists somewhere in Canada, which has been flown 30 times by plane from Canada to Serbia and in cash borrowed money from Defence Minister Alexander Vulin, who thus bought an apartment of seven square meters from that money. So there are teachers, there are recognised experts who have worked for Serbia for 20 or 30 years, and they don't have an apartment and can't get it overnight. There are state-of-the-art architects, artists, those who won international recognitions and awards, and they don't have their own apartments, but Minister Vulin makes an apartment overnight by loaning him that money. So this is proof that we haven't forgotten one thing, not a single affair you've made, not a single theft that's more than obvious, not a single corruption that's more than obvious, and this is just a list of things and these survey boards serve as a reminder to you that you know when you lie down at night to sleep that the list exists and that every one of you who has made any corrupt affair or any money he has skimped, is not a threat to me, but a promise, this is a promise that every thing will be resolved to the end. From "Beograda na Voda", Savale, from various "aunts", from various "stins" and "surnjaj", from various assets acquired by officials over the past six years, and simply the Prosecutor's Office shuts up and the police turn their heads like it's not happening. These are the lists of officials and ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia, who will be on the agenda at that time. I know it's funny to you right now, but the last one laughing is the cutest one laughing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44532	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the project of investment investment investment in agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of Belgrade's top authorities in connection with the signing of an agreement on the construction of a burner in Vinca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44533	I thank the president. So, when it comes to the Vinca dump, it happened that disproportionate investment by a private investor would make a lot more money than anyone could have imagined, and Belgrade's citizens would have a higher price for waste disposal services, which are otherwise disastrous and waste disposal in Belgrade and will pay out of their pocket. There's a contracted salary for a private investor. This means that a private investor cannot fail because if it earns in one year less than is foreseen by the contract, it makes up for the budget of the city of Belgrade. Why did the city authorities sign a contract like this? That is a question I believe for the committee of inquiry and for this House. The huge investment the city is financing results in a private investor making money, not the city of Belgrade. In a way, Belgrade's budget makes business easier for a private investor when it comes to a burner in Vinca. All this just means is that the prices and accounts of citizens will be increased for the waste disposal item, and that will hit Belgrade's citizens very quickly. This is just one example that we won't forget and that will eventually welcome the light of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44534	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to establish facts relating to human organs' trade in Kosovo and Metohija, so-called It's a yellow house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44535	This is a very serious issue for the state of Serbia and for every government. This is a serious question for both the ruling majority and the opposition – are we going to go over and do you go over this, through the crime that he committed, which Ramush Haradinaj, as president of the Kosovo government, was actually blamed for the crimes he committed against the innocent population, the highest number of Serbian nationality? It's also the Roma and the Gorans. Are we going to let the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office have all the irrefutable evidence without the Hague office being contacted yet and not handing over all the data collected by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office? Why is the Government of the Republic of Serbia silent about this? Why does the government of the Republic of Serbia remain silent on suspicion that Hashim Thaci was involved in war crimes? Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia suffer and not protect those whose paintings we have had the opportunity to see before the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who are missing, who have never been found, whose organs have been removed, who have been murdered in a manly and brutal manner? The authorities of the Republic of Serbia were traded during 1999 and the war in Kosovo. They were kidnapped, tortured, brutally murdered, and eventually taken from their organs, traded on the black market for organs in the world. The Commission, Dika Martia, who found that there was irrefutable evidence, launched an investigation, but was soon covered up. But why keep the Republic of Serbia silent? Why silence the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Why does the Serbian Progressive Party keep silent when it comes to the citizens of Serbia whose organs have been taken away? Why? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44536	Ambassador, I turned off your microphone because you were yelling. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. Ambassador Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the IMK Kruševa factory "14. October’. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human casualties and material and immaterial flood damage in Serbia's territory in 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the privatisation of the PKK. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of the US Embassy and the Federal Republic of Germany, which was attacked on 21 February 2008, during the protest "Kosovo is Serbia", as well as responsibility, both former and current holders of the highest state functions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44537	So we are interested in why the Prosecutor's Office did not launch a comprehensive investigation and invited those politicians who had direct responsibility for the burning of embassies during the "Kosovo is Serbia" protest in Belgrade, who were hoarding various extreme groups, extreme-nationalist, had designed targets, had objects that were designed to burn and tear down, and the police who had done their job and the investigative procedure to the end had never been supported by the prosecution, which had absolutely all the data, all the evidence, and had never processed those speakers at the myths, who were hoarding on the worst crimes, those most extreme, who had been well-organised and prepared days before that? So it's not just someone's property. It is two sides of the country that are not so small and not so powerless, such as America and Germany, which are crucial to Serbia's future, which are crucial when it comes to partnership with Serbia, and on the other hand, Serbia has done nothing to make their property and that everything that has happened until the end. I think this is important because of Serbia's civilized face in front of the world. The government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to end this once and for all, to see who is and in what way and under what circumstances has affected the burning, where one life has been lost, where all of Belgrade has been broken and huge material damage has been done. If I just remind you of a kind of persecution that even the citizens of Roma nationality experienced that evening, and even some media, even some journalists, there is an impression that Serbia absolutely doesn't care whether it has a clean European face or forever will be silent about such things that have uglyd its face in front of the whole world. This is a very important thing. It's about the dignity of our people. For this reason, I believe that this committee is more than necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44538	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in connection with the construction of a Chinese company's "Mei Ta" factory in Baric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44539	SNS investments in the past six years have threatened to make a Chinese menu out of Serbia. So, 100,000 euros were costs for one job for track workers receiving 200, 250 euros in salary. With that salary, no one can survive absolutely today in Serbia, nor am I a man and a worker as such, let alone his family. Given what the Obrenovac municipality has provided, given what the city of Belgrade has provided and the investments of the Republic of Serbia, more than 100,000 euros have been paid for a slave job. When I said that Chinese investors chose Serbia because workers in Serbia became cheaper than those in China and when I declared those jobs slave and investors from China slavers, you apologized to the ambassador of China and said you didn't think so, as one opposition MP said. I said it. That's what I said and now I said it and then. I stand behind these words because I believe that this is how slave labor is being created in Serbia, that Serbia is a country that has good workers, who don't deserve to work on the tape for 10 hours in diapers and that they can't go to the toilet, who are being harassed, who are being held in machinery, who in warm meals, right in this "Mei ta", have food in which worms, byte food eaten by worms. So it's a picture and an opportunity that today's labour rights in Serbia and for this reason this shame you're declaring development from Serbia is really threatening to create a Chinese cafeteria, and that's what's a big problem for the future of this country. We disagree with this concept of development. We said it was about education, the rule of law, respect for the Constitution and the law, that these are the preconditions for creating a favourable economic environment, that we best keep in the country so that the average salary is 800 euros, not to brag about jobs where the salary is 200 euros, and that is a fundamental concept that is completely different from you. You chose to pressure people in Serbia. We choose a good education for the youngest and to keep the youngest and the best in the country in order to use their energy and their knowledge in this and not in another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44540	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the Treaty on the Water Project "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44541	As for the "Belgrade on Water" Treaty signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the power to do so was then granted by Minister Mihajlovic, the authority of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who was suddenly ill, and failed to come to the signing of the Treaty, was already authorised by Mrs Mihajlovic. At that time, I claimed that Aleksandar Vukic, as a good lawyer, understood what it was about when it came to the Treaty on "Belgrade on Water", and he did not sign it, but sent Mrs. Mihajlovic to sign it, because very soon after that, Minister Mihajlovic personally received from me a lawsuit that ended in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, which concerned the alleged crime of corruption in that Treaty. It's about the next one. The company that had the founding capital of 100 dinars, which has not invested a single euro, has 68% of the total stake in "Belgrade on Water", and Serbia, or the Serbian government with billions of euros, which will only pay citizens from its wallet, has 32% of the share in the joint venture "Belgrade on Water". This is what the government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded, not only disproportionately, but is talking about the scale of corruption and bad business. The public defender's office had to react when it comes to this Treaty. This Treaty must be declared invalid because it does not comply with the law of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, your business partner predicted arbitration in Vienna, which is responsible for the termination of this Treaty, and in some ways this Treaty is very difficult to break. If the state of Serbia were to break such a harmful contract in itself, it would have to pay a few billion euros to Alabaque, who is your party president's personal friend. So this Treaty will be annulled on the first day of coming to power. That's what I promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44542	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and the unintended spending of funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44543	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if it hurt, the previous speaker would cry out of pain, I think he'd end up in the hospital. In fact, the other day on their Twitter account, they wrote to me, and the monkeys fell. Here, you can see that. My parents, who are patriarchal, taught me that God created humans. He was probably taught by his parents that he became a monkey. I can't agree with that. He accused us of everything and everything. A lawyer from the Bonafides cafe ended up there with Vodnelicka in a combined college, he said, worst of all, that we supported terrorists who were extracting Serb organs. His authority, in which his father was in, is very close to Prime Minister Djindjic, his father, the famous Zeka Bozovic, is very close to Prime Minister Djindjic, I say, released 2,108 Albanian terrorists in 21.3.2001, Dreničko Group, Djakovic Group. The Mazreka brothers released the last, the 22nd year of 2002. They, with his father's involvement, released Albanian terrorists who were pulling out their organs to Serbs, and now they're trying to wash their responsibility and talk to us. Next, he charged us with money laundering here. Global financial integrity says 51 billion dollars have been exported from Serbia by 2010. That 51 billion also includes Mr. Sutanovac or grab the money. He gave 272 thousand euros for the plot, 300,000 were found on the account, a house of 157 square meters, apartment 329 square meters. There's Balsha's apartment next door. Someone's got an aunt, someone's got Mia. Check my claim. In the same building where Shule and Balsha have an apartment, and it's headed to a certain Mia. Next, a collection of watches, a collection of pictures, etc. It's the money laundering of the 51 billion. That's how they made the poor girl. That's how they left the soldiers without breakfast. So they left them without guns, guns, etc. Today, when you enter, and today, the President, Janko, is in their organization, you do not know whether you have entered politics or crime. It's an alliance of thieves, frauds and litigators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-02-0.u44544	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the contract between the Republic of Serbia and the company Al RAWAFED INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities for falsely showing the state of the aflatoxin level in milk and corn, which caused major material and immaterial damage in the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract between the Serbian government and ETIHAD AIRWAYS on the establishment of an air traffic undertaking " AIR SERBIA". I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption within Jelizara Smederevo in 2015, with a loss of around 150m euros annually. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Dear Members, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to sit down, insert their cards and allow us to continue our work. I ask MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units to check the quorum to keep working. I ask the MPs, especially Members of the ruling majority, because there are much less on the screen than there are in the hall to insert your identification cards so that I can determine the quorum for continuing work. That's what I'm asking you to do pretty quickly. I'm setting a 10-minute break. Please invite your colleagues to come to the O.R. to continue our work. Thank you.
