ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36487	Thank you. After last week's EU summit, despite somewhat encouraging diplomatic formulations, it became clear that the European perspective of the entire region, including Serbia, is not so close. Although the Prime Minister has expressed satisfaction that the Western Balkans are in the focus of the EU, the very atmosphere at the Summit, as well as the final Conference on the Media of European Leaders, President of the European Council Donald Tusk and European Commission President Jean Claude Junker, has also shown that this is not the case. Even at the conference, much more than the Western Balkans talked about burning world issues, such as US withdrawal from a nuclear deal with Iran or a violation of free trade, also by the United States. Given that following this summit, i.e. after clear statements by the leaders of the two most important EU states, Germany and France, since the UK is at the exit door, as well as from the text of the final declaration, it is clear that Kosovo is not a major obstacle to the EU, as reiterated by President Vukic yesterday in Baku, I am asking the question of the Prime Ministers who will take concrete measures and within which deadlines to take the government to remove numerous shortcomings in the area of rule of law, the fight against corruption, freedom of the media and in other areas highlighted by European officials or perhaps the government, after less than a year, will give up the strategic priority, EU memberships that were contained at the very beginning of the government's programme, as they have already begun to report some prominent European media? Instead of focusing on such policies, President Brnabic continued to stress in Sofia the digitalisation process with the most significant role of the IT sector, as a kind of universal drug for all our problems, stressing that this is the key to development. It, however, ignores the conditions in which digitisation is introduced and that the rapid development of the domestic IT industry is not caused by a favourable environment, but rather by the low cost of our labour force on the world's IT market and the possibility that such labour force is engaged indirectly by work from Serbia. The first and main obstacle to the further development of the IT sector is the continued trend of leaving the country by domestic IT experts. This calls for a new tax policy towards the IT sector, which would lead to maximum relief for the education, production, development, the hardware sector and the electronic communications sector, and my question is prime minister – does the government intend to apply such policies? I would also like to refer the next question to the Prime Minister. I would have referred him to the finance minister, but we don't have a minister right now and the prime minister has taken over his duties. Is there any systemic solution for pensions that the government intends to introduce, given the fact that the IMF asked for it? Although information has appeared in the media that the IMF has proposed to abolish the Law on the temporary regulation of the way in which pensions are paid, knowing the way this organisation works, I doubt it is explicitly requested, because that organisation is only interested in final results, which is primarily in the stability of public finances, and that stability could be seriously violated if the court in Strasbourg ruled in favour of damaged pensioners. In this case, Serbia is estimated to have to pay about 200m euros for each year of the law's validity, and besides, to this country's IMF suggestion, the president of Serbia and the Prime Minister have acted in a contrary way. The president said he is always in favour of protecting the poorest, and that the adoption of this IMF proposal would dramatically increase pensions for people whose amount is more than 50,000 dinars. Of course, the question arises – that the rights of the poorest pensioners would be compromised, which would raise pensions to better-standing pensioners, unless the goal is to give up on the lowest instincts. In addition, the Retirement Act discriminates against citizens who made higher contributions during their working hours and therefore had higher pensions than averages. This sends the wrong message to all those who make the greatest contribution to the development of society. At the same time as the president, the prime minister said that the abolition of the law would mean that 80% of pensioners would reduce pensions. I ask the Prime Minister – how did such a conclusion occur, or based on what calculations? Does this mean that he thinks that the abolishing of the Pensions Act would have been abolished and the increases made in the meantime? If so, then she is not aware that pensions have been increased under the Budgetary System Act, whose abolition no one is seeking, nor the IMF. It also concerns the prime minister's statement that the pensions had previously been coordinated two years, and were in fact in line twice a year with the rate of consumer prices and GDP growth. At the very least, it is disturbing if the Prime Minister does not know the details of one of the key economic policies, especially given that in two out of three cases, she was a member of the government herself. The following two questions are rephrase questions I asked on April 24th, which I did not get an answer to. In this regard, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, I mentioned that last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or the embassy in Madrid, used unauthorizedly the multi-rewarded documentary film "Miroslav's Gospel", on the occasion of the State Day celebration. To make things worse, despite the numerous evidence, the Ministry denied the act, which is why the state will. We citizens probably have to pay huge damages to the author. So I ask Minister Dacic - what does he intend to do about drastic copyright violations in this case, as well as preventing such cases in the future which are particularly negatively viewed in the Western countries, and thus continuing to violate our country's reputation by inappropriate behaviour of the DKP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36488	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36489	Thank you. My first question, relatively briefly, I only have two questions, because I don't think we should be overrun in the hope that we will get answers, goes to the address of the Ministry of Defence and Minister Vulin and concerns what Mr Stefanovic here in parliament yesterday in response to my question that there has been a flight of drones over Serbia's territory in the second half of March of this year, but still the rights, official address, a measuring address for the topic and the answer to that question is still the Ministry of Defence. So my question is whether it was officially from the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Vulin, whether it was overrun by drones across Serbia's territory, when, how much, were they on a recon mission or maybe they were carrying and, if there were knowledge, weapons. Is there a possibility that there was a fact, since we know that it often acts against terrorists or for the purposes of the country by these drones, was it just a field recording, was it directed to some demarch and to whom, do we know whose aircraft they were, were they taken any measures or reactions by the competent ministry? I don't mind the ministers pleading on other issues, from regional policy to foreign policy, Euro-integration, but this is the main activity of that portfolio, and I therefore refer my question to that particular address. The second question goes to the address of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it concerns one, I would say, painful subject, which is why this is my previous question and this case or incident with these drones and the absence of our reaction to it is just one illustration. I asked the Foreign Ministry several times if there was co-ordination with the Spanish government in connection with this Sofia summit. Obviously, it wasn't, because if we hadn't done it the way we did, Spain was actually boycotting. But my question now for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is, I say, even more delicately and as to whether there is any coordination in relation to the country's foreign policy with the President of the Republic, given that the views and interviews are publicly expressed by the President of the Republic, which has been acting on a continuous basis, sounds like they are inconsistencies with what is officially declared government policy and the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, who have repeatedly been here in this House. So is it still a platform of the Serbian state, not to recognise Kosovo's independence and that there are no concessions on the road or is the platform changed in the meantime? If it's changed, then this is the place to talk about it. I want to say that a series of statements, whether they are tactfully given or not, and I don't know with which goal with the highest address in the Republic of Serbia, suggest a willingness not only to compromises and concessions, but rather anything that would represent abandoning and derogating the position of the Serbian state in terms of Kosovo and Metohija. How else do you understand the statements that everyone has already ruined Kosovo, that it is not his fault, or the President, that Prince Lazar lost the Battle of Kosovo, mentioning 1999, 2004, 2008 and all other dates, which cannot be understood differently except as some kind of preparation of the terrain or washing hands or preparing the terrain for a complete and final capitulation on this matter? Everything can be discussed, there are no taboo topics, but this is where these talks should be conducted, not read between the lines or in interviews of the President of the Republic. We know what the actual relations of the forces are, but formally speaking, the foreign policy of this country is run by the Government and the Foreign Ministry, of course, with the coordination of the President of the Republic. So my question is, I repeat it and I end it, does that coordination exist or does there have to be some kind of reflection? I say, we know who the hair, who the water is carrying, we know whose last and main word it is, but formally the president proposes a prime minister for the Prime Minister, this assembly elects the Government, including the foreign minister and prime minister. In that sense, I would like to say, regardless of what we know about the fact that power relations are, we hear from the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister that things are and whether there is a disproportion in the foreign policy run by the Government and the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36490	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36491	Thank you, Chairman. My first question is for Mr. Bratislava Gasic, director of the BIA. Why is the BIA delaying the security clearance of Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection and not issuing a security certificate? Data from criminal proceedings bearing the designation "super-confidential", including those against top state officials, are currently out of the reach of the Commissioner for Public Information, and thus the public concerned. Will this case depend solely on the BIA, which for far-unknown reasons drags away with security checks on Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic, preventing him from obtaining a security certificate? The absence of certificates could result in the inability of the trustee to act in an undefined number of information from different criminal proceedings. Infringement of the law, and especially without reason the delay of the security clearance procedure and its zero reasoned prolonging, has resulted in the fact that the Trustee, since the certificate which he had in the meantime expired, was left without the certification necessary for him to access some of the documents, i.e. to perform some of the most prominent tasks in his jurisdiction. For all of this, I repeat my question to the Director of BIA, Mr. Gasic, to offer us an explanation and a concrete reason for delaying the issue of a security certificate to Mr. Sabic, who is needed for further uninterrupted work. I would like to refer my second question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, and to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. The question I'm going to ask is about 1,700,000 people in our country who have ended their working lives and have gained a fair pension right. More than three and a half years have passed since the law on seizing salaries and pensions. With this law, the current government has reduced pensions of more than 25,000 dinars, which has kidnapped about 700,000 pensioners, 40% of them, on average 10% of pensions and has taken as much from doctors, nurses, teachers and police officers. In three and a half years, as far as this law is concerned, the government has taken more than 1,000 euros from every pensioner with a pension of 40,000 dinars and 45,000 dinar pensioners with more than 1,500 euros. These are all pensioners whose pensions are less than the average salary in Serbia. The Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia, among other things, requires the full liquidation of this law, or its withdrawal, because it is said to be only legally sustainable, and anything else proposed is not valid and is legally discriminatory. Retiring pensions is also immoral and unconstitutional because pensions are property and acquired rights. It's been a long time since the first day of the fight against the withdrawal of pensions. Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic and President Aleksandar Vukic delivered an opinion last week that there would be a reduction in pensions by 80% of the population if the Law on Temporary Pension Reduction was abolished. We're asking them a question to explain and what, in their opinion, it's a distraction to get their pensions back to the way they were. Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia also send a bill to the National Assembly to end the alleged temporary reduction of salaries and pensions, promised by the Government to last until 2017? As we can see, six months is absolutely nothing. Each of Serbia's 1,700,000 pensioners for the last three and a half years gave the government about 45,000 dinars. But since pensions are not reduced to those who receive less than 25,000 dinars per month, all the burdens have actually been borne by those with the highest pensions, which means each of them has been taken away from a far larger amount. We remind you that pensions are not a social category, pensions have been acquired through decades of work and that property is inalienable. If the state wants to help pensioners with small incomes, let it do so through social aid or through universal social protection, which we inter alia advocate. You can't give each other the right by abolishing their rights. Except that this is classic discrimination, otherwise prohibited by Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, this is also pure populism and we finally need to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36492	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36493	Thank you, Chairman. I need to inform the Minister of Health that he's also watering like he's in Slavia. In fact, Batajnica is a suburban settlement where about 48,000 people live and belongs to the municipality of Zemun. And alone, according to the number of inhabitants she has, she could be a municipality, however, she is not. In such a village where 48,000 Batajnics live, according to the 2011 list, there is no home of health, there is no hospital, there is only a health station. Since I've known about myself, since I was born in Batajnica, there's a septic tank in front of the health station. So, my mom took me hand-to-hand across the improvised skeletons to the pediatrics at the health station. Today my generation is also taking their children by hand to the pediatrician. Less or less all parties present today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were in power in the municipality of Zemun and there is no representative of the municipality that has not promised at some point that this municipal and infrastructure problem will be resolved. To this day, guess, that problem hasn't been solved. Of all things, there were only empty promises, painting and photography in front of the health station, that was also in the last campaign for the Belgrade elections, but unfortunately this problem was not solved. Given that we have been in the 2016 exhibition since then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic heard that one billion euros have disappeared from the health budget, I ask you – is there any forecast that any funding from the health budget will be allocated in some future period to solve not only the municipal problem in front of the health station, but also to expand the number of services for the Batajnics? A question for the interior minister, a while ago, I was contacted by a rather young mother of four, who lives in Pogorevec and who has problems with domestic violence. In fact, it faces a situation where local political station representatives ignore or accept health for almost her demands to help her. Her former partner recently got out of prison and has a restraining order, not only for her, but for her children. The last memo was sent to the police station just a few days ago, May 18th, when she was in oral contact with police officers and received information that they couldn't help her, because he didn't do anything concrete. I'm going to ask the Ministry of Interior to examine this situation in detail. Through congregation services, I will send information about a lady I don't want to publicly present her data for the simple reason it's her personal security, to examine this situation in detail, and to get police officers who ignore these demands sanctioned, and to take the lady and her children into extra protection. The following question is also referred to by the Minister of Health. I'm sure he's been sent from the media for the case of Dr. Daniela Simic, who also works at the Home of Health at Despotovac. I'll remind you that she recently went public with the data that she lost her right to specialization, that she was first placed 60 points higher than she had second-placed yet ended up on that list and that the place was assigned to the niece of a senior PUPS official, more specifically the vice president of the PUPS instead. Today, she suffers torture and demeaning by the director of the health home, who among other things is not qualified to perform this duty. I will remind you only briefly of the Director of the House of Health in the Municipality of Palilula, who also lacks the necessary qualifications, or at least has never proven to the public and has never shown to the public when and where he graduated from medical school and specialization, and in the same way he treats the employees of the House of Health in Palilula. I ask the Minister of Health to refer the committee to the Home of Health Despotovac, in order to revise Dr Daniela Simic's case and to re-rank all staff entitled to specialization in an adequate manner? If it turns out that said health director Dejan Milosevic has made a conscious failure, we will ask not to say we will require the health minister to replace him. The only reason they're leaving the country is because their places are taking the worst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36494	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36495	I thank the chairman. I ask the question of Prime Minister Ani Brnabic and Culture and Information Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic, and about shutting down the signal of the newly-saded K9 television, as the show of techniques and connections on May 18th turned off the television signal due to an alleged debt. On 17 April this year, the prime minister said at a press conference on the European Commission's report that it is not clear to her and that she does not understand exactly what the problems in Serbia concerning freedom of the media are. I ask now, is it now perhaps a little clearer when a lady strikes hunger, Mrs. Maja Pavlovic from K9 TV from Novi Sad? Is it more clear to her what economic pressures on the media are exposed to all those media who are not in the service of the ruling regime and who are professionally, responsibly and objectively reporting to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? We have a longer number of years of back retribution against the media that are not in the service of government and regime, so you have examples of control in the southern news, the crow newspaper, here now and K9, but the key problem is the way of funding and non-transparent financing these media that are close to the regime. Well, so you have an example of King's Television that received nine million dinars from the royal budget, and the other two local TV stations received 100,000 dinars. Those other two aren't in the service of the regime. I ask the question of the Minister and the Prime Minister about how to conduct the competition and how to spend money on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the media, which is clearly shared by this government in similar and inappropriate ways. What I am talking about is very clear, you can read in the European Commission's report, so it says that no progress has been made in freedom of expression, that Serbia's legal framework must ensure greater transparency of ownership and media financing. Then, that political and economic influence on the media is further a cause for concern. Serbian authorities should ensure that informal pressure on editorial policy is not made through the distribution of advertising funds including from public companies, as well as through project co-financing from local budgets. So the whole state, ministries, public enterprises, cities and municipalities in Serbia are funding media that are in the service of the regime to expand their propaganda, not to objectively and professionally inform Serbian citizens as is foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I also have to mention the TV Tristenik, also like the King's, another example, where last year from the local budget of 11 million defined for the media of one television, nine million others have either received nothing or received some ridiculous amounts, because that TV is also in the function of spreading propaganda of the regime, but not in the interest of the citizens who pay it. Therefore, both television and all other media are paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I therefore ask the question of the Minister of Culture and Information and ask for a written reply and a report on all the competitions implemented in 2017 who received and how much amounts, according to which criteria, who was rejected, which media were rejected and did not receive money and why for which reasons and by which criteria they did not get, and these others did. Also asked by Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, how much funds and what are public enterprises, state agencies and ministries paid for advertising in the media in 2017? In what media and on which TV were the ministries, state agencies and public enterprises advertised during 2017? The third question is also asked by Minister Vukosavljevic to provide me with information on spending in Belgrade, especially how many people with disabilities have been trained in the "24 Hours" newspaper and how many have been employed and how many have founded their media since they have cited this as a basic criterion for the allocation of funds and have received five million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36496	Thank you. The word has a national envoy, Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36497	I thank the chairman. The first question I refer to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, will he keep his promise to reporters now in Sofia, at the summit, that he will lead the Parade of Pride, or a gay parade in September of Serbia? How is it possible that holding a parade is not prohibited, and a parenting protest is forbidden? Do you plan to legalize gay marriages in Serbia as is already happening in the surrounding countries? So, are you planning on allowing them to adopt children? Because in that case, you really don't need to be intimidated by the growing fear of your parents from taking away your children or by the number and attendance of the forbidden gathering? The second question is for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when will you withdraw from the assembly procedure the devastating law on missing babies addressed to the Assembly on March 8th? For nothing, but I repeat, no one received parents or came before them last week when parents who suspect their babies were stolen at birth protested in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia in Germany. They have repeatedly come here to the House of the People's Assembly, have always been accepted by several parliamentary groups and heard. The third question is for ministers of education, health and work, in which way you will resolve the inadequate application of the repressive law on mandatory vaccination that now prohibits the entry of children into the education system unless they are vaccinated and introduces repressive measures against parents and fines. Do parents have the right to understand that they have the origin and composition of a vaccine that is injected with their children? Did the health minister keep his promise that in this high house, he would preserve Torlak and that vaccines for our children would be produced in Serbia? The next question is for Director of the Centre for Social Work in Nis. Which is why for more than five years, you can't solve a violent father who's had another child in the meantime. So we have two mothers and two children, and one violent father, who seems to be protected from workers at the Social Work Center, because he boasts he has a relationship and threatens custody, while workers at the Social Work Center threaten these mothers with foster care? Have you learned that damaged mothers have brought their story to the public and will be broadcast tomorrow at the national frequency on "Life of Stories". Is that the only way parents can solve their problems, pressure from the public? A question for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. On political council member Dvera Vladimir Dimitrijevic, you have filed a lawsuit for promoting exclusively the family model of society, which is called hate speech. Do you think a free man in Serbia has the right to state his position if no one offends anyone? Do you intend to introduce a verbal delinquent in Serbia and totalitarian ideology of homosexualism? As for the Serbian Movement of Dvora and the president of the political council, Vladimir Dimitrijevic, to whom the lawsuit was served, we are honored that he is being persecuted because he defends the family as the highest value. In addition to him, because of their public and clear views, they came upon the coup of local LGBT lobbies, following the Metropolitan Amphilochy and Prof. Dr. Milan Brdar, site "Serbia info", Dr. Misa Đurkovic, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ristivojevic, minister without portfolio in the Serbian government Nenad Popovic. Thus, Vladimir Dimitrijevic, through the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, was sued by the Association "Knowing", which claims to have compromised gender equality, marginalized the trans-ordinaries and promoted the family as a single value. We ask the question, is this reintroducing a verbal delinquent as a criminal offence and is there a ban on freedom of speech being imposed in this country on a small door? We strongly oppose such lawsuits and pressures, since Professor Vladimir Dimitrijevic has merely expressed his position which does not contain a hate speech against anyone and really has no basis for them to be prosecuted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36498	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Grozdan Banac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions for Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, the governor of the NBS, and I want to ask her who has control over the banks, who oversees their work, how do banks operate? Is it possible that banks don't protect their committees, not to give any notices, to deceive their citizens, by sending them messages that they have the means at their disposal, and when they come to the citizens, they don't have it at their disposal and they won't even talk afterwards. I ask most nicely to be answered by an emergency, who controls whether there is real control on the ground, not only of the reports, but of who controls who has the authority to inform me, therefore, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic? A second question, a question for the executor. It's a question for Mrs. Nela Kuburovic. Since she's the minister of justice, I'm interested in whether these judicial perpetrators are state officials in the state and if they consider all the authorities to have in this world? Not just in this country. Is it possible that court enforcers do not make deposits that are required under the law, and do not apply the law, legal regulations that are required to apply, but are already working according to their intent, taking from citizens and not taking any bills? I am asking Mrs Nelu Kuburovic as justice minister, the justice minister, to carry out with the competent authorities a real insight on the ground, as well as Mrs National Governor of the NBS. Is it possible that the perpetrators, without a court deposit which they are required under the law, do not deliver to the creditors or to confirm the court, who are obliged to deliver for each executive trustee? They just don't deliver those certificates. They work in their own way, blocking people's entire amount, wherever they have insight, in which way they have insight, and that's abuse of data, because banks provide them with information about citizens who own it. I ask best that you inform me of this, and how much can a messenger of the people as a tribunal, and who has sworn an oath, can he give suggestions and objections to such organs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36500	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36501	I refer to the parliamentary question, President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandr Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. When the Republic of Serbia will suspend negotiations with the EU on Serbia's EU accession, since we are clearly aware that the only condition Serbia should meet on that path is recognition and unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence. This should be enough to make it clear to us that the EU only wants Serbia as a humiliated person who has given up the works of its territory and should make it clear that this is the end of these negotiations with the EU that have been going on in various formats for 18 years. It is illusory to even discuss this possibility, that a country should give up the works of its territory for membership in any international organisation, especially as it is an organisation, i.e. The EU in the decade stage and the question is how long it will last in the future. Never in history has one country given up its territory for some one-time political benefit, nor has it exchanged its territory and given its own as its own, according to the message of the Holy Archaeological Assembly of the SPC, and we no longer need to fool ourselves. The frog all Hanovi, McAllisters and Junkers who come to Belgrade and praise our reforms and advances in the opening of chapters, but these are just bureaucrats that no one has ever chosen, which will neither wait until 2020 nor any other date set by the pro-forms when Serbia could join the EU. We need to be clear from what French President Makron said, which is -- the EU will no longer expand, the EU will only reform from the inside. The accession is no longer discussed at a recent summit in Sofia, only talking about neighbourly relations between the Western Balkans and the EU region. The bureaucrats report and say, as European Parliament Committee President Eduard Kukan did yesterday for co-operation with Serbia, that it is not just what Makron is saying is EU policy and Kukanova is. Kukan is probably more reliable to tell us something about our accession than he is the second and most powerful EU leader, the French president. The second question is, since it took six months for the foreign ministry to answer the issue of October last year, concerning the granting of diplomatic status to the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis, it is obvious that the ministry is not in co-ordination with the rest of the government, because it took them six months to conclude that they are not competent to give diplomatic status and refer to the interior ministry. In light of these improvements in the relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation and the warm and hearty reception of the Serbian president during the inauguration of Vladimir Putin and the victory parade, I do not understand why it is a problem to assign diplomatic status to people who helped us during the worst disasters, such as during the floods, and thus at least show respect and gratitude? If NATO troops can already be freed from all duties and duties and use diplomatic immunity in the Republic of Serbia, then why would that be a problem for the Russians? Recently, the province government rejected the initiative, and the province's assembly, the SRS, on the establishment of such a single centre on the territory of Vojvodina, for which the SRS has collected more than 30,000 signatures, and we hear announcements that such a centre will form on the territory of Vojvodina in co-operation with Croats, i.e. with Croatia. Then why is that necessary, and the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre is excess?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36502	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36503	Dear Vice President, dear fellow MPs, I would like to ask the questions of the Minister in charge of tourism, Mr Rasim Ljajic. The issues concern the development of Banja tourism in Serbia and the perspective of our spas. Serbia is known as a country with a thousand sources of health, i.e. with thousands of sources of medicinal, thermo-mineral waters, which are the basis for the development of Banja tourism. According to the number of medicinal sources, we belong to Europe's richest countries, and we have the only geyser in the continental part of Europe in the Sierra Ban. Over 50 of our spas, starting from Vrnjaka, which is the most developed Banjsko center and achieves about half a million nights a year, through Sokobanja, Bukovička, Prolom, Selters, Junaković, Sierinska, Vruci, Gornja Trepče, Vrdnika, Kanjiže, Vranjska, Bujanovska, Ribarska, Lukovska, Banja Ždrelo near Petrova na Mlava, which, to my satisfaction, is a positive example of development and others, is a great development for Serbia's tourism. Three of our spas have the hottest mineral waters in Europe. It is Vranjska, Lukovska and Sierranska, whose warm waters, unfortunately, flow into the rivers. In 2017, over 500,000 tourists, who made about two million and 200,000 overnight stays, were living in Serbia's spas, of which more than 90% of domestic tourists. The number of tourists, especially domestic ones, is growing in the spas, which is the result of the introduction of a voucher gift, but the fact is that we can expect much more from the spa, which is that with our equipment and facilities attracts even more foreign tourists. That's why you have to invest a lot more in them. Examples of other continental countries such as Hungary or the Czech Republic, which were affirmed through one or only a few spas that are world-renowned today, such as Karl's Vara in the Czech Republic, should be followed. Our spas must be even better equipped in infrastructure and content. Some have become barely visible during the last twenty years since traditionally good destinations. The accommodation facilities are failing, so they can't attract tourists. Therefore, new investments and new ideas are needed to valorise extremely valuable natural potentials in spas and mineral waters and mineral mud and gases. Serbia is a transit country and tourism of cities, above all Belgrade, is a priority, but we believe that this much natural wealth that lies in the spas must not be neglected. On the contrary, Serbia as a continental tourist destination should pay even more attention to Banjska, i.e. health and recreational tourism, which is highly sought on the European tourism market, if not priority. With the development of agriculture, especially organic production, with the improvement of the healthy environment and natural beauty that we have, tourism and certainly Banish tourism will have a significant place in Serbia's development. The tourism development strategy envisions further development of health, i.e. Banja tourism. So about the further fate of our health tourism, I would like to ask Minister Ljajic what is the Ministry planning to do on the re-affirmation of the Banja tours and the development of the spa? Are there plans to invest in what banana centers? Are there interested domestic and foreign investors to invest in our spas, for which spas are interested and what kind of investment? Whether the resolution ministry plans some development measures that can improve Banish tourism in Serbia and much more and more fully exploit the extremely valuable natural potential that our spas have.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36504	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question is about Miroslav Aleksic. Namely, I ask the Ministry of Agriculture did Miroslav Aleksic, while president of the municipality of Trstenik, in his knowledge of the planned route of the Moravski Corridor, buy on the planned route agricultural land, plant multi-annual plants so that now, when the Moravski Corridor is built, he could collect cheaply bought land? The second question, Miroslav Aleksic, also at Vuk Jeremic's, saw that it was nice to have a wife who edits the journal and information programs. Is it true that his wife works on TV Tristenik and that TV Tristenik, regardless of his nepotism, because she is employed in his time, regardless of the partocrat, because he is a member of his party, regardless of the affair related to the Trust for Human Resources, where Dinkic received 55 million dinars, spent on cutting grass in February of the month, is it true that she works on Trstenik TV and is it true that he was employed at the time when he was president of the municipality, since he, in terms of the media, says that the media should be free, and that is living proof that political activists, and even the spouses of highly-ranked politicians are working, or are employed at the time of their ruling in the media, such as he, such as Natasa Jeremic, i.e.e. Olja Kovacevic, whose wife is the opposition party leader? Furthermore, I ask the question is it true, the government of the Republic of Serbia, that during the government of the DS, the DS planned together with Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic to complete what NATO's pact began? To be precise, I ask is it true that DS, or Sasa Dragin, a faithful friend of Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, imported from August 10th to September 23rd 2009, only to be precise, 2,982,504 kilograms of mineral fertilizer with increased concentrations of radioactive matter? Is it true that DS, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and the team have changed a rule that has been valid for less than a month, just enough that the company, which belonged to probably Victoria Group, which is suspected to be the creation of DS and Fertil, would have imported that fertilizer in that period while the rule was valid, which was put out of force? Is it also true that the Ministry of Agriculture led by Sas Dragin, a friend of Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas and Boris Tadic, is it true that this rule was not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, but in the Ministry of Environmental Protection? That's what the damage was done. I also ask the Ministry of Agriculture, where is mineral manure used with a higher dose of radioactivity allowed in our country, where and on what surfaces is it used, in what quantities, to know that we are in the future monitoring the degree of radioactivity on that land, since the amount of 3,000 tonnes, i.e. three million kilograms, and how significant? In the end, I ask the Ministry of State Administration, what it means to do about the real epidemics made by various movements, in fact the citizens' associations, where political parties lose every sense, and in such a way Dragan Djilas, Jankovic, Borko Stefanovic, Veseinovic, are thus hiding political parties behind the so-called so-called. "the movement of the Association of Citizens", and thus are not subject to the control of the Anti-Corruption Agency, what are all the political parties to which we belong, subject? And finally, that's how they avoid foreign donations. Political parties cannot receive donations from abroad. Citizens' associations do so, they can, and they do, and Vuk Jeremic, a descendant, is the best example, because he has received millions of dollars on his association organisation, which he has used in an election campaign without any control of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Those are the questions I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36506	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36507	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last time I asked a question about the abuse of the official position of Dragan Gilas and the fantastic contract to rent a business space in the land settlement of Altina, worth 360 million dinars. Now I wanted to ask the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice about the things we heard during the debate at the previous session, when we discussed a set of patriotic laws, about defence, about the military, about arms and equipment, we heard from discussions of MPs of amazing and fantastic things. We heard that during the post-NATO aggression period, which lasted from 24 March to 10 June and after NATO arrived, this DOS may not have been wrong, the DOS's arrival in 2000, that the state's attitude towards Serbia's army has deteriorated sharply. Instead of stopping our army, our soldiers and officers who stood by 78 days of senseless bombing, who managed to stop the ground offensive in the Koshar and Paštrak area, instead of celebrating them as heroes, DOS government at that time began to disperse command personnel and disarm Serbia's Army. It took 12 years for Alexander Vucic to come to the post of defence minister, and for the SNS to take responsibility for the country's leadership, to stop the Serbian Army's devastion and turn the trend in a different direction and move towards a return of respect and strength to the military. Our army from the conflict with the NATO Pact has come out undefeated. She came out of conflict by signing a military-technical agreement. The army, as the minister himself said, was defeated only when he surrendered and disarmed. Our army came out of Kosovo almost intact. In 78 days, NATO managed to destroy 13 tanks, six armored transporters and 27 artillery weapons. According to British intelligence and commission reports on the ground, our army has managed to extract 250 tanks, 450 armored transporters, 600 pieces of artillery tools. Now what's happening is why I'm asking this question. Everything NATO didn't destroy, we started destroying ourselves. Is it true that from 2004 to 2012, during the chairmanship of Boris Tadic and during the ministry in one part, Dragan Sutanovac, the Serbian Army then lost 4.306 officers and senior officers in their period of time until 2009 when the Chief of Staff was General Zdravko Ponos? Is it true that the overheated, cut or sold Buddha is why 200 tanks "T55", 121 armored transport, 77 self-run cannons, 215 artillery guns and destroyed 23,132 pieces of light weapons, or rifles? We destroyed 9,312 missiles and 420 rocket launchers that were fear and shivering for all low-flying planes that were looking for their targets on Earth. For all planes flying under the sound and low, and here I mean "A10 tanderbolt" or popularly referred to as "Budljivo Pig" which has showered us with ammunition from impoverished uranium, i.e. grenades. How many times have they given up their missions, just out of fear of those missiles, and I mean the Two-M missiles? Why was the Military Technical Institute mutilated, which had lost 600 formations in just one week and thus damaged the Serbian dedicated industry? Is this the price we had to pay for Boris Tadic to be re-elected as president of the state and for the Cypriot terrorists to give up the self-proclaimed state of "independent state of Kosovo"? Remember, it happened on February 15th, Boris Tadic took an oath, and independence was declared February 17th. Is the release of the command staff, and I mean the one who gained experience in the conflicts of the 1990s, the most important experience from NATO aggression and conflict in 1999 and the 1990s and the destruction of cannons, tanks, missiles, was it conscious that Serbia's defence power was weakened? On whose order was this done, whose will and will was it? Are there any elements to betrayal? What is the responsibility of the then state summit, President Boris Tadic, Minister Dragan Sutanovac and Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponos, who is now vice-president of Vuk Jeremic's party? Speaking of Tadic and Jeremic, I must say that these are two parties that have not supported the formation of a commission to investigate NATO's harmfulness of bombing and the impact of poor uranium on the health of our citizens. Perhaps because Boris Tadic prevented an investigation into the same thing in 2003, and Vuk Jeremic, probably from London, was unable to see what was happening in Serbia in 1999 when NATO was bombed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36508	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36509	Thank you. Requesting information from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic on the work plan, its activities and government duties from 1 June to 31 December 2018, when it comes to EU integration. What is and when and how prepared for the June 2018 summit, the December 2018 summit, and what are the commitments that it and the entire government make to themselves when it comes to European integration? This request for information may seem very general to you, but if a little more everyone reads about European integration, it is common in EU-accessing parliaments and it is common for the Prime Minister or Prime Minister to announce his work plan, including meetings and the thesis prepared for European meetings when it comes to accession, and it is necessary for Serbia to do so, however much in the countries of major enlargement, the countries of enlargement since 2013, 20078 was completely common. Why is it necessary? Because in public, the theme of European reforms is used for propaganda. It is used either to get off the subject of the agenda of European integration or to use it to develop impatience towards European integration. It may all be legal, but it is not legitimate, if members of the Prime Minister Ana Brnabic do so, it is particularly not legitimate if political parties do so, which otherwise routinely say they support Serbia's European integration. The essence and core of European integration is that we are turning words into pieces of the reforms we are agreeing on. For this reason, I request information from Ana Brnabic -- which will be agreed by the reforms, within which deadlines, at all meetings at which she participates when it comes to the EU from June 1st to December 31st? As a comment and an argument for the need to provide me with such information, I can only make a recommendation to the government to dedicate one of its sessions with the current topic to European integration, their flow, obstacles, the circumstances in which they are carried out, the plans and responsibilities of why deadlines break, why for the first time in Serbia's progress reports we have a problem with human capacities. This means that the government has driven experts out of the decision-making places and that people who are talking to partners in the EU should sit. The government is the only place, i.e. President Ana Brnabic, who can inform us of the course of normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina's relations. Since this is not part of European integration, it is not in the power of the European Integration Minister, it is not in the power of Commissioner Johannes Han, but in the foreign sector for which the government is also in charge. As an additional part of the overall plans and views and jobs which I hope will be responsible for by the end of 2018, I would also like to be provided to me in accordance with the handling of confidential data, if necessary for certain parts, and the report on the current time-limited commitments, and in respect of Chapter 35 and 2018 respectively, for the application of commitments undertaken. With the hope that both the Prime Minister and we in the Assembly will understand that such a request by any MPs is a routine thing, when it comes to European integration, and it is not a routine thing to deal with European reforms, with the decisions of Serbia's policy and with the views that we otherwise share, we are playing and having second thoughts, placing propaganda on that we can give up. If the Prime Minister wants to give up European integration, he must also come to this Assembly and make it clear. If he gets most of it, he'll give up, but he's bound to say what the price is. I don't ask her to do it, and I don't think it's going to happen, but I'm asking for a work report by the end of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36510	Thank you, colleague Komic. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Stefana Miladanovic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that during the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda - draft legislation on special conditions for the implementation of the project for members of the Security Forces, all members of the Government, Aleksandra Damjanović and Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Veljko Kovacevic, Darinka Djuran, Saša Stojanović and Zoran Ilic, Deputy Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Jovana Atanacković and Djorda Milić, Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and Vida Jerkovic, Head of the Department of the Department of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. On behalf of the 2nd amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marko Djurisic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36511	There are several problems with this bill. One of these problems is the fact that today there is Mr. Vulin, third in line minister, which of course is not a problem, it is a matter of government, but the ministers have so far had different opinions on certain provisions of the bill. Of course, the fundamental problem that we point out is the fact that this is how these young people should have been solved, not just security services, but that in this way they should have solved the housing issues of all young people, because this is the only way that these young people somehow get to their apartments and then we remember that Vucic promised that in 2014, at a price of 380 euros per square metre. Since this is 500 euros per square metre today, then we ask, Minister, does this mean that in Serbia everything is up by 31.58%? That would make some sense. This amendment has been rejected, because if we accepted this amendment, you say in the Government, then we would disable the phase of implementation of this bill. Speaking of phase realization, Zorana Mihajlovic said you plan to build 1,578 apartments in the first phase. Nebojsa Stefanovic said yesterday that this is not true, that in the first phase, which will last about two years, more than five thousand apartments will be built, but Zorana, therefore, 1.578, here I quote it, says – the phase one we have proposed is a phase that will be implemented in the next two, two and a half years. So, you need to make a deal so you can talk to the MPs, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36512	Thank you. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36513	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, have submitted an amendment that we wish to extend the jurisdiction, i.e. the scope of this law, and that, in addition to that, that members of the Security Forces will have the right to apply for these subsidized apartments, this can also be done by people working in health, who work in education and education, so that they can compete with families with children and people who, thanks to your policy, have become a technological surplus and have no settled housing issue. Simply, if one such Lex specialises in certain categories of citizens of the Republic of Serbia is brought, we must not allow any discrimination against others. So this amendment is indeed justified and covers all social communities and employees of organisations that are also of great importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No one can say that people working in education, in the education system of the Republic of Serbia, deserve the opportunity to compete for such apartments. No one can say that about doctors either. No one can say anything about workers and people who are employed in cultural or social protection institutions. So, let's make one of these Lex specials for a particular category, let's cover the other. Especially when we talk about security forces, this will not improve their status. First, they should be financially willing to pay that 500 euros per square -- to borrow, to borrow from someone, and to pay for that 500-euro apartment per square. On the other hand, what is their position in the military, since there is a defence minister, the best example is that Serbia's best soldier, Mr. Minister, leaves the same army, a man who is Ginis's recordman, who was named the best soldier in Serbia's military in April. He's leaving the same army because years ago you've frozen the promotion of soldiers, getting new rank and improving their status. All normal armies would be proud to have one of those soldiers who's Giniz's recorder. The man entered the Ginis Book of Records. Because of your policy and state in Serbia's defence system, people are slowly leaving. He's just an example of thousands of them leaving every year. And now you want to offer them cheap apartments, so you can probably solve some of their problems. Before that, there are many problems to solve, and from this example we can only suspect that this is actually just a solution for those who invest, or build, perform works, some of your businessmen such as various non-transparent projects such as "Belgrade on Water" and many others. I am here, Minister Mihajlović, in principle, asking the question – does the construction of these apartments in the Makiška polje have anything to do with the construction of "Tesla grada", also at the location of the Makiška polje, announced by Bogoljub Karic as a representative of the BK Group and Sinisa Mali as mayor and Milutin Folic as a city architect? Here, we see again these days the update of this story, that the BK group has again issued a statement and said that the conditions have been obtained and that the city begins 800,000 square meters of living space at the site of Makiška polje modern "Tesla grada", that the price of squares of these apartments will be 500 euros per metre square metre. So, just as much as the state will charge soldiers, cops, and it would take other employees, in health care, education, etc., with subsidies. So Bogoljub Karic sells himself 500 euros and the state subsidises 500 euros. Then why are you spending money? Why are you spending money on Serbian citizens? Guide them to Karic and let them buy 500 euros in apartments in Tesla City at the same location. When we talk about the same location, I have a survey paper in front of me that's been given to the Ministry of the Interior. The building minister has been telling me here and trying to deceive and members of Serbia's security forces, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and me, that the Maquis Field is not a location for building apartments. Then someone's lying. It is clear here that in Belgrade there is a location of Chukarica Makiška polje. Either you're lying to security forces, or the minister isn't familiar with that location where these cheap apartments should be built. In this regard, when it comes to the price of squares, it is defined here in Belgrade to be up to 550 euros, plus VAT. So you will be more expensive than Karic's apartments, which will be 500 euros. So what's the logic then? How can a businessman, an investor, privately build a building and sell cheaper than a state to subsidize apartments? Who's gonna make the difference? If it pays him to sell these apartments 500 euros, then who's going to take this difference that the state subsidizes? Who's gonna build these buildings and who's gonna build these apartments? I call upon you first of all to respect this amendment that we have submitted, because we have also submitted amendments in the previous period, here, specifically, and in the Law on Transport and Road Safety, when you did not accept our amendment two months ago about the 80-mile limit on the highway, so two months later you submitted a proposal for a new amendment to the Law and defined it in the Law that we proposed. I also now invite you to this amendment. This amendment prevents discrimination against healthcare professionals, educational staff, cultural institutions, social protection, disabled persons. So, with the utmost respect for what security forces do, they deserve the help of the state, but we also need to be aware that other categories of employees in the Republic of Serbia deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36514	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36515	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 106 and Article 107. Dignity has been injured, and the speaker has not held the topic up and down. Bogoljub Karic is not a topic. By the way, the Ovca spa isn't on Chukarica, it's on Palilu. He was talking about fired and underpaid. He spoke and thus injured the dignity that participated, one way or another, in firing 400,000 people. He spoke of military figures, the deputy of the descendent wolf, Jeremic, who boasted in America, when he was a junior adviser to Boris Tadic, as retired 300 Yugoslav Army officers who had had war experience in Kosovo and Metohija. He was talking about social problems, housing shortages. He, deputy Vuk Jeremic, who built for himself during the Democratic Party. Vuk Jeremic has a 1m-euro apartment. That's 25 apartments. With a salary of 800 to 1,000 euros, he acquired a million-euro house. That's 25 apartments for the military and the police. He spoke, who received 55m dinars from Ljubisa Knezevic and Dinkic's father-in-law to cut grass in Tristenik in February. That's 15 more apartments. He talked about it all, and I think dignity has been hurt, but I'm not asking to vote on it and respect the tolerance that you're showing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36516	I thank my colleague Rističević. If I'd known all the facts you pointed out, I'd have suggested, but that's why you're here, as a MP, to meet both the public and the MPs. As far as I'm concerned, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36517	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, because by whom you have allowed Mr. Risticevic to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to talk through advertising, or injury to members, about things that have nothing to do with it. It's happening all the time. It's clear to everyone today that it's tactics. I have no intention of nonsense, fiction and lies, which have been around here for years, to answer. But I'm warning you, and I'm asking you, if we start this debate where we're going to report to the Rules of Procedure, where we're going to point out that a member is hurt or not, and we're going to talk about some kind of theft, crime, corruption, thieving, what, you've been able to do everything you wanted for six years, to arrest all those responsible. Start with me first, bring the property origin law, and we'll see who did what. Let's talk about it. Don't let us do this through the Rules of Procedure. The dignity of this home is collapsing. The Institute of Rules of Procedure is being abused, and it doesn't make any sense. I talked about the subject all the time and cited examples. I was talking about apartments, I was talking about the law, I was talking about our amendment. I didn't hurt anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36518	Mr. Alexic, you just did what you suggested. So in a way, you used a part of the Rules of Procedure to continue the controversy and to replicate. Please, if you insist on it when it comes to all MPs, then you respect it. Mr Risticevic pointed out a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, presented certain facts and findings on which he believes that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated and that is his legitimate right. Whether or not it is injured will be decided by the Assembly in the voting day. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Miroslav Aleksic: Yes) Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36519	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I shall be very brief, Article 108. I respect your tolerance and I won't insist, but when someone tells someone they're lying, they have to make an argument, otherwise it's considered an insult. But it's hard to insult someone smarter than you. Now I'm going to try to show that I'm something smarter and more permissive after all. I just want to be told – is it true or not that the Trust Fund for the promotion of human resources from Triestenik while he ruled has won 55 million dinars or not? For cutting grass, yes or no? Does Vuk Jeremic have a 1m-euro apartment, and that print says yes or no? Nothing more. So if it turns out that it's not true, I'll apologize publicly to everyone, but I'm saying it's true. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36520	Comrade Mircic, you wanted to follow the amendment. Only a colleague, Alexander Markovic, has contacted you before. I'm sorry, then you. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36521	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest not to accept the proposed amendment of the previous speaker, in which we could hear false concerns, false concerns about various categories of Serbian citizens, so I don't know, there are mentions of employees in health, education, education and other categories of Serbian citizens, and this false concern comes from MPs who belong to a group of MPs in which one party is former President Boris Tadic. It was this Boris Tadic, during his power, that was, unfortunately, the president of the Republic, who promised 200,000 new jobs as a major pre-election promise, and then there weren't even those 200,000 jobs, but 400,000 additional people were out of work at the time of his term. And then they fired all those categories of employees. They fired both health workers and workers in education and security forces, they didn't choose, 400,000 people were fired, so. There's a reference to Giniz's record book just now. Yes, I agree, for the Ginis Book of Records is the number of people you fired during your reign. If you're wondering why you're going through elections like this, the answer is precisely because of the hypocritical attitude you've been putting out before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36522	By amendment, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36523	The Serbian Radical Party continues to intend to improve this legal solution to the Lex specialis. In Article 2, we have proposed amendments, for the reason that strengthening national security basically involves a well-trained and equipped member of the security forces, a well-paid, situationed member of the security forces and those who were formerly members, and are now in the status of pensioners, situations and their security is a social category, so that national security cannot depend on the social category. If it's an award of apartments at affordable prices, then it's in the right sense of the word just one help. What strengthens additional national security, when it comes to Serbia, apart from what we have said, is law enforcement, respect for the constitution, the fight against crime, and ultimately, what the SRS always emphasises, and we hope that most will finally understand, because such beliefs are basically, that is co-operation with the Russian Federation, that strengthens Serbia's national security, because in any case it gives Serbia the strength to resist all these pressures and all these challenges. We can pass special laws as long as you want, but the essence is precisely in the operational moves that need to be drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36524	Thank you, colleague Mircic. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36525	Thank you. I'd be far happier if we were really talking about the subject here. I opened a few questions, a fellow MP told me that it should not be accepted, but then he made some arguments that did not stand, which had nothing to do with what I was saying. So, first of all, if we talk about how many people have fired from Serbia, how much and when it has been difficult to live in Serbia, it will certainly be seen by citizens in the last seven years who feel well-being and well-being in this country after your rule, and this is best seen in the case of how many people have left Serbia. At that time, some may have been fired, and today so much has gone from Serbia permanently and never to return. Thanks to your policy, workers in Serbia are gone, going to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany and all over the world. That's the result of your six-year policy. As for the election, I went to the election with my name and name against your entire coalition and your president and won 35.7, I admit, I lost to you by 36.2. I invite you to each and every one of you by your own name to go to elections in your midst, in your local communities, and then boast of the result you have won. Don't hide behind your boss, your leader and your various regimeal media. Next, I expect, Mr. Minister, answers these questions from you. You're here today's bill promoter, and you need to answer other associates' questions that I've opened here. Please stick to the subject. If we want to talk about anything else that's not on the agenda, we can talk about it, but it seems to me it's neither in the interest of this home nor of the government nor of any citizen of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36526	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36527	Thank you, Your Honor. I thought I'd pick up the amendment before this, but since the Rules of Procedure, article 107, is a dignity of the Assembly. The previous speaker, as well as the proposal for the amendment, once again wants to deceive the public of Serbia and Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens fled Triestenik, which he led up to two years ago. Why? Well, because he only wanted to secure himself and his family. How? Well, here, Mr. previous speaker received a monthly salary of 107,000 as president of the municipality of Trstenik, was a member of the Supervisory Board of the factory Kruševac, monthly compensation – 41,000 almost, member of the Management Board of the National Park Kopalnik – more than 17,000, director of the Directorate for Construction of Trstenik – 72,000. In addition, a speaker who spits on the state he lives in, spits on the government of the Republic of Serbia, spits on the ministries, gets a tractor from the state with subsidies. Well, it's really a shame and he's ashamed to show up here and say anything. In addition, he and his father-in-law robbed the state through the Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources, and it publicly signed contracts in which his father-in-law, Ljubisa Knezevic, authorised. In addition, he mentioned earlier that the state is providing compensation to television. Well, his wife Marija Knezevic Aleksic works on TV Trstenik. How would she get paid? In addition, this authority now in Trieste did not fire, as they did. How is he not ashamed to keep talking here and lying to the public? The people of Triestenik show him in the elections, and in the village where he came from, he got only two votes, not two percent, two votes. Therefore, a colleague should be ashamed of himself, not to speak false here and try to lead the citizens astray. I'd add one more, but I'll do that next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36528	Thank you, colleague Barisic. I don't think I've hurt Article 107, but I certainly have to ask you – do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the amendment promoter has a strong desire for us to discuss the amendment, there is no problem, we are always ready to meet such a wish. I immediately tell you that I call for not to be accepted, both this and the other amendments submitted by the MP group Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, who normally loves to talk about amendments, others first of all, and for this session she submitted, if statistics are not wrong, 1,358 amendments, which I congratulate them on, and everyone is, of course, very good and meaningful, how they like to emphasize it, and they are very little, just 1,358, because they care about constructive debate in this room. What have they submitted to this law? They've been wrong from the beginning and when they're wrong at the very beginning, which means in the title, they're wrong from member to member. This may be an example of the ultimate illiteracy that we've already had here, and maybe it's an example of a terrible misunderstanding of how the state works, well, let's get started, how it's supposed to be done from the beginning. The title they gave is that the law refers to - members of security forces, employees of education and health systems and cultural areas. Do they mean members of security forces, who are at the same time employed in the fields of education, health and cultural areas or are only tragically illiterate? Next, they're talking about families with children, people with disabilities with a loss of employment skills and unemployed people who stopped working as extra employees, whatever. He is right, Mr Markovic, that there is probably hundreds of thousands of people who left themselves without a job, if they care about the unemployed. However, I was surprised that someone here was worried that people would be able to pay a subsidized price of about 500 euros per square, because as they said it was bad for them to understand the standards of people today. Well, then how do you plan on paying that price for the unemployed, because their standards are better than their employees? Another example of how someone doesn't even think about what they're going to put on paper when they make a proposal. From members to members, this is, however, from the second sadder and sadder, ever more illiterate and illiterate, specifically for this member here, the amendment reads – realising the project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia, to improve, as well as to improve education, health, etc. What does this mean? They probably don't even know how to explain it to us themselves, and probably the next members won't know how to tell us what's autonomous, what's a stand-alone artist, what's an expert, etc. So these are all fantastic examples of good, constructive congregation work, proposals that make a qualitative contribution to the law itself. Let's go, let's deal with their arguments. In the reasons we heard that the subsidized price of 500 euros per square is not good and they do not understand how much more favourable it is than something that exists on the market. So, compared to 1,000 euros, simple mathematics says it should be twice as favourable than 1,500 three times more favourable, these are some commercial prices. Whoever doesn't understand it can't even accept and greet the good fact that it's coming out today for employees in a particular sector. Whatever you want, whatever you want, whenever something good is going on, it's basic order, it's basic human behavior to say – well, this is good for all the good, and not to be dealing with pointless stories like – who's going to build it now and whether it's going to be worth it to someone because it's a partnership relationship with a company. Gentlemen, this is done without wanting to make any money. This is done without a desire to take a single cent over what is the basic cost of production to do something and then to allow it to be used. I guess that's a clear urgency, but this price wouldn't be subsidized so low if there was any other logic. We know why a partner relationship is mentioned here, because it's always trying to throw away some clue of doubt about whether there's some kind of cult shop on the subject of construction. It's completely inappropriate, and it's not even particularly politically wise to mention someone who's a co-worker today, Dragana Gilas. Boris Tadic, I don't know if it's open or hidden, but Vuk Jeremic is an open political associate of Dragan Dilas. Take a look at the situation in Belgrade about this construction sector. At a time when he mourned and burned Dragan Gilas. Hundreds of millions of euros are measured for the damage that has been done right in the sector, precisely in terms of construction, hundreds of millions of euros. How? Unfortunately, as it seemed then, by law. A job is made, no guarantees are required, because no guarantees are required for a failed payment of a job. Now, what's gone down has fallen into hundreds of millions of euros. The city government in Belgrade, which you can't think of, for which you can't hide how much you can't stand it, has just changed it and is looking for serious guarantees today, before any contract is made. Just so you don't do any more of that catastrophic damage that's reflected - where? Well, certainly not in the pocket of Wolf Jeremiah, his pocket is fine. Certainly not the pocket of Dragan Gilas, it's great in his pocket. This is then missing the Belgrade city's budget and then costing citizens the capital. We've changed that, just like we've changed that amazing relationship to just talk about something long and wide, to make drawings, models, 3D models, and for example, "Beograda on water," and not to go into realisation at all, so that the aces don't stick together ever, not even to clean up that whole coast that we all know was what it looked like. It is precisely the manner in which Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, his excellent associate, who is not known which full pockets, which he spoke more, were lurking and only causing more damage. "Belgrade on Water" to remind you, which you cannot come up with as a project, because it is proof of your failure and your personal political collapse. It's the city's power you can't stand. It was advertised by Dragan Gilas, he spoke of him as a good, large project that would change Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, but was unable to begin it either. So, the ones you don't like are, just because they exist, proof of your failure, and Dragan Gilas, to remind you of that he took pictures next to those drawings, models, he even advertised projects for certain tycoons, and he didn't move from that to yota. With a name and a last name to be guaranteed for something political, I always welcome it. Come on, then tell Vuk Jeremic, tell Vuk Jeremic, if he's so politically strong, if he's so politically popular to go out on the street and collect support signatures to register a party, not buy a party. Who else did he buy it from? I can't remember now. Who gave Vuk Jeremic, gave everything, somehow I mean, sold it for a good price, a political party. Why does Vuk Jeremic, if he is so good and politically capable, not collect signatures and register his party from scratch. It will be because everyone knows how politically capable he is, how politically popular he is. This is also the result of the elections and the results of the opinion studies. Is it two or three percent, I'm not sure, but that something is better than the ratings of also large political sizes such as Sasa Jankovic, such as that main campaign singer of various regimes or that association of citizens who have been lying about being a party for years, and in fact it's nothing. Well, no, that's the level, that's the rank. It's better than that, it just can't. When we talk about departures from Serbia, statistics say that raw statistics are not unfortunately higher on the annual level, they are not smaller than they are in the last 15 years, but one year there, if you watch statistics, is particularly prominent. It was not in the past seven years, but just at the time of these Tadics, Jeremic, their Gilas and others, when only a year, three times more people left this country than they are now in one year. Be careful before you open topics that don't pay off. Finally, if you're talking about voices, take all of this nicely to one pile, analyze well, but this time well, don't skip it like you've done so far and you'll understand why Vuk Jeremic, why Dragan Djilas, why Sasa Jankovic and all the others who are literally the same. You don't know who's burning there, but no one better than anything is, why everyone in one crowd loses in Belgrade only, 130,000 votes in a year. How old are you gonna be next year? Think for yourself, don't skip the subject as you've shown that you're the only one who can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36530	Thank you. By amendment, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36531	I thank the chairman. First, as for the lady who hallucinated some two posts, or two voices that keep mentioning that I won, I have to inform that I never participated in those elections, and I don't know what a woman's been talking about for a year and a half. And, right, I was getting paid while I was director of the Directorate as director. I also received salary as president of the municipality, but I never managed to receive two salaries as a touch that at the same time received the salary of doctors at the Kruševac Health Centre and here the salary of MPs, and I don't know how she could have been in two places at the same time. So much for that. As far as these other matters are concerned, our amendments may be illiterate, perhaps even this amendment illiterate, we are not all written and professional enough, as you are from the ruling regime, but the essence is quite clear. So, in addition to members of security forces, our proposal with this amendment is to respect both health, education and other institutions and institutions. So maybe we're the bad ones, maybe the decimal isn't where it's supposed to be, but I don't think that changes the essence, so let's do it on our illiteracy. As for the illiteracy and our amendments that are such, the best is the amendment I spoke of, which we submitted two months ago when the Transport and Safety Act was adopted on the roads, when we asked for the amendment to mileage, in fact, the speed on the highway to 130 km, and you refused to do so. He was probably illiterate then, as he is today, but then two months later you suggested it yourself, I don't know why or how. Now I ask you not to be the same thing again, that in two months or six months or a year we talk again about one of these same things, because you think that we are illiterate and that we cannot make adequate amendments that could improve the legal proposals that enter the congregation procedure and that are being adopted. As far as construction is concerned, is it a high or low price, I have very clearly set things up, if Bogoljub Karic as a private firm can build apartments and sell them for 500 euros per square, how does the state sell 500 euros per square, or 550 euros, more expensive than Bogoljub Karic, why are you spending state money? Why don't you get people to buy from the man of the apartment he's building 500 euros or maybe you've already agreed to do that, so I don't prejudge things? On the other hand, I would understand that you stayed on that promise from your President, Alexander Vukic, that the apartments will be cheap and that the price will be 380 euros per square, said three years ago. Of those dwellings that were 380 euros per square, we came to 500 euros today, 550 euros plus VAT, more expensive than those built by Bogoljub Karic as a private investor. As for Mr Vuk Jeremic and the others you mentioned here, who destroyed the city of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas and others. Perhaps they were not as professional as Sinisa Mali, Goran Vesic to develop Belgrade so well, to break down under cover of the night and suspend the state-run facility on "Savamali", that they manage so well from 24 apartments that the kid built in Bulgaria, with 45 bank accounts, to build some fountains and masts. That's right. They were unable to do so and probably will not be in the next period, because they can't, they can't steal, they can't lie the way they've done it so far in Belgrade. So they did it very well and I'm happy that today I represent that group of people who are not in power. Only with you in your regime did I realize that in fact, it was thieves who were the opposition, and it wasn't the government. I kind of don't get it. While you were the opposition, you said there were thieves in power, and now that you're the government, now you're saying that the thieves are opposition. I don't know what's true. So, you've been ruling for seven years. He who is a thief, who has sinned against any law, should answer. Give me that law once and I mean the origin of the property, adopt it, and let's see who's guilty and who's not, who's what. Don't try to let seven years of your reign pass in a sign that you're spitting power, that the government is guilty of today's state of affairs in the country. It's their fault when they ruled for the condition they were. It's you today. I'll remind you, you've switched roles. If we're talking about the amendment and we're talking about "Belgrade on Water", if we're talking about buying a party, it's all about buying and selling for you. I understand. You can't understand that someone's making arrangements to team up, to work on a project together, you all think someone sold someone, that they stole something, because a thief's afraid. That's the point. So there's nothing else here. All those insinuations, all those nicknames actually say that you're afraid of it, you're thinking that way, you'd be doing what you're accusing us of today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36532	counterpart Barisic has a priority, as he points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36533	I thank the chairman. The previous speaker can never say anything here without telling the truth. A member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly was injured. When it comes to salaries and my incomes, the Anti-Corruption Agency takes care of all our incomes and it can be checked on the site, and I'm surprised that the previous speaker doesn't know that a work book can only be present in one place. I'm surprised he ran the county for so long, he doesn't know the basic rules or the basic laws. For my receipts, you can check on the Anti-Corruption Agency website, but also for its receipts, all these four receipts are recorded on the Anti-Corruption Agency website. So what he's saying is always false. What he's saying is that we don't do anything, he's showing us our results, that our party doesn't show up by name and last name. Our candidate, the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vucic, won by over 65%. The same list found his candidate who got slightly more than a few percent. Doesn't that say what the strength of SNS, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is, and what is the strength of one who buys a party with a dozen members from the previous speaker? I would ask him where he and his candidate got to rent rooms in the center of Kruševac with a monthly rent of 3,000 euros, and they don't have 300 members. No matter how many 300 members at Serbia's level, they have absolutely no support. But he only serves the false, he sees BIA, Gasic, Vukic and everyone else. I'm sorry. Citizens' support is not obtained by falseness, but only by work, and SNS, Gasic, Vucic and all others, only through responsible politics and work and results, receive over 65% support.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36534	Thank you. I don't think I've hurt that member by my actions, but I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. A fellow Eagle, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36535	First of all, to confirm that we are afraid, we are terrified of Vuk Jeremic and his 2-3% party. Those 2-3% just put fear in our bones. I admit it openly. So there's nothing to argue about, that's a fact. On this client purchase. I don't know if you classify it that way or otherwise, and I'm just wondering, or why is it that much popular and popular Vuk Tadic didn't come out nice on the street and take out the stand and collect the signatures of support, but take the finished party, if it's so popular? On the other hand, whoever gave him that party, here maybe he didn't sell it, how did he get so good at becoming the first vice president? Because it is more politically popular than the other vice presidents and than Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, and I don't know who else is there. I'm kind of seeing this relationship. Give it to me, I'll come to you. Maybe I don't see it the right way. Past tense, we claimed, thieves are there. Today we claim, the thieves are there. It's called a principled attitude. We thieves see all the time in the same place. That's to be clear. We don't change anything here. If the thieves were on that side, that's what they say. Look at the DS task force report, they formed their own task force and said, let's find out who stole and their task force said, stole DS from 2006 to here. Who was in charge of this party? Was it Dragan Gilas? He was. Was it Boris Tadic? He was. Was it the Wolf of Tadic? So was he. Who's been stealing in the DS since 2006, here, if not them. That's what they say. People from the DS signed that as members of the commission think it and claim it and say it well there, the text is theirs, their words, I don't make anything up, then they set up tenders, competitions, then they convinced themselves of the percentage. If they call themselves yellow thieves in that same report, who am I to oppose them and to claim that they are wrong? So much for what anyone thinks and who claims. Last sentence, since we're talking about this party. They chose her name well. The People's Party was called a small party in Montenegro. I think of her every time I hear you scratching today. You're as convincing as you used to be, Novak Kilibard.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36536	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski called.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36537	Of course this amendment should not be accepted, because who, the army of shorts, Alexic, about honesty. He's gone so he doesn't have to answer the questions I'm going to ask him, and that's whether his concern stems from concerns whether Bogoljub Karic is going to sell the apartments he's building, invest, sell in Serbia, and I don't believe that Bogoljub Karic hired him to resell his apartments as a mediator. But I would like him to answer our question whether he is actually concerned that this building of apartments, which is now a thousand and something, and five thousand, so to solve the problem of 30,000 security forces, does not endanger the budget of the Republic of Serbia in that part, because the gentleman was buying land on the path of the Moravia Corridor, planting years of ambush. This will be followed by a one-off fee and I believe that his concern for the Republic of Serbia's budget stems from an extremely personal interest because I see no other motive. All he ever said was that he allegedly worked in someone else's interest, even in that Fund for the Promotion of Citizens' Resources, it turned out that it was done exclusively in the family's interest. Also, how do you trust someone who lies wherever he gets and where does he get what he says? The other day, he said he didn't get a regress for the tractor he got. That's just not true. I checked. He was paid 890,000 dinars in order, as well as everyone else, long before many members of the ruling coalition, but it is completely irrelevant. So it belongs to a man. I am glad that the tractor will not plant these multi-year plantings that it has already planted, thereby making the Republic of Serbia's resources another major budget damage. He's used to it. It's his autopsy. This kind of behavior, extradition, unloading a bunch of questions, and then getting out of the O.R. is something that's become common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36538	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36539	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an opportunity to address you for the first time and to say that I must admit that I expected that we would have one general consensus when it comes to this law, because it is very difficult to challenge the purpose of this law. This is after decades and decades of negligent law that will finally effectively address the needs of our members of the Security Service. It's hard enough finding an argument to be against him. It's pretty hard. You can ask for his correction, his ideas, but in the same speech you say -- that's the introduction of members of the security service into debt slavery, and then you say -- but you give it to the same educators, health care, etc. Well, wait, what do you want now? Is that good or bad? Is that debt slavery or is that help? Is it positive discrimination or is it something that is a disaster, very bad for all people? You know, when you feel this bitterness and the one thing that in 12 years you haven't managed to do this kind of little law, which you could have done at a time when you had far more money, then you only have that bitterness, that you broadcast to anyone who does something and who creates it. I don't know how many apartments were then divided into municipalities and made in municipalities, which were spoken of by previous MPs, but I know it was so small, they weren't there. You know, to be clear, there will be a price in Belgrade that has been said more than clear. So 550 euros max, because you have a 10% VAT. With VAT, you're counting on it and you're going to have the most favourable conditions possible and let's get one more very important thing straight, and I'm asking you all to take care of it. These aren't cheap apartments, these aren't social housing, these are apartments that work according to the highest standards, and they will be delivered to the security service according to the most favourable conditions. This isn't building any social media, this is building top-of-the-line apartments for top-level people and from the state that takes care of them. We'll talk more, just ask that as much as we can, we're talking about the law. If we can't, we're here for politics, what do we do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36540	Thank you, Minister. The People's MP, Josip Broz, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36541	I thank you, Chairman. I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group and immediately point out that this amendment tries to specify the text of the law, especially a provision relating to the importance of the security system and is exactly a formulation and such, that the realization of this project is indeed of particular importance for the security system. We just heard from the minister of one finding, that there should be one general consensus here when it comes to national security, and therefore all those in the national security system. We in the SPS parliamentary group fully agree, given the indisputable facts and that national security is our priority. A Turbulent time in which we find various interests that break across Serbia or break geostrategic or otherwise across our territory and that imposes the need to strengthen the national security system. If that is true, and it is true, then indeed it is necessary for every member in the national security system to provide everything that enables him to respond in the best possible way to a delicately responsible task, a dedicated job, a high-level job, which is the defence of Serbia's territory and its national interests. That is why we should in no way be hypocritical of this law and talk about any discrimination. I think that, Minister, you can agree with me that discrimination as a kind of hypocrisis, which is being imposed here, applies to other groups that in no way can be the backbone of everything we're talking about right now because Lex specialises, which is this law, based on the fact that without strengthening the national security system, we cannot provide members of all those who are in services, security services, basic conditions and for life, and for work and for achieving the relevant results in the work that they do. If that's true, and it is true, then we have to go from one fact that's clumsy again. All those others, and educational workers, and doctors, etc., will certainly have attention from the Republic of Serbia, from the state, from the executive authority to the extent possible, especially to the extent that this is possible by means of budgetary means, that various social existential and other issues are resolved in the best possible way. So, we only talk about one category, about the category of members of the security services and nothing more, and members of the security services have one extremely serious task, and this task implies that the state of Serbia, as the government of the Republic of Serbia has done so far, continues to achieve peace, achieve stability in the wider region, as well as what we all seek, which is to preserve the territorial sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. On you after the adoption of this law, Mr. Minister, there remains another task, and this task is to adopt sublegal acts that will be governed by the way and rules of the assignment of dwellings, which I really believe should be supported by your position, must be built by the highest standards of quality by building muzanes, which must be fully respected and by the functionality that corresponds to the most comfortable way of life, i.e. the use and fruit of the enjoyment of apartments where all those who gain them and the right of ownership. I think in that direction you should consider those who, through some selection, which you will definitely have to carry out, will be primarily taken care of, and these are those who have both the most responsible and the most important tasks in the security system. Of course, there should also avoid any suspicion of discrimination when it comes to the allocation of dwellings to members of the security services and that in this direction the rules or rules under which this is done must be fully transparent, must be made available and in any way must be precise, because in no case should the possibility of any doubt or dilemma be left in the manner of granting discrimination, disputed circumstances which could potentially lead to judicial proceedings. In the end, I just want one more fact to point out, which is being imposed here as being of great importance. If the state of Serbia at this time, which is very delicate, very complex, needs support, then that support must come exclusively from the direction from which this whole law is being focused, which is to strengthen our security services, strengthen our security forces, all that they deserve and deserve to be provided and thus Serbia can be sure that it will provide its citizens with what citizens deserve as a random need, which is peace, security, freedoms guaranteed to them by the Constitution and, most importantly, the state that will be preserved and territorially and which will be preserved by its sovereignty. I think this law makes a great contribution that these goals and achieve and what I think ultimately should be pointed out, that all those covered by this law can be sure that based on this law as a Lex specialist, they will get what they deserve, which are normal conditions, comfortable living conditions, and therefore, the conditions that they can continue their work, their work, which is very responsible and delicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36542	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36543	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is trying to help you make these bills that are passed by emergency procedure more transparent and precise. I come from the middle, which was firstly devastated, and especially forgotten and neglected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in every sense of the word. I see some colleagues in the principle debate thank Mrs. Mihajlovic that roads have been made throughout Serbia, and reconstructed, 200km of highways and the like. That's good, we support everything that's been done so far, but a little bit more needs to go down those roads and see how people live in those little, say, environments. I invite you to go and visit, not only the routes of the Ra's region, but that, Prepolje, Priboja, Sjenice, Nova Varoshi, but also the citizens of those areas, to see how they live. It is true that the roads bring people together, and Serbia needs roads, but we have to admit that the better our paths are, the less people go that way, and even if they go, they go one way, because they don't take the return ticket. What makes people go that way in one direction? Nothing but a bad standard of living, factories closed, new jobs or in sight, and their only aspect is, unfortunately, west. Knowing the fact that these promises don't live, because, of course, if we have a problem with road and rail infrastructure, we're going to attract foreign investors somewhere. But make an effort to get at least one investor into the aforementioned municipalities of the Raska area. Help these municipalities, because the citizens, gentlemen, have given you the most trust, I mean the SNS, and that is why you have the obligation to give it back to them in some way. Once again, I remind you not to forget that Serbia is not up to Zlatibor and do something that the principle of even regional development must be in all of Serbia and be equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36544	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first position of Article 2 on which I have submitted the amendment, the implementation of the project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. To be clear, the SRS advocates strengthening the national security system, but we believe that this model only makes sense if it applies to other endangered categories such as, say, miners, health workers or education. What you propose to this law refers to a security system in a narrow operational sense. Security is not just business, authorities and services dealing with national, military, public and intelligence affairs, but also a lot more. For the purpose of the implementation of this project, full coordination of several other ministries, the work of state authorities and the horizontal and vertical authorities is needed. The law is only under consideration, and there is already a certain discrepancy between individual actors, i.e. A participant in this project, which my colleagues were already talking about. You can solve this project with only a fraction of the national security segment's total policy. What about the other endangered categories? To be honest, the security sector has also been somewhat privileged in socialism. They had their rank, their rank, their resting places, their schooling, their health care, their benefits, better wages. To finish with more food, the SRS does not slow the need to build these apartments, only to extend the model to other categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36546	Thank you. My friend Alexic, you want the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36547	I thank the chairman. I support the explanation and the amendment of the previous speaker because it's on the trail of what I've been talking about here all along, but since some here called me that I ran away, that I didn't want to hear what they're saying about me, of course I'm not and I don't have any problem standing here alone, and I'm plowing with all of you, because the truth is one of them can't escape. I'm enough one to answer all the lies you're making during today's debate. The minister said I was contradictory in my presentation, so I'd just like to clarify the situation. I was talking about the price of the BK group's apartment coming out of the VAT for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the price you offered to the security forces is a subsidized price of 500 euros. So how is it possible for the state to subsidise apartments and sell at the same price as a private investor? Why are these apartments not 380 euros as much as President Vukic announced? So that's the question. And should we give it to others? Of course, it should be given not only to members of security forces, but also to employees in health care, education, cultural institutions, social protection, etc. As far as the minister's contradiction is concerned, the greatest contradiction is actually coming from yourself, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Mihajlovic, who has proposed the law here, said it would build 1.578 cheap apartments for security forces. Yesterday in this same assembly, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic said that 5,203 apartments will be built and I don't know who's telling the truth now, and who's not telling the truth, and that's what Serbian citizens should know. Keep going. Yesterday Minister Stefanovic said that if it takes more, we will build for everything. Okay, then why don't you accept this amendment if you're already accepting that you're building, although nothing is your problem if you're building 1,500 or 5,000 apartments, then let's build for everyone, give people at least cheap apartments, but not 500 euros as the market value of the apartment, but 380, especially for the reason that in the municipality of Chukarica, the location of the Maquis field, is a meadow. So, these buildings that you build there will probably be the starting station of Sinishi Malo's Metro, for which you shared cards before the Belgrade elections, so security forces will have privileged tickets to start from these locations, the imaginary methroom of Sinishi Mali and the maps they bought at the time. Thank you. (Dragana Barisic: You are not alone because you are very strong, but have all left you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36548	Thank you. Comrade Orlic, I will give you the right to a replica, but before that, Mr. Aleksic, you have just launched an initiative to talk about what is the topic and what is the agenda point. You took a short break, left a card in the MP's unit and held a conference, went back and went back to where you were when you left, and we moved on to the next member. I didn't want to interrupt you and deny you the right to speak, but at least at this point you were talking about the amendment submitted by my colleague Dubravko Bojic, except for what you said you supported. Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36549	Thank you very much. Whoever is enough alone, who isn't, I won't get into it, but it seems that someone, just like Vuk Tadic did, or when he buys two parliamentary groups, still doesn't have enough, at least not enough for a proper impression. Why aren't the apartments, the question, 380 euros? Because they were too built by Boris Tadic and Vuk Tadic at the price. He built them so much at that price that there was nothing left for others. Let's get serious, when someone knows better, then they have a right to criticise what's going on today. Since he never knew better, if there's a change of human dignity, he can just shut up, nod his head and realize that something good is going on for someone in this country, let's just be polite so that I can figure it out and not make something wiser political or whatever, but I am. Five hundred euros is the estimated maximum price. Is it going to be 450? He doesn't know any better than I do the one who's bringing it up here right now. Is it going to be that 380? Again, he doesn't know better than I do, but he knows he has to say something, and he has to mention SNS and Alexander Vukic again, and he pretends he didn't understand that it was said here -- construction is done in stages, that he doesn't understand what that maximum price means, or that these thousands and something is the first step, and that there will be more. Don't worry about it. At a time when Serbia gets and creates, it has a place to go, so it will be. At a time when she was squirming in debt and dubiosis, at this glorious time that you wanted us not to remember, she couldn't. As for Makish and Metro, I understand that it hurts, I understand that it hurts, so at least as much as it hurts "Belgrade on the Water", at least as much as any fountain that one mentions, because this Makish, or that metro, is just as much a testimony to their incompetence as they once talked about, and also about the subway, Dragan Gilas, is also a reality today. Speaking of Dragan Dilas, not to be lied here, let them deny me and let them tell me who they were taking, whose lead was both Boris Tadic and Vuk Tadic and Dragan Djilas from 2006 on here, so that it does not turn out by chance that this report, which I claim to be thieves, is still telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36550	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36551	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying that it's more important to build in the state than to rule it, and that's what this government does, and it needs to be welcomed. I don't understand those who didn't build anything to object to the construction of apartments that, by the way, can run, or increase the work of the construction industry. It's obvious someone's going to sell bricks, ticks, sands, gravel, arms, etc. This is also of importance, and this will increase GDP in this country. I don't understand those who spent their allowance on a 50-square-square-a-month apartment. The descendant of Jeremic had an allowance, which was assigned to him by a telephone session, which was 500 during their rule, 25,000 euros, an allowance from the government. So a 50-square apartment. The descendant, who actively participated in the construction of Kosovo's independence, through the non-binding opinion, spent in five years of his rule, along with Tadic, but exclusively on a trip of 3.5m euros or 1.004 apartments per 50m. So it was more important for him to sleep in 1,200-euro apartments, spend 70,000 euros for one flight. It was more important to him to spend money from the state than to build something. It was more important to him to have a 1 million-euro apartment than to get 25 or 40 apartments for that apartment. I don't understand the objections. I think their basic objection is next – they resent us for not solving all the problems they have left overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36552	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Aleksic, according to the amendment. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. To whom do you want a replica? (Miroslav Aleksic: I want to respond to Mr Risticevic. The previous speaker? Mr. Risticevic mentioned you? (Miroslav Aleksic: He mentioned the party. Which parties, I'm sorry? (Miroslav Aleksic: People's Party. ) Parliamentary party? You can use the amendment to speak. (Miroslav Aleksic: Why? Because you have no basis for replication. Do you want to speak by amendment? The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, after the amendment. [[Miroslav Aleksic: I want a replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36553	Thank you, Chairman. I suggest that the amendment not be accepted, not because it is ill written or not given by God's malice, but simply everything in Article 2 is quite clear. Unlike some others, like this current colleague you haven't given a word to, if you look at other amendments, for example. Starting with the title, you'll see through Article 1, whether it's basic ignorance or whether it's an evil intention. I'd say before that it's some very bad and evil intention towards members of the security force, because to suggest, as he says. in Article 1, I am going back again to explain that criteria are being laid down for the construction of dwellings for unemployed people who have stopped working. It is true that they have made 200,000 unemployed in Serbia. This further insults them, as anyone in Serbia can borrow a loan, a loan, anything else in the bank unless the person is employed. It is clear that it is either ignorance or evil intent, but I think it is, after all, an evil intention, or a blur, or, if you will, taking cheap political points on some basic life issues when it comes to security forces again. The price doesn't matter. You saw this in the 2011 case when then Prime Minister Cvetkovic, under Boris Tadic's bat, took that famous loan in September of 7.5% to raise salaries and pensions before the May 2012 elections. What is even weirder, whenever they speak out of a messenger bench, they speak in the crowd “we, ”“ our amendments, ” so sits a man alone for days or days or no one else. It's hard to tell who they are, what the "we" refers to, who the parties belong to, who the leaders of their parties are, so please also take care of it in the future. We'll have to drop the amendment anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36554	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36555	You know, this project helped all security structures were designed by President Vukic and insisted that we need to find mechanisms to help all members of the security structures, make their lives easier and show them how grateful we are for what they're doing. They could have done so before him by other presidents of the Republic, other commanders. They didn't think of it, and they lived in an economic sense in better times for Serbia, at a time when they were loved by the whole world, when they were in charge of whatever you wanted. They could've taken one loan for this, you wouldn't have been their first, you wouldn't have been the last. They wouldn't take it. Now you're listening to how they think this should be extended to all Serbia, everyone should get it, but on the other hand, it's not bad to condemn this law, that it's bad, that debt slavery, etc., but let everyone in the second or third sentence take it. You know, there are certain specificities why exactly the members of the security structures. You know, they also have an underprivileged internship for some reason, because they do a job that's no less responsible than any other job, but it's specific and because of this specificity it has certain privileges, just as it has certain difficulties, and it's easy to understand. Only if you don't, only if you think you need to argue with members of security structures with everyone else, like they're taking something from you. They'll pay for this, they'll pay less, it'll be far more favourable than it was on the market, but they'll participate. The state will help and they will participate. Let's not make a permanent division in our people, fight them all the time, turn each other against each other. There's no reason. This has been done before, only now we finally have a man who runs the state, who has feelings and understanding for those who need help and wants to help them. On the one hand, you're talking - they're leaving the army, they're leaving the police, and when we want to find a way not to leave the army and the police, then you say - it's unacceptable, it's not supposed to work. This is part of the package, and that's how it's supposed to be experienced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36556	I thank the ministers. According to the amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36557	Thank you. I'm using the Democratic Party's parliamentary group time. For a few questions concerning the types of regulations and acts to which this law will show, according to amendments put by the ruling majority and opposition, that some issues are unclear, from what will happen to the unemployed, through those in other structures, of course, the position and view of each MP, with the right to assess whether or not Article 2 should be amended. My question concerns the type of acts and regulations that will regulate the right to alienate property purchased under such conditions, the right of the owner of real estate in case of termination of a working relationship, a disciplinary procedure or any other procedure which he or she ceases to be members of the security force, the obligation of the state in contractual relations on the basis of the list, as we have heard, which will be – whoever first applies, he is entitled to the apartment. So the first one is 1.578. Next, by what act, the government of the Republic of Serbia defines the mutual obligations of members who have competed with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and what happens in case any of them violates any member of the contract? Why is it important that we know which acts and regulations this will be regulated? Because it is not the usual sale contract of real estate with the bank, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia participates in the budget of all of us. I absolutely do not dispute the government of the Republic of Serbia's desire to round up security forces, not dispute a phase of 1.578 to 5.003, so in ten years and up to 15 thousand, I argue that propaganda should cover important issues concerning alienation of property, mutual rights and obligations and the situation that any act will provide for in a contract that future member of the security force will conclude, what if its belonging to the security forces ceases? Why does it matter? Because this isn't the first time we've had ideas like this. It's welcome every time. It's not the first time we have a kind of subsidy when it comes to buying real estate and the intention of getting people home. But it is the first time the whole debate is about having to keep quiet about it because it's great and whoever's asking something, that's public enemy number one. It puts little shadow into doubt the truly quality solutions of this law. Carefully following the amendments, including the one that implies status and unemployed persons or the right to expand, I do not advocate but I am only following, so by the content of the amendments I see that most Members in our Assembly, most members are not clear enough, not good enough and they want to fix it. My intention is to get an answer to the question which the acts address – alienation over real estate, change of employee status, traffic and real estate in Serbia's legal system, whether there are special terms or not, or whether it's all the subject of the contract? If so, how is a contract made between the bank, members of the security forces and the authorities in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Who says? Is the Ministry of Interior for One, the Ministry of Defence for Others, the Serbian Army for the Third, Fourth or Fifth Security Forces for them? This is important if we rightly wish to give hope to the security people that the budget of all of us will allow them to surround themselves. It produces legal consequences and it would be good to leave some beyond any doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36558	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Right on line, Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36559	Just for a little while. Article 8(7): ‘The Ministry of Finance’s responsible shall provide for the conditions under which the sale contract is terminated, as well as the way in which the market price of the remaining value is determined and paid’. What's not clear? It's quite clear which ministry is going to do it. It will determine how it will work. Here, just to tell you, it's no lonely practice. For example, when you enroll the Military Academy, you are obliged to spend a number of years after the military academy ended in the ranks of the Serbian Army. If you don't, you'll pay the contract fine, I can say so, because you haven't spent a certain number of years in the place where you were supposed to be. So it's nothing unusual, it's nothing new. There are very clear rules. The state invested in you through schooling, you're obliged to give it back to her. If you don't get back in time, you'll get your money back. That's right here. The state invested in you by giving you an apartment below any market price. If you don't go back to the time you spend, because she wants you to be there, she doesn't want you to lose your job, she wants you to work, to be in security structures, and if you don't, you'll be required to pay up to a full market price in accordance with the Finance Ministry's decision. What's so controversial about that? It's completely logical. I have other examples, but this is in Article 8 paragraph 7, so I don't think we have anything to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36560	Thank you, Minister Vulin. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36561	If it did, Minister, I wouldn't ask. It doesn't say anything at all. Or are you not listening to the careful question? So, I'm asking you for the nature of the regulations on how it's going to be to break the contract and how traffic is going to be? And that's the pain of all the governments I've ever supported and who I've been an opposition to. You don't have a sublegal act, you don't know what the nature of the contract will be, but you know it's great. That, Minister, is inconclusive. It's a pleasure to comment on a question you haven't heard at all. At this point, you have no idea how the Ministry of Finance... People's MPs say we have a clue. I'll ask the MPs, since I assume they have a clue, but here is the minister's duty to answer me. So, without a sublegal act or without your detailed knowledge of the nature of which is placed in the legal traffic of real estate or the contract is terminated, there can be nothing but arrogance left to read a member of the law that we all read, and that's not what I asked. I asked – how will it be done? And that's the paradigm of this debate. You're claiming to all of us, without knowing how it's gonna be done, that it's gonna be great. I ask: how will it be done, and you repeat to me that it will be great. Which is where you lose sight of me being someone who asks this question because I want it to be great. But it is unworthy to discuss the congregation – it will be arranged by the Ministry of Finance. I didn't ask you that. I asked you: how will they be settled? I asked you – how will you solve any problems arising from the investment of common money for all of us in justifiable investment and rounding up security forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36562	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Minister Vulin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36563	You know, according to this logic, all sublaws need to be abolished, no ministry should make anything, but every law should regulate every decision in detail. Then what are the ministries for? The departments have the right to lay down the rules. The Ministry of Finance will pass the proper rule. It comes from the basic assumption, from the elemental principle that it determines what the market value of the apartment is, it will determine the tax administration, and the difference between this and the market value will regulate the Ministry of Finance by a regulation, in which way there will be a payment of a potential pen that we do not want to happen. But that Article 8 of Section 7 makes it clear and very precise. It doesn't say in this law how the Ministry of Finance will rule. It is known that he has the right to bring the rulebook and he will bring the rulebook. And I don't know how every rulebook would be regulated by law now? Then they shouldn't have rules, they shouldn't have regulations that the government makes, they'd have solved everything by law. It just doesn't work. As you know, it is good for the laws not to be burdened with too many norms, if possible, of course. There are things that are simply being implemented this way, like so far the Serbian Army has had a rule, there's still, on the basis of which the apartments are assigned. Well, you don't think the Army Act provides for how it's done, but it's regulated by the proper rule and it works, as you can see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36564	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36565	Thank you, Minister. In June 2013, this Assembly adopted a Resolution on Legislative Activity, which we voted unanimously. You know, in that resolution, Minister, it says, no matter how much you don't care, that you have a dialogue with the MPs, please check whoever you're texting, is it true what I'm saying? I'm asking you not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36566	The minister listens to you and answers very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36567	Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36568	I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36569	I don't have any problems with you as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36570	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36571	So, the Resolution on Legislative Activity obliges the Serbian government, together with a bill, any law, to submit to the Assembly all proposals for sublegal acts. If he can't do that... To throw: “Did you do it or not? “ Unfortunately, we didn’t. But in 2013, in June of the month, this Assembly together decided that we would do so, according to the Resolution, which we all voted for. The minister was obviously missed by someone to inform about it. Respect for the National Assembly resolution would deny me the right to ask how you'll regulate it, and the Minister's ability to show that he doesn't know that this resolution exists. The resolution obliges the Government to also file sub-legal acts, so that we know that sub-legislative acts will resolve general members and general posts, such as those relating to property trafficking or property alienation, or as regards the termination of the status of security employees. If you had done so, as our congregation together has decided that we will all be working together, then it would be out of every dilemma of how it will be resolved. My hope from this debate is that there will be a next time that ministers, if so far they have not been informed by the work of their associates that such a resolution exists, are free to use this exchange of information about a member who regulates regulations, rules, sublegal acts of any kind, decisions, whatever you call it, where some topic of the law is fully regulated. That's the only reason I asked what kind of regulations, so we came to a general member through the debate, that the Ministry of Finance would make a rule. About what? About how he's gonna end the contracts? What kind of contract is it going to be? What's this sublegal act gonna be? It is not your obligation, Minister, to know this, but it is your obligation to know that the government, or the minister who has proposed this law, is not even directly your jurisdiction, you are here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is fine, absolutely legitimate, but it is the obligation of whoever wrote the law to know it. I don't want to suspect that real estate traffic will be done any other way than by regulations and sublegal acts brought by the Ministry of Finance, but what I want to be informed of is, I think it's good for all of us, the content of this sublegal act. Various ministers have disputed the right of this Assembly to decide to file a sublaw together with the bill's proposals – we do not know what the law will look like at the end. Of course we don't know. No law has entered this congregation, and it has come out in the same form and in the same words as it was when it was entered into the Assembly, so the sublegal acts are made according to how the Government has an idea that, without any changes, they are actually adopted. That is all the resolution requires of the government, once MPs amend the law with amendments, then the sublegal act is changed, the Assembly no longer interferes. So it would be good, not for me and you, for your or my knowledge, but for those for whom this law is passed, to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36572	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36573	As you know, since you're already asking for the nature of the act, the ministry can only pass the rule, it can't pass the regulation, the regulation is passed by the government. So we have no other act to regulate this, but this way. We are here in the law clearly and determined until when the sublaw will be passed, I think that's good and you'll certainly know that, but I still don't see the slightest reason and the slightest need to insist that in every law every sublegal act that you have to enter and introduce. Do you know how many sublegal acts you'd have had if you'd, like, been working on the Law of Military Education? Because, in the Law on Military Education, different rules are adopted, when it comes to schooling, advancement in the ministry, and all that comes out of it. You would have a law of several hundred members who would have been so resolved. If I didn't talk again about what, thinking like this, it would turn out that we don't need the National Assembly, because the government brings, in advance, all the arrangements, to the smallest details, to bring even sublegal acts, so what will these MPs do? How's that gonna work? This is absolutely right, you have the competent state authority, you have what they're going to decide on, and the elements are how they're going to decide, which is the authority and, of course, what is the legal act that's going to come out of this. I think it's completely understandable, all you had to do was read this law and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36574	Thank you, Minister. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36575	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a need to clear up a bit of a misunderstanding, I'd say, which isn't really. It is an attempt to impose one topic that does not exist, a malicious attempt by some MPs, as one minister said yesterday, then another minister today something else, and a third minister something else. In that attempt, in fact, lies all the misery and misery of what remains of our opposition. So, they're caught up in it now as a straw of salvation, and I don't mean Mrs. Comic, I really don't mean her, I mean the one who talked before her today. There is absolutely no place to argue that Zorana Mihajlovic promised one number of built apartments, Nebojsa Stefanovic yesterday another, Vulin today the third. All they need to do is read the law, and I invite them to read the stenographic notes, because it writes well there – there are 5,203 apartments that are planned, which are planned. That's what Zoran said, and that's what Nebojsa said. But in the first phase, these are separate categories, and that's what the law says, it says – 1.578 apartments, taxingly numbered, how, in which way and in which cities. This is one false attempt to impose some topic. I say, it's now a straw of salvation for them, since they have nothing else to catch. Since they have no possible criticism of this law, they are caught up and trying to dissuade the public. I had to call the citizens of Serbia and explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36576	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The right to replica has Gordana Komic [[(Alexander Markovic: Why the replica? I said don't think about her.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36577	People's MPs, seeing as the ruling majority is very upset with the application of the Rules of Procedure on Replication, thank you. For the sake of your peace, here, I leave you without my replica. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36578	You were entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36579	Yes, but you've seen that most people don't even want to listen to a straight line. I don't want to make them sadder than they are right now because of the attitude that nobody should be heard in this assembly except the commendable words about Minister Vulin. When I want to say something ugly about Minister Vulin, I'll say it, but I'm not. When I want to address any MP of the ruling majority, I will, but I'm not. I was talking about a subject that I think is important to those who will sign the contracts, and your lack of patience to listen to 120 seconds of anyone who does not praise the ruling majority is my duty to make sure you don't get upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36580	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Alexandra Tomic, by amendment. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36581	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Vulin, fellow MPs, for the sake of Serbian citizens, we must say that the Ministry of Finance has great experience when it comes to contracts of this type, which follow after the adoption of this law and the adoption of the rule that will be. First, if you take the Ministry of Economy, which calls for competitions for different types of contracts conducted by the Ministry of Finance, this will also implement these contracts. After all, it's been an experience since 2010 when we also had contracts with certain users of state loans, so in 2010, they were designated barracks such as "4. July “turned into housing complexes, which were then young scientists and young professors had the right to apply for these loans and buy. At that time, the square was 1,290 euros with VAT, up to 1,450 euros, so the state made very good money on those loans. The procedure, in fact, in which the members of the armed forces, or members of the security forces, will be able to compete, is precisely a contest that will be called by the Ministry of Finance in co-operation with the Ministry of the Army, so that on the basis of acts of sublegals, which they will bring, and based on the conditions that the competition will have. So the conditions of the competition will be precisely defined and the best transparent way presented to the public. There will be a public competition for all who report will have to meet certain conditions. When these conditions are met, then a list is created just to avoid any possibility of manipulation according to the order of reporting and the fulfilment of these conditions will be concluded with them by the state. That contract even includes the part of the terms under which you take that loan. This means unless it fulfils these specific conditions under the contract, that the state has the right to terminate the contract and know exactly what the consequences are, if you want to leave the state business and not pay off that loan until the end, under what conditions and how it is done. So it's not a novelty, it's not something that the state has never done before, it's what this government is going to deal with, or the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Finance, and it's certainly going to be much more favourable conditions than we've had so far. It is certain that people who are going to apply and get the opportunity to sign such a contract will have great benefits when they buy a 500-euro square apartment without VAT when they get credit, certainly the most favourable conditions, and that is not some news that the state will have except for the news that this square is 500 euros per square square of living space, that apartments are in the square and structure of 32-94 squares, and that depending on the possibility of people who are employed, the heights of the salary and their abilities of spouses with whom they raise these loans, they simply apply to these credit lines, such apartments. It's something that's good and what needs to really be said in public that for the first time, the state has taken this problem seriously, and I think it's the only way to show that we are much, much more effective, more able government that has opened the possibility of really solving the problems of a large number of citizens working in such demanding jobs, when it comes to security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36582	Thank you, colleague Tomic. My colleague Miroslav's got a thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36583	I thank the chairman. Well, I don't know what I was wrong about when I spoke about contradiction in the statements by Minister Stefanovic and Minister Mihajlovic. The minister spoke 1,578 apartments, the minister yesterday about 5,203, I believe that when representatives of the government say that every spoken word has a certain weight. Also, speaking of which, the minister said for a moment that one of us said that such a law was unacceptable. That's not true. So we have repeatedly repeated that we are absolutely for the security force to be allocated funds to build cheap apartments, but the only dilemma was what is a subsidized price if it is the same as the market price offered by a group. I can't get an answer to that question. Further when we talk about locations, Vranje, Kraljevo, Novi Sad, so it's not the same price of squares, you can take, open any ads and you'll see that the apartments in the new building run between 500 and 700 euros in new construction. So, you've offered here in a poll to the MUP 440 euros plus VAT, a subsidized loan. So that's what it's all about all the time, is it really a subsidized price or price, which is what we can say market if someone can build apartments at that price. Furthermore, when we talk about the possibilities of security forces and everyone else to be in charge, to secure money and buy these apartments, you need ministers to keep in mind that they didn't have all the aunts who would give them 244,000 to provide themselves with an apartment...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36584	My colleague Alexic, please don't do this, I won't allow any insult to the minister. It's not right, it's not right. Please continue in the spirit of the amendment, but I won't let you, I'm really giving you a college warning right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36585	I thank the chairman, I was just quoting what everyone was talking about, and I had no intention of insulting anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36586	I don't know which one, I'm really not aware of. Proceed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36587	So it's about allowing these people to be able to solve their living issue by improving the position of people who work in the military. I was just talking about the fact that the best soldier the same ministry has declared the best soldier of the Serbian Army is leaving the army because of the bad conditions. Now, that's a question to imagine the government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, the defence minister, how many people are leaving the military today and why they're leaving the military and what they're planning to do. So if the state doesn't care about its members of security forces in terms of creating normal conditions in those jobs and actions they do and work for this country, then what about other professions? In addition to the need to explain whether it is really a subsidized price, it is very important to say that someone will enter into the realization of such a project and that they will be able to actually buy that apartment, in what way. In the law you did not define whether there would be loans to be some or not favourable for these purposes, and the very important thing is, the minister's law does not define whether the company, or the company formed as an investor in the law, is that the state invests 100%, and that it is possible that the company is also doing so. It doesn't stand anywhere whether it's a company that's 100% state-owned or not. The minister said it would be 100% owned by the Republic of Serbia but it doesn't say anything, and when it doesn't, it doesn't have to, which means an Arab investor can come back, such as "Beograda on Water" and that he owns the company that invests in cheap apartments 70% and the state 30%. So I urge you to define it in the law to prevent any possible abuses, so maybe you don't, when this project is implemented in power, be someone else, so stop others from making you any kind of corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36588	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36589	You can see how a fruitful debate immediately triggers new emotions and new ideas. No one has submitted the amendment, let's say, to what the MP was saying, so if he said put it, but usually it was, the order of sentences is changing, the comma is deleted, but here, you see now through the debate we come up with ideas. Furthermore, all of this here I'm listening to could have been done in the period from 2000 to 2012, everything could have been done and nothing could have been done. You know, in order to improve the position of the military, in order to improve the position of security structures, you have to recover a state like Vukic did with his financial policy and succeeded in it, and then you have to repair the morale, and then you have to return the values that have been expelled from the military, you have to make sure that you get back somehow people who have been expelled from the military, because they were morale and because they were wartime officers and officers, and then you have to think about how to provide someone with a much more favourable apartment, how to provide them with the opportunity to hire their spouse, how to ensure that they feel well in the military and to be there. It is part of a single effort of society, an effort that has not been done for decades, or it has been done planically, so that this same army and these same structures of security will be destroyed, so as not to serve their people and not serve their country. We are now correcting what has been done and I am very proud of it. I hope that we will do it very quickly, of course, incomparably faster than the decades that have passed in which it has certainly not been done and of course we will do it through our country, that it will be owned by our country and of course the state will do it as it subsidises. When it comes to banks, you know we're going to make a public call, and that's what you're told and explained here, and that's how we're going to get financial resources. It is the state that helps and certainly shows great care for its members of security.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36590	Thank you, Minister. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36591	Dear Minister, we have been able to understand from experience that what doesn't say and doesn't stand on paper, while you've been in power for the last six years, here for seven years, is very often not realized, so it's much better when you're standing on paper, because when you're standing on paper, some law, you don't often adhere to the law in different areas, and I'm not saying if it's something that doesn't say. You said a little bit that this debate was fruitful and that she made a new proposal and you said that we didn't submit an amendment to what I was talking about, and I'm going to correct you and tell you that we have submitted an amendment to erase this member, or the possibility that a company of economics can be an investor without clearly defined criteria and relations in a state or potential private investors. If the state is supposed to be an investor, then why start a new company. If you already set it up, tell me if it's going to be 100% state property or at least write it in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36592	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36593	It's not unusual that people here don't even know what they're proposing to their amendments or what they're referring to. Otherwise, the essence of the problem with this amendment isn't the illiteracy we started with, it's the fact that he missed the idea of the law. One who does not know, who likes to talk about "Belgrade on Water", for example how projects of this kind look in the world and which are usually given a percentage of the ownership of one who gives only land, it cannot even know that Serbia went very well on the project. By the way, everything he has to say on that subject, absolutely nothing to do with anything else. It is a shame that someone lives in Serbia in 2018 and does not know that there has been a proper positive correction of interest on loans in dinars, precisely in this country, which has a lot to do with the conditions under which someone will get to the apartment we're talking about today. That this happened also because of a serious and responsible NBS policy, but also because opportunities in the country have changed dramatically for the better. The one who doesn't know these things, he totally ignores them, and he shows that he's not interested in anything but making noise here. But, if there was nothing left unsaid, I would like, every time the word came out and said where Boris Tadic, Vuk Tadic, and Dragan Djilas have been on here since 2006, which is what the party, which is what the company was leading to, to determine what we said in truth today, and what some here have lied about as they only do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36594	The word is Radoslav Milojic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36595	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't really know what that disdain from across the street is, but no problem, we're used to it. I also said that when Minister Mihajlovic was there, and I am sorry that she has not been here for two days, but she probably has some urgent obligations, that we have nothing against it, and we support that members of the Serbian Army who do not have a roof over their heads, be assured of it. Of course, defeating the fact that 18,900 members of the Serbian Army report to this competition, with no roof over their heads, according to estimates and reports of 30,000 members of the Serbian Army, the MUP or generally people dealing with the security sector. It's a devastating piece of information and it's a devastating fact. Yes, we are interested, you said you would not, in fact you said that you would build 15,078 apartments in total, and then the minister said that 1,578 apartments would be built first, and then Minister Stefanovic also said that they would be built at the first stage of not 1,578 but 5,200 apartments. What exactly is this information? I'm not asking that for myself, but the DS is asking this question because of all the members who are employed in the security sector and hope that this legal solution will get a roof over their heads, so that they can live and do their jobs smoothly. However, in order for someone to have to single out 500 euros per square, they cannot do so with an average salary of 30,000 dinars. We can see the complete incompatibility between the living members, first of all the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defense, with this law? On the other hand, as members of the ministry and we citizens believe that it will be so, when for six and a half years, faster, better, stronger policies, we are waiting for some improvement that is not there. In 2014, we also had promises from the highest places, not by ministers, but by the prime minister that apartments would be built for 380 euros per square cent. That's not gonna happen. Then we also had a promise from the resolution minister that from Belgrade to Novi Sad the train will arrive in less than half an hour, and there is nothing. About how members of the ministry live above all, and above all, all people employed in the security sector, says the latest data that Srdjan Ristic, Ginis's recorder, is leaving the military because of the difficult material and financial situation. It's the ministers what's devastating. We are here saying that 72% of the members who left the Army of Serbia do so on a personal request and that is devastating. How are you going to talk to someone who has an average profit of 30,000 dinars, not to talk about those who are civilians, who work in the security sector, especially the Ministry of Defense, and who have an average profit of 23,000 dinars, how will they single out 40,000 euros for an 80-square apartment? You said you couldn't do it before this thing, and we don't believe you'd do it, but we hope for members of the security sector that you will, because DS did something wrong while she was running power and serving the citizens from 2007 to 2012. Why didn't we do it? We didn't, because we had to, first of all, get back what you're in charge of and correct what you've ruined in the '90s. If you forget, if you have a short memory, I will remind you that the salary was 30 euros and in 2000 when the DS came to power in a broad coalition, and we left the average salary of 300 euros, so ten times more. We have returned the old foreign currency savings, 13 pensions, that we have returned to the citizens of Serbia the 12 children's supplements that you have remained in debt, that we have returned Telekom, that we have abolished visas, that we have returned the country to the UN, that we had to do it all because of your harmful authority when you were doing it in the '90s. The question is what we're going to find in two years when we beat you in the election and what we're going to have to return to the time ahead. You're in charge of the whole country so no one can deal with those debt choices. In six-and-a-half years of your authority, you owe the state 10 billion euros. How the members of the security sector believe you, when you said you weren't going to raise the price of electricity, and you raised it. When you said you wouldn't take pensions from the citizens, you took pensions, that you wouldn't cut wages and journals, and you'd cut salaries and journals. You said you wouldn't touch the subsidies for agriculture. The subsidies for agriculture at the time, as you say, were 14,000 dinars, and now the subsidies for agriculture were four thousand dinars, but you forgot that even at that time, when the subsidy for agriculture was 14,000 dinars, the euro was 80, and a litre of fuel was also 80. Now for four thousand dinars, our farmer has a 118 euro and a 150 dinar fuel price. It is a reality in Serbia that citizens are hard to live and make ends meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36596	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36597	Thank you, Chairman. A member of 107 - The Dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. You could have really had a duty to prevent these qualifications. I can understand that you couldn't predict everything, but from the gentleman in question it's always to expect this kind of behavior. You know what, it's extremely inappropriate for you to worry about how and at what cost the housing issue of members of the Serbian Army will be resolved by someone who remains, God forbid, in power, and he and his minister, by 2016, would have solved the problem 100%. But by not having any of the only members of the Serbian Army today, the army wouldn't exist at all. It was a methodology that they wanted to solve this problem. There's no need to waste time here and list what we're supposed to do behind them to fix and correct. It's done, it's obvious, and that's what bothers them, and it's normal to bother someone who thought it was a military exercise by coordinating with the Minister of Buying 40 million Homes of the Serbian Army, then selling it for 24, and 16 million invests in joint construction on Miljakovec, but not for apartments for the military, but for direct sales from which they make profits. Therefore, you are obliged to sanction this and, in the future, to still, when you see which direction the discussion leads, cut it off and prevent it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36598	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Jorge Komlenski: No. Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36599	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106 when it comes to agendas. The previous speaker came out, largely beyond the agenda, speaking of certain things devastating. I agree, there's a lot that's devastating when it comes to the defence sector. It is devastating that the most honorable Serbian officers at the time of Dragan Sutanovac's ministry, his boss, were packed in casamats around the world and across Serbia. It's devastating that you've brought their morale down on the lowest branches. It is devastating that you have disbanded the most exclusive units of the Serb army. It's also devastating that you destroyed four hundred armored vehicles. It's also devastating that you destroyed 200 cowboy tubes. It's also devastating that you destroyed 23,000 guns. It's also devastating that you've destroyed 9,000 missile systems and sold them into devastation. It's also devastating that you fired 200,000 people. It's also devastating that the Minister of Agriculture was arrested. There are a lot of devastating things, but I'm still asking you to put the debate back on the subject we're talking about today. Thank you. I don't want to make a statement in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36600	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36601	Thank you, Chairman. I am advocating Article 108, which says: “The President is taking care of the order at the meeting of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman who is holding the session at that time. ” And my colleagues pointed to a violation of the members of this Rules of Procedure. Not only have we heard about the subsidies for agriculture and the most different topics that we could hear in our communication on the amendment, but we have already come to those stages that we have been discussing for the next week, and, now, in the debate in particular, we have something that you have to point out, because in the last two weeks you have been able to hear, and that's twisting facts, and that's bringing confusion to our citizens, or to the public. There's always talk about how many apartments he said which minister and whether it's a thousand and some apartments or five thousand apartments. I think we've already absorbed so far what number of apartments we're talking about. I ask you not to allow any further such injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36602	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Jelena Žarić Kovacevic: No. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36603	Thank you, Chairman. My esteemed colleague Marijan Risticevic presented a bill on the machinations of a previous speaker who had just spoken here and about the value of his machinations in Smederjevska Palanca amounted to about 900 apartments for members of the Serbian Army or police. He was just here talking about 30,000 troops with no roof over their heads. Well, if it wasn't for his machinations, it would have been 900 less. Had it not been for Tadic, Pajtic and Djilas to exercise power, probably no member would have been without a roof over his head, but, my God. He mentioned a few things here earlier, but only for the sake of Serbian citizens must a few things be pointed out. The average salary in Serbia is higher in euros today than it was during your rule. Inflation in Serbia is far more stable today than it was at the time of your government. Loans in dinars are far more favourable than at the time of your government, but unemployment is at the lowest historical level, at the lowest level. He doesn't know that the previous speaker, as he doesn't know, among other things, and what amendment he was talking about earlier. I call on him to say right now what amendment did he answer, and what is the text of the amendment he was talking about without looking at it now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36604	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. (Radoslav Milojic: May I take it? I was asked by a man. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36605	Thank you. You know, it's really hard to listen to the same attacks that you always have to explain to the same numbers that are simply impartial and can't lie. The average salary of a professional soldier, when we took responsibility for managing this country in 2012, was 33.308 dinars, and today it is 39.191 dinar. Is that enough? It's not. Is it more than they had? Yes, it is. Are we less in charge? We did. Are we in charge of wages? We're not in debt. We are not in debt, as they said at the government session, you have stenographic notes, when Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic says to them: "Let's not, people, take out a pension loan, we will destroy the state," they say, "Shut up, what do you know? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Of course they're destroying the state and of course they're doing it. Are there more uniforms? There is. Is there more food? There is. Is there more guns? There is. Are they better paid? They did. Is that enough? No, we keep working. You're saying that 19,000 people were looking for an apartment. Well, those people were born yesterday? Now they're born and now they don't have an apartment, and they've had an apartment for 12 years during DOS government, and now they don't have an apartment? Well, then why didn't you solve their housing issue? Why didn't you do something to get those 19,000 people, or how many people you say there are, to get a housing question like this? Don't brag about Stepanović. Look at the prices in Stepi Stepanovic, and look at what we're offering? See how much they paid for their square in Stepa Stepanovic and ask people who live there what kind of problems they have – why are they not fitted with the appropriate sewerage, why until today their signalling is not finished, why do they not have adequate connections to this day? That's what you ask them and ask them how much they paid for that square, and here's how much they're going to pay? So, there's a difference, and I'm proud of that difference, and every time we're going to deny what we're hearing with numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36606	Thank you, Minister. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36607	Mr. Minister, we have submitted this amendment because we feel it is necessary in this article in a second position to erase the possibility of urgent adoption of all other laws that are related to this law, because it simply would not make sense until certain laws have been amended. In fact, Minister Stefanovic answered my question yesterday about resolving housing issues for the homeless and members of their families, as many of them did not welcome to live without waiting for their apartment, how it will be resolved for the children of fallen fighters, for the disabled of the last wars. He said that a particular fund would be established from which they would be co-financed, at least that's how I understood my colleagues, the apartments through this project of building cheap apartments. It is simply not possible, Mr. Minister, until the amendment of the Public Property Act, which is disastrous, was brought by this yellow Dossow government in 2011. We were against that law at the time and his changes were in 2013. I would like, if you are able now, or during this debate, to answer me, since according to this Law on Public Property, there are no facilities owned by the Serbian Army, or the Ministry, what are your findings regarding the Kasarna "Radomir Putnik" in Kragujevac and the possibility of compensating the property with the city's administration of the town of Kragujevac, which water is incompetent Radomir Nikolic, but just for reasons, for example, to build apartments from that property for the military homeless? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36608	Thank you. Radoslav Milojic, according to this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36609	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, it's important, once again, that the members of the security sector secure a roof over their heads, but it's important how they live and under what conditions they work. It is a completely incorrect statement, I must also do it because of the citizens of Serbia, that in 2010, he did not have one plane in the Serbian Army. It was between 25 and 35 planes, both Eagle and G4, and five MiGs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36610	My colleague Milojic, did you listen to colleague Natasu Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36612	Please comment on her amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36613	Mr. Chairman, I don't understand why you're nervous. I understand why Minister Vulin is nervous, because we see that Vucic also denied his statement yesterday regarding our path to the EU. So I understand his anxiety, but I don't understand your anxiety. I'm talking about how members of the security sector are living. I know it's easy for you to be in power, but I'm talking about people who don't have a roof over their heads. I'm talking about people who work for 30,000 dinars. I'm talking about people where Giniz's recordman left the army, on a personal request, because of a difficult material situation. And if that's not enough for you, fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36614	That's what Minister Vulin told you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. ) You can't replica, you can just by amendment He didn't mention you, colleague Milojicic. [[Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I don't want the amendment, I want the replica. A completely wrong interpretation of my amendment.)]] I can do it by amendment, but first, Minister Vulin has a word for it. Minister, you have your word. [[Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I'm looking for a replica, let's not play here.)]] Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. Minister, first I'll take the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36615	As the chairman says, I apologize, I am not the authority here. As the president says, I have to listen to it. Thank you. So, right, we're talking here, we're just not talking about the law, that's right, because the law is obviously no one's interesting, or a very small number, and thank you for the exceptions to which this law is interesting. Right, we're talking about people who had far less wages at DOS time. Yeah, we're talking about people who didn't have the slightest hope of getting rid of their housing issues at the time of DOS government. Yeah, we're talking about people who didn't have uniforms, we're talking about people whose material position was far lower. Yeah, we're talking about people who because of their attitude, because of their patriotism were expelled from the Army. Yeah, we're talking about these people. We're talking about people who were fired for it. We're talking about people who didn't have any hope. Now we're talking about people the state takes care of again, which the state is now taking care of again, and the real system, as it used to be. You'll remember the system that every civilian envied. Once you enter the Army, until the end of your working life, and then, someone takes care of you and your family. It's effectively destroyed. We're returning it now. We are now returning the system that takes care of people. Yeah, we're talking about people. I'm sorry that there's no talking about the law here, I'm sorry that there's no talking about solutions, I'm sorry that this is only used for, if it's possible for a political reckoning, and that's all that can be done, but the numbers are inexcusable again. Salaries are bigger than when they were. Is that enough? It's not. Is it gonna get better? It will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36616	Thank you, Minister. Natasa Jovanovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36617	Mr. Marinkovic, I'm reporting under Article 27. You know, while you're presidencies, you still have to make sure that when the debate on amendments is that the session has some normal flow, let's say it's there at this point, but it has some logic. If Mr. Milojcic answers my amendment, it must make sense. He can talk under various conditions, write, but then he needs to know if he's up to my story, that Dragan Sutanovac has just left these people, the military homeless without apartments. When the issue was to be resolved and the compensation with the property of the town of Kragujevac was to be made, this is where Veroljub Stevanović sits, so let him confirm, which as the mayor of Kragujevac repeatedly urged Sutanovac to do so, we got the information, I insisted then, in doing so, all Serbian radicals supported me, to resolve it through a way to make that exchange. We have a barracks that is so valuable that the town of Kragujevac pays for it to be done, and of that money, the Serbian Army builds apartments for the homeless. Today these people live unconditionally, when you come to Kragujevac you can see it, on Daničić Street, in the barracks, where famous Serbian officers are placed. So many of them were with high rank and members of their families. I don't want to mention their names, even though I know members of those families. I've visited them many times. They came with small children, today these children are conditioned intellectuals. So, take the bills and don't tell me then that I didn't, I didn't mean anything by it, I didn't want to comment or to say, I speak in the language of arguments and facts as well as any Serbian radical, and I wanted to comment in such a way that he misread my presentation and responded precisely to the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, fellow Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36618	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I know you have good intentions. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. Thank you very much. Radoslav Milojic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36619	Thank you. It is clear to all people involved in the security sector that there are barracks, there are facilities that are of strategic interest to the Serbian Army and to the non-sale state of Serbia. So, I wouldn't really take any more of that time. Anyone who deals, especially the people at the General Staff who do these things, that's not the minister's business, and the General Staff gives me an assessment of whether it's for sale or not. There are commissions dealing with this and there are things and facilities and barracks that are of strategic interest to the Serbian Army and that cannot be sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36620	Thank you. Natasa Jovanovic, as amended. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. He didn't mention you, I can't, I don't have any real basis for giving you a replica. With all due respect, here's a colleague and gone, you have no one to replicate to. Unfortunately. Thank you. George Komlensky, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36621	I thank the chairman. Article 106 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. You've allowed someone here to talk about barracks that matter, priority and everything else. One of the most important barracks is the barracks in Obrenovac, which Mr. Sutanovac and the gentlemen who ruled at the time, took the Army out for a military exercise. It's a barracks containing 12 amphibiouss. They closed the barracks, and the Obrenovci died dramatically more in the floods in 2014 than that had to happen. With one single proper amphibious, half of the Obrenovac has been evacuated. Imagine they didn't shut down a barracks in Obrenovac which was a strategic engineering unit in Obrenovac, precisely because someone once made sure something like this could happen. Of the 12 amphibious who were correct, one survived in Serbia their power and that one did much for Obrenovac. How much better for Obrenovac if there was a barracks, if there were 12 amphibiouss, if there was an engineering unit left, and those bastards never thought about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36622	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Jorge Komlenski: No. No, no, no, The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Dr Danica Bukvic and Snezana Paunovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36623	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2(2). The draft law, which is on the agenda, and the amendment, reads - all procedures under this law are carried out by an urgent or accelerated procedure. The amendment shall be subject to legal and technical regulation. I would once again point out the role, importance and responsibility of the work that security forces perform and their importance for the security of the entire state. Unfortunately, the largest number of state-run officials, who have not solved the housing issue, is among the security forces. It is commendable that the government and the resolute ministry have recognised the importance of solving this problem. Therefore, it is entirely justified that this law enters into force as soon as possible in order to immediately begin the implementation of this project. What is also significant is the fact that the realisation of this project will involve the domestic construction industry, as the provisions of the law determine the obligation of domestic business operators to participate, thus increasing the number of employees in this activity. As my colleagues have already pointed out, it would be good to resolve the housing issue in a similar way, especially young ones, in other areas. The SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day, as well as other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36624	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36625	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, you were absolutely right when you said the least talk about the law was here. I am simply a phenomenal reminder that perhaps we should all consider once more the amendment of a respected fellow SRS that has been being flaunted for 45 minutes. I am responsibly saying that none of the opposition MPs have heard a amendment spoken of by a colleague of the radical party, but it was a good platform to humiliate this law, this government and everything that's done from a distance that we shouldn't have a moral right. As counterpart Danica said, we simply submitted an amendment which is such a legal-technical editorial in the sense that... You're right, and the explanation has come to the conclusion that all procedures under this law are considered urgent. Our intervention may not have been established, but I do still think I should be in Article 2. Paragraph 2 of the Bill of Law is amended and all procedures carried out under this law are carried out by an urgent or accelerated procedure. I've been precisely defined, and I understand from your exposure that urgency is consistent with the necessity that there's no need for controversy here. Anyway, thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36626	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, and for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 2 of this law. To be clear, the SRS has no objection to the granting of apartments to security forces under authorized conditions. A team before we know what the security situation in our environment is, and we see things happening in the world and that this situation is going to be even harder and worse. Of course, our parliamentary group has submitted a large number of amendments, because we want to make this law, which has one good idea, even better. What bothers me personally, which bothers me most, is that both the government representatives and representatives of the ruling majority want to show that this law is something revolutionary, something that has never been seen before. This may be revolutionary when it comes to a regime that ruled before the advanced regime, because we know that DS didn't take care of this, even on the contrary, they all worked to destroy the military and security forces. However, one forgets one fact, one exact fact we all know, which is that flats used to be shared for free. So you didn't suggest anything revolutionary. The flats used to be allocated free of charge and not only to security forces, but also to ordinary workers, porters, cleaners, etc. What's more, let's just say, sometimes the members of the security force wrote complaints about the fact that the apartment they got for free wasn't painted at their will, and today, if something like that happened, if they gave someone an apartment without a wall and a hole in the ceiling, they'd jump out of luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36628	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Are you answering your word, colleague Jojic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36629	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this bill is absolutely necessary and that it should be fair. What has been known in the history of the security service since 1945, then here, is that members of the security service have had major problems when it comes to housing and housing problems. At the time, when I came to the service, I was a tenant and I know what it's like to be in the status of tenants. There's blackmail, there's harassment, there's severe consequences for both children and those members who worked and where their wives worked. What I notice, but there was no idea that this bill included the idea of forming housing cooperatives in the districts and in the areas of police administrations. Imagine when the Spanish Interior Secretariat of Pančeva founded a housing cooperative in 2001 and in one year 30 housing problems were solved, in just one year 30 members of the Home Office. What should be taken into account is that members of the internal affairs should be equally represented. Now I don't understand why it only went from five police departments. We have 27 police departments, and only five police departments and administrative districts are covered by this law. Therefore, all police administrations should have a level playing field in terms of unemployment, housing problems for members of the security service, and thus it would be more realistic to address these issues on housing issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36630	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Rose Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36631	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 2. I have tabled an amendment to add the following text in the third position:'realise by': 'after certain stages'. I have submitted this amendment to specify this article, and your argument says otherwise – that the article is precise enough and that it should not be changed, which, of course, I would not agree with. We have heard several times these days that the first part of the first phase of building 1,578 apartments, that the price per square metre will be 500 euros, that the apartments that will be built are different structures and squares. Let's take, for example, a two-bedroom apartment, a 27-square area. Its price should be up to 27,000 euros. The basic question is, how will a security officer get the funds to buy this apartment? It's unlikely that he has that money, so he'll have to apply for a loan. Here we come to a series of questions, starting with credit processing, interest rates, then, the way security forces will apply. Are they going to be able, it's a big question, because are they creditworthy? Then, what are the conditions of lending, for how many years will security forces be able to raise credit, with which banks and whether any participation is required? In the end, I would ask the question - how old is the category affected, given that they cannot compete on the same conditions as those who are 30 and 60 years old and whether members of the army who have been denied 6% of the gross salary for the housing fund, does this affect the price of buying this apartment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36632	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's a colleague of LJubenović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36633	Thank you. The amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to Article 2 paragraph 3 replaces "phase" with the word "etapas". Article 2 has established public interest, implementation of the project, as well as urgency in the procedures provided for by this law and has defined that the project will be implemented at stages. Taking part in the debate, Mr Stefanovic spoke in the National Assembly that rankings of interested people would be based on the order of applications. We believe it is very important to consider in the ranking that persons are interested in these apartments former members of the security forces that have obtained the pension right in one of the state bodies we are talking about today, in the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Military, the MUP, the BIA and the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Criminal Sanctions, are they persons who participated in the war? The fact is that a large number of security forces have retired and no housing issue has been resolved. It is not proud of this country that some of its own have had to fight before the courts for their rights to resolve the housing issue, which has been the case for years, and that huge court costs are being incurred. There are dozens of such cases in Leskovac. Such situations are inadmissible because they are people who have fought for this country, and such people would have to be seen in resolving housing issues under more favourable conditions, at least by having priority and resolving their housing issues in the first phase of project realization. If the state of Serbia claims this is of general interest, then it should be worth those who fought for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36634	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bones, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36635	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the implementation of the housing project for members of security forces means several effects on improving business in the Republic of Serbia. First, the employment of the construction industry and building operations in full capacity, which includes both new jobs and new jobs. Secondly, units of local self-government will have a greater coverage of property tax, which implies only an increase in budgets. This includes planning new investments in local self-government and new investment opportunities in infrastructure. Thirdly, the realization of such major projects will also have consequences for the operations of banks, which will be in a position to enter a new competition, and I believe that the consequences will be a reduction of real interest rates, which will benefit other actions to be charged on the financial market under more favourable conditions. Fourthly, insurance companies will also have the opportunity to secure all these apartments under more favourable conditions for the insurance user. Fifthly, furniture manufacturers, white techniques etc. will have the opportunity to be participants in the realisation of this project. Not to mention, the realization of this project, and hopefully similar projects in the future, will carry a chain action and a reaction to the entire economy of our country, and that will be the real point of these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36636	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has Milija Miletic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36637	I would support this amendment, Mr. Kostic, because I think it is really in place, because this kind of amendment and law will give us a great opportunity to develop undeveloped areas, by hiring people who live in the country, who are construction workers, and I think we really need to support it. Also, as a folk MP here in the Serbian Parliament, I would welcome and congratulate all people on the glory of St. Nicholas, whom the whole of Serbia celebrates, half of us go to glory and half of us celebrate, because as Orthodox and Serbian citizens, we want to support and support this law here in the Assembly, and to congratulate all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36638	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic and Katarina Rakic, with a correction. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled this amendment in front of the SNS parliamentary group because we wanted to underline the same important aspect that the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognized, which concerns the wider context of support for our country's growth and development. Thus, in addition to the unequivocally contributing to the resolution of one important life problem to all those members of the security force, who have not resolved their housing issue, the government considers, and as a parliamentary group, we agree, that it contributes to Serbia's development in a broader sense, primarily through the contribution of GDP growth in construction. Why does it matter? We see that we're recording extraordinary results today. At the quarterly level, growth was recorded at 4.5%, so better than any projection predicted. Among other things, relevant institutions say it is due to increased activity in the construction sector. We expect, ladies and gentlemen, this positive contribution to continue, among other things, and thanks to the activities that will arise after the adoption of this law. I am taking the opportunity to thank the proposing representative, not only for the adoption of the amendments and not just for the fact that we share this vision, but also for the fact that we create good results for our country by working on them jointly, including by adopting excellent legal solutions such as this. These good results, unfortunately, today are not only seen in Serbia by those who explicitly do not want to see it. I mean, of course, the few, but today the loud members of the various yellow company rettels, who mentioned some world records, and tried to become world records only after the devastation of what unfortunately was once entrusted to them in this country. Since we are being threatened to be replaced in 2020, and in the end they only functioned through certain sports societies and football clubs, let me tell you, Mr. Minister, the moment you see that an association of citizens named, for example, "canoe United" has been run in Serbia's elections, and then it will never come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36640	Thank you, colleague Orlic. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36641	Thank you. The esteemed ministers representatives of the government, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens, the SRS is a political organisation that keeps its promises to its programme, and how many times have we heard what the SNS programme is. As an example, let me tell you what the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, spoke about this topic six months ago. Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic announced that resolving the issue of state-owned housing for members of Serbia's military, police, as well as the BIA could begin this year in six Serbian cities, with the average price of squares being around 500 euros. At a press conference after the first meeting of the apartment commission, Vukic said that about 2,000 people in the MUP were without an apartment, about 14,000 in the Serbian Army and about 1,500 people in the BIA, and that the state housing programme will include those working in prisons. He adds that these are rough estimates, so I repeat, six months ago he said they were rough estimates and that the government would come out with concrete data by the end of January. The president said the state's participation will be 250m euros to build about two million square meters. He added that there will probably be clauses that 10 years of apartment cannot be placed on the market or that the buyer has an obligation to work in these systems for 15 years. In any case, we're discussing the law today, and the sublaw will regulate a lot. As he explained, the state housing project would employ our workers, so he would hire our workers, that's a deal for those who talked here about some set-up jobs for famous performers, and that would increase GDP. If all preparations are completed in time, the first shovels will be able to be cast in 2018, Vucic said. As we see today, this project is being legally formed today and going towards its realization, because SNS and Aleksandar Vukic keep their word. In voting day, I will support this package of laws, and I want the police, the military and all the security structures to come under such favourable conditions, because there are currently no better ones, to the roof over the head.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36642	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36643	Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and I would, for the sake of the public and citizens who are monitoring the transmission, reminding that Article 2 actually says that the implementation of the project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia and that the project is implemented in phases. Some lawmakers in these two days have mentioned in the discussion that there are other profiles employed in state institutions that need to resolve housing issues such as doctors, educational workers. I even see reactions to this law, certain unions of education have also referred such a suggestion to the government. Already in the first day of the debate in the opening exhibition, the strategic government of Serbia is already said to have a number of priorities, that at the moment because of the decades-long neglect of the Ministry of Defence and Security is a priority and that this model, through the construction of these apartments, will practically become a routine, functionally efficient model. As such, it will later develop and expand into other spheres. So let's liven up this part and other spheres and other profiles will be covered. Then we have one more, and today we have witnessed certain messengers who are telling the lie. They speak falsely about the disagreement of statements in the number of apartments, which Minister Mihajlovic presented, so Nebojsa Stefanovic is presented to Minister Vulin. My colleague Aleksandar Markovic mentioned it, only they can't have a straw of salvation to help. They can't even have a balvana of salvation to help them. These are lies and the lies they make that I suppose would put a little doubt ahead of the MPs that Minister Stefanovic thought of what Minister Mihajlovic was saying. The other thing, and I think it's more important to them, that they bring into doubt the viewers who don't follow the whole transmission, that we now have three ministers who defend the laws, and they say different things. It is their effect, because the same thing Zorana Mihajlovic said and the same thing Nebojsa Stefanovic can easily be checked through the rock notes. That it is the first phase of a project that should cover 5,000 apartments, and that at this point the first step of that first phase is in six cities of 1578 apartments. So, absolutely in the stenogram notes, you can verify that it's true. Such attacks and the untruths of individual MPs, to whom Minister Vulin has been doing a great job, repeat the same thing these days. They were told the same thing yesterday and the day before, if they had done this in years of power, it wouldn't have been like this. They were even told that something the previous governments had not solved had now taken this government to solve. And the citizens are witnesses, the MP is talking about the height of the salary, three times today, what is the salary, 30,000. Minister Vulin quotes it's a lie and quotes what the salary is. That's what they are for, and that's why I agree, they should be let to talk, but they should always be repeated, countless times on every untrue again, because that's the only way they will, not because of the citizens, but because of the citizens, and at the very end of the line, see both the rise of employment and the government's efforts and efficiency, etc. The evaluation of the work is best shown in the election. And that's what we told them, but it doesn't help them, so they came to a censorship below 2% in the Belgrade elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36644	Thank you. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36645	I thank the chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, amendment to Article 2. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, I want to further define the quality of the bill. The benefit that will be achieved by applying the proposed law is multiple. First and foremost, members of the military and police will resolve their burning, existential, residential issue and will be able to carry out their professional duties more easily because they have one private concern less, which can certainly burden a man. The second essential item that will indirectly initiate the application of this law is definitely the launch of the domestic construction industry, which means the entire chain. Production of construction material is one of them. To build a residential building, a large amount of material needs to be spent. To produce this material, concrete bases need to be launched and we can't do it without machine production. The number of people engaged in the housing process is huge. Therefore, not only will this law allow about 1600 security forces to resolve their housing status, but it will allow a far greater number of people to engage in work and to provide their work with the existence and better life for themselves, as well as for their family members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36646	Thank you. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36647	I thank you, the chairman, the honourable ministers, fellow MPs. The proof that this Serbian government is concerned about the housing issue of members of the security service is not only the adoption of a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project, we are also witnessing that the government is, i.e. The Ministry of Defence, from January 2017 to April 2018, allocated 234 keys to the apartment of members of the Serbian Army, i.e. The Department of Defense. In April this year was the last award of 19 apartments, in Belgrade, Zrenjanin, Bačka Topoli, Pancheva and Kruševec. In previous sections of the apartment, too, seats have been represented throughout our Serbia. Besides, the Social Security Fund of Military Insurance has settled the housing issue for another 150 of our military pensioners. I am sure this positive practice will continue in the future, regardless of the 1,578 apartments that will start construction this year under special conditions, worth 64m euros. The housing and material position of security personnel is just another task in a series that the Serbian government is successfully solving, to the satisfaction of all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36648	The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dusko Tarbuk, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Comrade Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, proposed an amendment in Article 2. The draft law with special conditions for the implementation of housing projects for members of security forces, article 4, which reads: "The implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of local self-government." The adoption of a special law on the implementation of this project will unify the conditions and procedures under which the projects will begin, since conditions, the way and the realisation will begin in different locations at the same time. Also, the adoption of a special law will speed up the procedures for the construction and procurement of public procurement, the land expropriation process. The realisation of the project is now predicted in six cities, namely Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljevno and Vranje. It is important to note that the implementation of the project will lead to a rise in GDP in the area of construction, as well as a rise in VAT revenues on various basiss of domestic construction industry employment and employment growth, since the provisions of this bill set out the obligation of domestic economic operators to participate. The rise in income from property taxes has a direct impact on the development and efficiency of local self-government, thereby improving the standard of living of citizens within units of local self-government. In voting day, I call on my esteemed and esteemed colleagues to support this excellent law, of course, if they have strength and will, and my amendment. I thank all my colleagues who voted in favour of my amendment last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36650	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Mladen Lukic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36651	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the implementation of this project enables the development of an entire spectrum of work that is related to housing, increased employment, as well as the work of GDP. In this way, it will be possible to correct the standard of living of people who do hard and responsible work for our country and that members of the security forces feel that the state cares for them, and that they can proudly rise to their uniforms. It also enables security forces to plan their education and to advance in the ministry, as well as not to be tempted to leave the service because of unresolved life issues. All this shows that President Aleksandar Vukic's policy is wise, responsible and realistic, since every announcement of a new project is the result of a fundamental research, which is based on facts, so these measures for security forces announced at the end of the year are the result of a good estimate that funds have been provided for this project. The fact that this project has not been introduced earlier is evidence of firm fiscal discipline and concerns that every dinar that the state invests is realistic and has its own cover. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36652	Thanks, buddy. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36653	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the area of security is an important segment and if we view it as part of the common state policy, the development of this segment will create assumptions for the economic, social, political, therefore, overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The importance and responsibility of the job of security forces must not be questioned. On the contrary, it is very important for the security of the entire state, and on the other hand, we have a situation that many unresolved housing needs are among them. The decision to solve this problem systemically is also a decision to contribute GDP growth in the area of construction, employment growth, employment of the domestic construction industry, an increase in income from property taxes, which affects the overall development of the Republic of Serbia at the end of the line. The effects expected from the adoption of this proposal, i.e. the application of this law, are exclusively positive, and the most important ones are those relating to the citizens of Serbia. These effects mean new apartments in Nis, Vranja, Kraljevci, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Novi Sad for security forces, so it is too high to talk about the importance of passing this law. The Ministry sent a questionnaire to all units of local self-government to state the potential need for housing, but also the willingness and opportunity to participate in such a project. I would also like to express my satisfaction that the city of Nis is one of the first cities in which apartments will be built. In Nis, 188 apartments will be built and it is only the first phase of the project. So now it's working on drawing up planning and urban documentation, preparation has been adopted and implementation of this first phase of the project is under way. Of course, such a bill deserves absolute support from the MPs and I and this amendment are going in that direction to support the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36654	Thank you. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36655	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, for the sake of faster and more efficient realization of objects that represent a general interest, recognising the importance of addressing the housing needs of security forces and difficulties that can occur in realisation itself, the Monitoring Task Force has been educated, as building apartments for security forces is one of the key measures to improve the material position of those who risk the most to feel safe in Serbia. The government takes care of a priority in our society. According to the results conducted by the National Security Council Office, 18,950 security forces showed interest in buying an apartment whose price will not exceed 500 euros per metre square and 1,462 retired persons of the military and defence ministry. Serbia is fully prepared to defend its present and future on the principles of free spirit and tradition, as did previous generations. The Serbian government, in co-operation with the Kosovo and Metohija Office, has allocated thousands of apartments and houses in recent years, as many packages of building materials for building and adapting houses, which is also the best message Serbia has for us and our people in Kosovo and Metohija. One of the important projects of our government is the care of young couples, the socially endangered population and those who have been expelled from the province. The "Sun Valley" project aims to enable 1,500 people who had to leave their hearths and build 300 apartments, escorting facilities and infrastructure. By realising the project, we create and develop the Republic of Serbia in all areas of society, so I propose in Article 2. The bill to add the 4th position, which reads: "The implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the judiciary." The promotion, efficiency and quality of work through the creation of an incentive working environment, with the aim of achieving the best results, remains a priority for our society in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36656	Thank you, colleague Compirovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:15 p.m. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36658	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in order to add Article 4, which refers to digitisation. I believe that the bill is for all respects and that it needs to be supported to every extent, because the proposed law shows the readiness, determination and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to show his attitude towards the security services, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. What I would especially like to point out is that digitisation is present in all spheres of society, even in this case, in the case of construction. Let me remind you that there is a united procedure where this is clearly defined, where the application itself reduces time and simplifys the process of collecting the necessary documentation. I believe and I am sure that the representatives of the ministry and the Ministry of Defence and the defence will apply the situation as a united procedure that is also required, I already believe that this is also in the draft, the submission of applications for competition documents by electronic means and thereby shorten the time and allow the competition to be applied as easily and as best as possible. What I would still like to say, and then to conclude, is that we certainly need to support this law in the voting day. I call on all MPs to support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36659	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36660	I would like to commend the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, proposed by the law on the construction of favourable apartments, included not only active, but also retired military persons. I would especially like to point out that several thousand military pensioners living in Serbia who served military service in the newly established countries in the former Yugoslavia until the beginning of the wartime acts of the 1990s. It is thousands of military pensioners and their families who live for 25 years and more in the status of tenants, in barracks, in various hostels, in various tailored accommodations that are not a permanent solution. These are ex-military individuals who have allocated significant funds from their gross personal income for decades, living in difficult conditions, and finally the time has come for this proposed law on the construction of favourable apartments for security forces to resolve their issue. So it's about 20,000 apartments and I think it's one great thing and that finally this government has taken responsibility to solve this issue. What I particularly want to point out is also very important that in the shortest time period, the government brings in a new Lex specialis, i.e. that the Assembly adopts a new law that includes other vulnerable categories. First of all, it's about wartime wartime people with disabilities. It's about families of fallen fighters. So, these are the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia, and I believe that this government will also very quickly include these categories of citizens, as well as other categories of citizens, because I repeat and often point out that the issue of housing is one of the key issues of every man, every family, and it is very important that we try to solve that one of the key problems besides employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36661	Thank you, colleague Linta. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36662	The respected chairman, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, relying on the law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces on Article 2. The first phase of the project is 1,578 apartments and accompanying infrastructure, with an estimated cost of 64.3m euros without VAT and work will take place over the next three years. The adoption of a special law will speed up the procedures for issuing works for construction, public procurement procedures, land expropriation procedures. From the point of view of the constitutionality of the adoption of such a law which, according to its legal nature, is a leks specialis and, in relation to other laws, is possible, since this project is important for the national security of the Republic of Serbia, and by adopting it, it has not deviated from the basic constitutional principle on the protection of property, which is prescribed in Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. With special consideration, it should be pointed out that domestic construction operations have priority, and our construction workers are also known worldwide for their expertise and thanks to our company's knowledge have built famous construction facilities throughout the world. I'm calling on our companies already, but they're going to have to meet deadlines and fit into the cost of building these apartments. The locations are already ready in the cities I have already mentioned in the previous amendment. The task force, which will head this project, will be mayors, directors of the catastra, as well as the director of Serbia's Construction Directorate. In addition to the concerns and efforts made by the Serbian government and Aleksandar Vukic, I must note that the fight is not only about providing as many squares as possible, but also about increasing standards not only for people working in security structures, but also for public sector employees, as well as pensioners, so in the next period, the budget rebalance will be realised. How? So because it has enough resources in the budget, not by taking credit before the elections, as before the 2008 elections, which has now been the opposition, and then in power, so this is the government's responsibility and the responsible authority that cares for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36663	Thank you. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mr Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36664	Dear Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill adds the 4th position, which says the project ensures overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving the conditions of the military and police. Building apartments for the security sector is one of the government's important measures to address the key problem of people doing important work for our country and its citizens. I mean the police, the military, and the VBA that makes us feel safe, and they can hardly afford to solve the housing issue in the long run, and our job is to take care of them. The government will call a public call and choose the most favourable bank for renting apartments at subsidized prices for members of the security sector. Now we can say that the salaries in the military, the police and the BIA are bigger than they ever were, and we all know that this is not enough and that unlike the times of the former government, they are being paid out of real resources and governments, they are already working on making another increase in security services this year or next year, depending on financial indicators, which are good for now. For example, we have a BIA where I am pleased to say that, in contact with the permanent contact as chairman of the Security Control Committee, I am alone with the members of the Agency and who can now say that after the arrival of the new director at the head of the Agency, Mr. Gasic, they have much better working conditions, technically much better equipment. Salaries are better allocated, just one trend that can convince us that every day within the security sector we can have an increase in these capacities and all for the benefit of citizens and the Republic of Serbia. We can now see the empty benches of the opposition and we don't notice that, even the occasional experts who appear only for ten minutes when the audience's view is the largest and within their party campaign where in their re-exposure several times – I am arrogant, strong and brave; and after that they escape better from the hall. We can now only give support to these legal solutions, because we are sure that in this sector of security and what is now being done in the military, this is to improve the conditions of members of the Army, increase and material investment in our dedicated industry and capacities that can guarantee the protection of the state and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36665	I thank my colleague, Becic. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36666	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Well, this particular member of the law and the amendment that I have referred to him tells me that all my efforts for a whole set of these laws where I have submitted amendments concerning sustainable development, that the government of the Republic of Serbia respects the very conclusions of the 2030 agenda and of all that concerning economic and sustainable development, above all the Republic of Serbia. Through the construction, i.e. the realization of this project and the construction of apartments for members of the military, police and security services, we will not only in my city of Kralje engage in construction and in all other cities, or all four cities where this project is currently being realized. But in this way we will also create a better economic climate in all these cities, because eventually some funds will be spent. The funds that are currently being spent on other things. All those people who will be free of the burden above all paying rent, the rent will also focus that money on spending in another way, and not just talking about how much we will improve the quality of life in all these cities, because in these cities we will also create new traffic and new infrastructures, both sewage networks and everything else that belongs, there will probably be kindergartens, there will be everything. So, in any case, through this law and through these developments that will follow and for the adoption of this law, we will improve the quality of life and economic development of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is currently working on the adoption of the 2030 agenda and on the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36667	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national envoy, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36668	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, of the importance of security and the importance of security forces for a country and its citizens, the many achievements of the resolution ministries testify. The success of the leaders also proves the trust that citizens today have in security forces, as well as the respect they show to the police and the military. I'm saying what I personally believed in through conversations with my fellow citizens. We took a step in Bora. The Board of Traffic Security of Bor Municipality purchased four cars, one of which was intended for traffic inspection, another department of traffic in the municipal administration, the third police department of Bor, and the fourth car was given to use the Engineering and Electrical School, which has a direction in its educational profile - motor vehicle driver. Now the students of this direction will be able to acquire the skills of driving by training on this car. The plan also includes the purchase of a fifth car for the needs of the Bor Police Administration. The same fund singled out 800,000 dinars to repair and train video surveillance, which will significantly contribute to traffic security. Another significant investment in traffic is buying and mobilizing vehicles to save people from car accidents, which will be used by firemen of the MUP. Speaking of firefighters, there is also an assessment of the threat of natural and other disasters, followed by a plan of protection and rescue for the municipality of Bor, since the last such document was drawn away in 1982. It is clear that the link between household management of citizens' money and improving the quality of their lives through all segments that touch society in general. As we develop economically, we invest in significant categories of society, and this certainly includes the security and security forces of all citizens. It is also clear that SNS MPs will support this law in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36669	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Nenad Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36670	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of a security force. Since security forces are doing extremely important and responsible work, as a matter of importance for their job for the security of the entire state, and as a result of the largest number of unresolved housing needs being employed by state authorities, precisely among security forces, who have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for decades, the issue has been decided to be resolved systematically. So in Article 2. The bill stands – Realisation of the project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. All procedures carried out under this law are considered urgent. The project is implemented in phases. The need to pass a special law is seen as starting at the same time in several different locations and different cities, requiring systematic resolution of all issues and overcoming any problems that may arise in the realisation itself. By passing this law, we will achieve some goals. The main objective is certainly to address the largest number of unresolved housing needs, employees in security services, but also through the adoption of this law, we also achieve GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth, VAT income growth on various grounds, increase in income from property taxes, reduce time needed to complete administrative procedures, reduce administrative burdens. In light of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is legally possible to pass this special law, which would regulate the implementation of the project in a partly different way than the general rules, and without violating the basic principles prescribed by other laws and legality. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36671	Thank you. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Stanislav Janosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36672	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when some here insist on defiing themselves, telling the truth and insisting on violations of the Rules of Procedure and replicas, it is only a sign that they have nothing constructive and clever to say, nor concrete. They only have imaginary stories in the focus of their interest and then, Mr. Chairman, we have the absolute right to repeat what we are good at, to repeat the results of our honest and diligent work. So, the law that is on the agenda will certainly enable and provide a roof over the head of the security sector, but will also enable the development of the economy, the development of the construction industry, many will be employed, there will be a rise in VAT, among other things. So many companies, entrepreneurs and state authorities will be involved. What I still want to stress about this law is that it certainly brings back the satisfaction, but it also gives thanks to Serbia's sense of security mileage, so I am submitting this amendment that will further define the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36673	Thank you. The People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic.. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36674	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as has already been pointed out, the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of the security forces rightly represents the public interest of the Republic of Serbia, and in this sense the state provides the largest part of the necessary assumptions for the completion of the project, including the most important security of financial resources, where it is estimated that in the first phase of the implementation of the project for the construction of the first 1.578 apartments will cost over 64m euros without VAT. In addition to this Republic of Serbia, it provides funds for the construction of technical documentation, as well as all other accompanying necessary technical equipment and analysis, as well as funds for the resolution of property-legislative relations within the housing complex or for the construction of municipal and other infrastructures in the function of the housing complex. However, in addition to the dominant role of the Republic of Serbia in the realisation of this strategic project, I would like to highlight the significant role of local self-government, which is seen, above all, in the fact that the means of creating planning and urban documents provide a unit of local self-government to whose territory the project is realised according to the possibilities and dynamics of the planning of funds in the local self-government unit budget, and also for locations that are not socially equipped or partly equipped. Construction of a missing infrastructure in a housing complex to the border of the housing complex provides and finances units of local self-government. In the process of addressing the housing needs of displaced persons, which are in the focus of my proposed amendment, we can identify mutual coordination and mutual contribution of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government in the context of resolving this fundamental problem of this endangered category of population. In this regard, I stress the fact that, with the help of the international community, in the past 20 years, the Republic of Serbia has allocated significant resources for all forms of resolution of housing issues, and local self-government has, in line with its action plans to improve the situation of displaced persons, solved the problem on two levels. The first level manifested itself through the award of construction land without compensation, providing municipal infrastructure, giving up the collection of various municipal taxis and contributions, and the second part is through direct construction of housing units, which is also realised in dozens of local self-government according to its action plans. What is common for housing projects for displaced persons and members of security forces and which gives meaning to the proposed amendment, is that the realisation of them creates assumptions for the political, economic, social, cultural and overall social development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36675	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36676	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to be in Article 2. The bill adds attitude 4. with an emphasis on ensuring the development of the Republic of Serbia. Addressing the problem of housing needs of security personnel is the public interest of the Republic of Serbia. Building apartments for security forces is one of the key measures to improve the material position of those who risk the most to make everyone in Serbia feel safe. Given the importance and responsibility of the security forces' work, as well as their importance for the security of the entire state, the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided that the issue of housing should finally be resolved systemically. Before, there were no financial conditions for this idea to be realized, given the depth of the crisis left us by the protracted former government. Thanks to the responsible SNS policy, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia today has stable public finances and conditions have been created to enter this major project of state housing. In the end, I just want to say that the SNS will support this bill in the voting day. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36677	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36678	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to be in Article 2. The bill adds Article 4 which reads: "The implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on social equality." The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for security forces will improve life conditions for members of security structures, but life conditions will also improve for those people who have acquired pension rights as members of the security force and thus achieve social equality, so that this amendment goes in that direction. Another of the provisions of the bill that will significantly affect the achievement of social equality is that priority will be given to those members of the security structures who do not actually have a settled housing issue when solving the problem of housing. The construction of cheap apartments for members of the security structures will affect GDP growth in the area of construction, the employment of the domestic construction industry, but certainly the growth of employment, as this bill prescribes the obligation of domestic economic operators to participate and thus will certainly affect the achievement of social equality. What I want to stress again today and particularly welcome is the construction of cheap apartments for members of the security structures for southern Serbia, as the south of Serbia has been neglected for years. In voting day, I call upon my colleagues to support this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36679	Thank you, colleague Pesic. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36680	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, this amendment correctly and precisely defines Article 2. It's a bill of law. Realising a project to build apartments for security forces is a general interest in strengthening the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. All procedures carried out under this law are considered important, as the problem of unresolved housing needs is the employees of the security services and how the present has been around for many years. The project is implemented in phases. The first phase of the implementation of a project to build cheap apartments for security forces will be implemented by 2020. What is important to define, which is the aim of submitting this amendment, is to point to the fact that the realisation of this project has an important impact on the growth and development of the Republic of Serbia and the better use of economic resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36681	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36682	I thank the chairman. To Article 2. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for security forces I have submitted an amendment that would add attitude 4 to the implementation of the project with an impact analysis on the development of the Republic of Serbia. The government's office to prepare the programme's proposal and build apartments was formed on the basis of a proposal from the National Security Council. She put forward a clear task of establishing a national security policy as part of the common state policy. It is created through a programme of measures and activities promoted by the SNS, through the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to achieve the objectives of political and national security in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Realising a project to build 1578 apartments in the first phase of the proposed programme creates preconditions for political, economic, social and overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The first stage is building 400 apartments in Belgrade, in Novi Sad 400, Nis 188, Vranje 190 and 200 apartments in Kralje and Kragujevac. The planned value of the works is 65m euros. The funds are provided by the Serbian government's responsible policy, led by the SNS. Thanks to the policy promoted by President Aleksandar Vucic, which is domestic management, clearly and resolutely setting priorities of interest for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by introducing austerity and rationalising the spending of money on Serbian citizens, as well as providing permanent and continuous foreign investments necessary for the creation of new jobs, which reduced the number of unemployed, which were 28% at the moment of taking over from the previous regime, and today the number is around 12%. By the end of the year, the plan is to reduce the number of unemployed below 10% in the Republic of Serbia. Realisation and this project will affect this trend, as well as overall economic growth and gross national income. In order to achieve the effects of the proposed amendment, I urge my fellow Members to support my amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36683	Thank you. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36684	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, fellow MPs, a while ago I was in the company of members of the military police battalion, a unit that passed all the battlefields, from Slovenia, through Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in 1999, I found them in Batusha, when they set out to help our border guards in the field of Karaula Kosara. Amazingly brave people. Many have died. Sloba zastavnik, who was with them, has retired these days and has no settled housing issue, because the responsibility of the Serbian state for his lack of a basic human right, the right to a home. Guaranteed by the European Charter of Human Rights. Yes, it is. That's why I'm gonna support this law. It must enable people who have bled for Serbia to be able to exercise their right to a home. It's our duty to give them all that. With this amendment, I would like to suggest that this law raises the country's overall defence capacity. How do they get up? First, normative acts are adopted, then the national security strategy is aligned with reality, doctrinal documents. On this basis, the structure of a military organisation is forming, adapting to modern security challenges, modernising equipment by various means of arms. But what's most important in every military organization and in every other institution is human resources. We need to have motivated members of the armed forces, members who can plan their life in the long run, so they can plan their family, not be in suspense. If they have the opportunity to solve the housing issue, they'll be motivated, they'll be more satisfied, they'll have a family. Their motivation will affect the increase in the number of those who are interested in military schooling, for military schools to have as many as possible, as high-quality candidates for enrolment in military schools. Their motivation will affect the work of the troops, most importantly and, of course, for God's sake, will always be ready to give their lives for Serbia. That is why I believe that this law is extremely important for all members of the security forces and the armed forces and the interior ministry, all our units, especially those who have bled, died, wounded for this Serbia. I'm happy this law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36685	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36686	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, the annual assembly of the Association of Military Refugees of Serbia for the City Organisation of Belgrade was held today in the New Belgrade City municipality, starting at 10.00 hours. The assembly of the Association of Military Refugees of Serbia was dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the existence of this association. 27th anniversary of homelessness. I was a guest today of the Association of Military Refugees in Belgrade and together with two other officers, members of the Ministry of Defence, the same guests, we attended this assembly, where a handful of problems have been raised that have been in place for all these years, and it has been 27 years since they were without apartments, they have tortured this category of people. Regardless of the accumulated problems, they send us a message that they support and welcome the project of building apartments for members of security forces and express hope that the state will insist for the first time in a systematic way on solving this, for them, a life problem, and that they will not be bypassed. After fulfilling the conditions laid down in this law, when we adopt it and sublegal acts adopted under this law, interested persons will be entitled to purchase apartments under favourable conditions, but remains the last but very difficult condition, which is the security of funds, i.e. creditworthiness. In this sense, they expect help from the state and understanding. There are two regulations that currently resolve this issue at the Ministry of Defence and in the Army, but also with retired members of the Army. These are the rules on addressing the housing needs of the defence ministry employees and the Serbian Army and the Regulation on the resolution of the housing needs of the beneficiaries of military pensions. I hope these rules comply with this law and I welcome the law. I'll vote for him because he's the best so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36687	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36688	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted this amendment to point out one problem, one very important business possibility. In 2015, the town of Leskovac, headed by Mayor Goran Cvetanovic and the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government, launched an initiative to replace facilities with Serbia's Army. In fact, in the center of the town of Leskovec, there is an object called the so-called "Train of Leskovec". A park owned by the Serbian Army was abandoned in 2005. Also, there is a garrison facility, an ambulance with a salary of 4700 square meters also in the city centre, which is owned by the city. Due to the extremely poor non-conditional premises in which at the time, and now located the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government Leskovac, and because of the need of the town of Leskovac and the Serbian Army, a meeting was organised at the defence ministry in Belgrade on July 8th 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Army of _Serbia, the city of Leskovac headed by the mayor, as well as the head of the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government of Leskovac. After the meeting, everything went well, especially because the town of Leskovac showed its readiness to make up for any difference by giving a number of apartments to members of the Serbian Army and by imposing a number of rooms to the Ministry of Defence for the local self-government of Leskovac, following the possible renovation of the Park facility, which would solve their problem of accommodation. Since the exchange procedure, meanwhile, has stalled, for some reason, the town of Leskovac restarted the initiative a few months ago. This time I appeal first of all to you, Mr. Minister, and I want to say that the mutual benefit is to speed up the process of exchange of objects, because by exchange you would get the town of Leskovac, which would make the town house of Serbia's army, whose number would solve the housing issue or the garrison of Leskovac, would solve the accommodation of the technique currently standing in its open air. And finally, the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for the Local Self-Government of Leskovac, who would finally get paroled working rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36689	Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36690	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Vulin with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, as you know, will begin construction in Nis the first 188 of over 2,000 apartments, as planned for the first phase of construction, for members of the MUP, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. The city has already proposed locations for construction. In a major project that is implemented and financed by the state, low local self-government will ensure that the construction is completed by a fully decorated missing infrastructure, which includes road traffic, electricity, heat pipeline, collector and telecommunications network. The apartments will be built in typical residential buildings and apartments will be different squares, from the garages to the four-bedroom apartments. The apartments will be built fully in line with European standards. In this way, the largest number of security officers will solve their long-term, even decades-old housing problem. This project is very important and represents the public interest of the Republic of Serbia, and the benefits of such a significant project are GDP growth in the area of construction, construction industry engagement and, of course, an increase in employment. When we talk about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, I want to share one piece of information with you. Today, an agreement was signed in Nis with the National Employment Service to subsidise measures to encourage employment. The city of Nis has allocated 40 million, and the National Employment Service has allocated 33 million dinars. Last year we received recognition for the local self-government unit which has most singled out funding for co-financing of employment measures, i.e. to encourage employment with the National Employment Service, and so will be this year. And let me remind you, the Cumtobel and IMI factories in Nis end this year and will employ two and a half thousand Nishels. Leoni, which opened four weeks ago and currently employs about 1,300 workers, will employ another 900 Nišli. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36691	Thank you. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Djukanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36692	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, my amendment refers to the implementation of the housing project, with a special emphasis on sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda. It is an Agenda that involves identifying priorities by sectors, that is, what every government in its future until 2030, in line with new technical and technological solutions and new developments in the world, should apply. Successful implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals implies maximum resource utilisation, as well as our commitment to budgeting to create conditions so that distribution is in line with national objectives. I think this law, and we have had opportunities from our colleagues who are on the Committee on Security and the Committee on Home Affairs and Defence to see that just up to the maximum limits all resources have been used when it comes to preserving national security through this kind of law. The most important thing to say is that political will was still needed, because the model and concept of this housing always existed, however, the price of 500 euros, apparently some who led the country until 2012, was not acceptable and then the squares cost a thousand and a half euros, so three times more. At the time, they said 500-euro-square projects were not feasible. Obviously, it took a lot of strength and work to achieve these results, which were eventually assessed by the IMF and the World Bank, where Serbia shows that it has made great progress after economic reforms and fiscal consolidation and that it has shown that it can even continue to have surpluses in the budget, means that it is making more income than expenditure, and that it exceeds projected 3% growth. This project and this realization show that in the case of a 30 000-euro loan, which the future user and member of the defence forces of the Republic of Serbia could have, that they could give the possibility of paying off through a 30-year war, one war that is extremely acceptable, such a loan, of 126 euros, so that, for example, 25 years would have that war, and the last five years had a 25-euro war. This shows a complete difference in the concept of the state's relationship to Serbia's security forces compared to what was before 2012. You, Minister, have said that 700 cases have been resolved since 2012, when it comes to Serbian Army officers, so it shows that Serbia is going a good path in general when it comes to housing. Thank you, after all, for being here today, no matter how many ministries participate in these projects, because we need to really show the citizens of Serbia that the government wants this project to be realised, although it is two million squares, even though the projects are worth 250m euros. This means that in the future, this will become the daily life of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36693	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Veroljub Matic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. LJubisa Stojmirovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Jovica Jevtic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Jovica Jevtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36694	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers and fellow Members, the amendment to the proposed legislative solution is further defined by Article 2 which sets out the public interest of the implementation of the project, as well as the urgency in the procedures provided for by this law, and by adding Article 4, the link and impact of the implementation of the project on the even development of the Republic of Serbia is specified. It must certainly be recognised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resistant Ministry for the proposed legislative solution, which seeks to address the problem of unresolved housing needs of security personnel and access to the solution of this problem through the Institute of Public Interest, as mentioned above in Article 2. The bill defines. Given the importance and responsibility of the work, which the security forces are carrying out, as well as their importance for the security of the entire state, and as a result of the largest number of unresolved housing needs of state-run officials is among the security forces that have failed to resolve this housing issue permanently for decades, the same issue has been decided to be resolved systemically. It is not particularly necessary to stress how much the proposed legislative solution will affect the equal development of the entire country, because the said construction of housing units will be territorially evenly deployed and give a chance to solve the housing problems of all members of the security forces, regardless of what part of the territory of the Republic they work and live on. The security sector may well be the only part of the social system that, due to the nature of the work it does, has been deployed in all parts of the country. An analogy, a solution that seeks to address the problem of unresolved housing issues of employees in these security services, is certainly a solution that will contribute to the development of all parts of the country. And in my previous presentations, I have pointed out the even development of the entire country in all areas of social life, as one ideal for all of us to strive for, regardless of the political differences between us. Although this is quite difficult to implement in real life, we must not give up on this idea, so the proposed amendment to a member who defines the public interest, in the sense of adding an attitude that defines it, is certainly supporting the idea of a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36695	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36696	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the amendment I submitted to Article 2 of this law reads: "The implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of the school system." The adoption of a law on special conditions for the implementation of a housing project for members of security forces and the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of the interior ministry, the Security Information Agency, the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence solves the decade-long problem of employees in these services. The proposed law allows for the housing of employees in the mentioned services, as well as persons entitled to pensions in one of the state authorities mentioned. Realising a six-seat construction project of 1,578 apartments in the first phase of construction employs many construction firms from Serbia, raising GDP in the area of construction, and particularly important, ensuring employment growth. The number of construction sites to be opened in accordance with this law will be great places for the application of dual education of students of construction professions, which is very important for our education system and future development of the construction industry in our country. Investment in dual education is very applicable, not only in construction, but also in other areas that can be used in the realisation of the apartment building project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36697	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36698	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 2. The proposal adds item 4. "The implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on the development of medical centres." This amendment further defines Article 2. It's a bill of law. Accordingly, I would like to point out that starting on 1 January 2012, it has been consolidated into the pension and disability insurance system of the Republic of Serbia under the responsibility of the SVO Pension and Disability Insurance Fund. The SVO Fund is a legal person with the status of a mandatory social security organisation that exercises the rights of compulsory health insurance of military insurance. The housing of beneficiaries of military pensions can be solved in two ways – the first, using funds from a housing lending programme under a project to build apartments for security forces and pensioners who have retired in one of the security forces and the second, based on the Regulation on the use of military pensioners' funds without a settled housing issue. In addition to this 500-euro apartment purchase project for a square metre, there is a Regulation on the use, conditions and method of using funds to improve the material position of users of a military pension without an apartment. It allows the beneficiary of a military pension to receive a non-ambiguous loan to resolve a housing issue of 20,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, on the day of application, according to the official course of the National Bank of Serbia. If they are identified in this way to resolve housing issues, the beneficiaries of military pensions submit a request to the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance Insurance, with already known evidence. About 90% of applications filed have been made, they've been paid off for loan contracts. In these two ways, military pensioners working in security can reach their own roof over their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36699	Thank you. National MP Zoran Milekic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36700	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable fellow Members of the People. To Article 2. I submitted an amendment to the bill, which adds item 4, which reads: "The realisation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to tax liability". A mass housing project for members of the state security service planned in six cities over the next few years could reach a figure of 25,000 housing units. It is certain that the realisation of this project will address the largest number of housing needs of security personnel, as well as military pensioners. In addition to solutions to housing needs, the housing project will also contribute significantly to GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth, tax revenues on various grounds, as well as an increase in income from property taxes. All of these, in addition to segmented growth in certain activities, will affect the overall development of the country, and hence a better standard of living for all its citizens. In order to specify and implement, a new legal solution was needed to start the housing implementation with the unified conditions, since the ways and conditions of realisation start at different locations. Also, the adoption of a special law will speed up the procedures for the construction, procurement and land expropriation procedures. For all of this, in the voting day, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36701	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36702	Respected ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces in Article 2 speaks of the importance and strengthening of the national security system of the Republic of Serbia, but the law also serves to strengthen the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about this law, then we're talking about a set in different stages of over 150m euros, of a 5,203 housing unit. When we talk about it, we are actually talking about growth that will reflect GDP growth through investment. But it should not be forgotten that the realisation of this law also has a return segment to GDP growth, i.e. the Republic of Serbia's budget. The effect is measured through demand growth, so the growth of demand in different sectors will allow higher revenues at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is clear that this law will not result in an increase in VAT revenue, as it is mainly about apartments that are the first apartments of customers and other VAT laws will, as a rule, be returned. But this does not mean that if it is fiscally neutral at the level of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it will have no effect on the budgets of local administrations. If you look at what this might look like, then it is clear that the revenues of local administrations and their budgets on the revenue sides will be significantly increased. It should be pointed out that the tax on absolute rights, as one of the key categories of income from local administration, will be increased, that the income tax on citizens, which will be the result of investment and construction, will not only grow in apartments, but also infrastructure, as well. What is not to say that the property tax of 0.3, i.e. mainly 0.4, will be traditionally increased in municipalities where a new project is represented. That's why this law needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36703	Thank you. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Milosav Milojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36704	Thank you. Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. In Article 2. I propose adding the 4th position to the bill; "The implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector." Realisation of the housing project for security forces promotes all ways of developing the state, improving the private sector and continuing to adopt reform laws. From the above, the bill states that a system of military education will be carried out by young people, who will be directed and trained to do their job professionally, quality and professionally. The whole system is scheduled to create professional members of our defence services and carry out jobs and tasks from the defence ministry and the Republika Srpska Army. What matters is that these people are provided to have all the necessary conditions for the lives of their families. It is more than clear that members of the army of Serbia and the MUP deserve special conditions and that there is a need to build apartments for all who need it. The bill makes it clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia's wish is unequivocal and that what is promised will be fulfilled. That is why I strongly support the proposal for this law, and I believe that through the development of the defence force of our country, but also by strengthening the private sector, the foundations for economic and other progress of the Republic of Serbia will be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36705	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36706	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers Mr. Vulin, respected gentlemen from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2 has established the public interest in the realization of the project, as well as the urgency in the procedures provided for by this law. In Article 2. The bill adds the 4th position, which reads: "The implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving health conditions". Security forces have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for decades, as we know. Recognizing the importance of addressing the housing needs of security forces, and getting to know the potential difficulties that can arise in the realisation itself, a special law aimed at the successful and efficient implementation of the project itself has also been joined. It was found that 5,203 apartments for members of security forces could be built at the proposed locations in six cities in the first phase of 190 apartments in Vranje, 188 apartments in Nis, 200 apartments in Kralje, 400 apartments in Belgrade, 200 apartments in Kragujevac and 400 apartments in Novi Sad. So a total of 1,578 apartments. What's important is that the Serbian Building Directorate has completed the construction of the viewing apartment and, here, I have a project here that looks like this view apartment, or model apartment, that will look like. No matter what architectural and technical forms and equipment they have and how much money they invest in them, there are some basic hygiene requirements that each apartment needs to meet. The minimum hygiene requirements for safe housing include everything needed to remove those factors from the apartment and those circumstances that we are sure can lead to human health damage. The apartment must be built and maintained to allow certain physiological, psychological and social functions to be performed, and to protect against domestic injuries and infections. The basic physiological needs to be provided for the apartment are: thermal insulation, air security with sufficient chemical purity, daylight lighting and artificial light. The basic psychological and social needs are: 1) conditions for individuals to separate and single; 2) conditions for maintaining ties with neighbors, friends and relatives; 3) maintaining the cleanliness of the body and clothing; 4) doing domestic jobs without unwanted physical and mental efforts and 5) meeting aesthetic needs in the apartment. Injury protection. The building of an apartment is of such material that is resistant to earthquakes and stronger wind movements, fire security and the provision of possible evacuations in case of fires and protection against electrical shocks, as well as protection against gas poisoning. To conclude, the prerequisite for building residential buildings is the existence and implementation of a general urban development plan for the settlement, which I will talk about in the next amendment to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36707	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36708	Dear gentlemen, Comrade Minister, you were in Valjevo and you know there is a garrison in Valjevo and you know well that Valje’s security centre is western Serbia and it is simply surprising that Valjevo has not found its place in these six proposed cities. I consider this a failure and I would ask you to find Valjevo after this first phase, which is 1.578 apartments, in this remainder up to 5.203 apartments, precisely because of its position and because of its importance for the security of the Serbian state. These 5,203 apartments will cost exactly the most, as my colleague Goran said, about 150m euros somewhere, but I will say exactly, if the price was 500 euros per square metre anywhere, that would be 143,082,000 euros. However, in some places this price will not be 500 euros, but will be lower, because what we are doing, or what the state of Serbia is going to do, is a real incentive for the overall economic development of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm talking about, the way GDP increases. Every local community, self-government wins. She gets more basics and will be interested in building these apartments and therefore I pray once again and I advocate that in the next phase, which will be after the construction of these 1.578 apartments, she finds her place in Valjevo, and Valjevo will do everything possible to find it on that list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36709	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36710	Valjevo is certainly a city of importance, which cannot be bypassed and you can expect with certainty in the next distribution, when local self-government is registered and made available what local self-government should do. You can expect that for sure, because I know there's a need. You know we had a project for those house installations. One of the ideas was to make houses for the members of our army, so it gave up, but what I'm saying is there's interest. Interest will be recorded. Take care of yourself. Valjevo is certainly very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36711	Thank you, Minister. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36712	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government, in this First Chapter in Article 2, it is defined what is the general interest in the implementation of this project and Article 2 has three positions. I added one as a fourth, and it's about fighting crime. Crime itself is one phenomenon that is capable of destroying the most organized societies, especially if this crime is supported by the largest authorities, and we have had the opportunity to see it. The consequences can be catastrophic, and today they are visible and measurable, and they are best visible and measurable if you actually compare them to something that was before or something that happened afterwards. Only then can you see the results of that and that kind of action. And that's the only way you can understand their weight. For example, is it not a crime that is immoral if you try to criminalize someone who is not guilty of anything, but rather responsible, is responsible for defending his own country and his own people, he is responsible for doing what he was trained to do. When you dehumanize him and criminalize him, then it's his removal, retirement, humiliation, and then you chase him all over the country like a wild beast, and you end up putting him in jail regardless of his guilt, and it's his fault that he was doing the job he was trained to do. It's not a crime, it's a mild word, it's a crime against its own people. You know well I speak of Serbian officers and of all security forces who have done their job in the past. All this was experienced at a time when defence ministers were both Dragan Sutanovac and Boris Tadic, but while the government in this country was mainly headed by the Democratic Party headed by Serbia. Now, what's going on right now. At this point, you have people who show this respect for what they did when it comes to defending the country, also appear at Serbian Military Academys and show as an example to future Serbian officers. You are doing everything you can to arm the same members of security, together with the president, here we are witnessing all the efforts that the Ministry of Defence and the Government and the President of the State of Vukic make. With this law, and you provide them with housing, you provide the safety of their families, because the safety of their families means the safety of all our families and the safety of every family in Serbia individually and beyond, because Serbia's safety is reflected in the safety of millions of our countrymen living in the region. I've just led a team, and I've decided to make one such amendment, and to prevent such a crime in the future, and it could also be called a crime against its own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36713	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36714	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on specific conditions for the implementation of the project and the construction of apartments for members of the security force, above all, to ensure that this member, i.e. The implementation of the housing project for security forces has been linked to the efficiency of local self-government, and I have therefore proposed to add Article 4 to this article. Although it is basic, i.e. The general objective of this law certainly is to resolve the residential issue of the military, militia and other security services, this law also establishes several parallels, i.e. specific additional objectives which certainly concern improving the efficiency of local self-government. First of all, in local self-government, where these apartments are built will be further employed by the domestic construction industry. Other industries that are directly related to the construction sector will also be activated. One of the objectives is certainly the growth of employment in local self-governments, and as far as local self-government units themselves are concerned, there will be an increase in income from property and the time needed to complete administrative procedures will be reduced. That is why I call on you to support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36715	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mother. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36716	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have submitted the amendment in order to point out the importance of the engagement of construction domestic enterprises, i.e. the producer, the contractors of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, so what importance they have for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, as many as 35 industrial branches will be engaged in building apartments for members of the security service. So there is no wiser investment than investment in construction. What's the reason I'm saying this? Because every dinar invested in the construction industry returns to the state multiple times. In this case, when it comes to building apartments for security personnel, about two million squares of living space will be built. This is all done by our government and our President Alexander Vukic, in order to improve the standard of living, but also by the conditions of life of members of the security service, who are not only willing to give their lives for the country, but are doing an extremely difficult job. The next period is projected to be extended for young couples, but also for young scientists and thus the state will prevent brain drains from the Republic of Serbia, as was the case 15, 20 years ago. Many governments before the government of our President Alexander Vukic, and today the Government of Ana Brnabic tried to do something about building apartments for members of the Security Service, of course unsuccessfully, so that anything could be done, when, let's remember, before our President Aleksandar Vucic became President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the public debt was 77% of GDP. In just three years, we managed to reduce public debt by 20% and our goal is to keep public debt below 50% by the end of 2018. So this is the first government to begin and complete a project to build apartments for members of the security services until the end. Today, citizens really have something to brag about, they had a good estimate when they supported our president, Alexander Vukic and the SNS in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36717	I'd like to thank my colleague, Charapic. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36718	So, and the amendment to Article 2. The bill stresses the need for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development, and I think it has its place in the law. Since we still haven't heard one argument against this law, and the absence of opposition members speaks in favour of it, I would like to highlight some of the most significant moments this law provides, in order to avoid all those insinuations coming from these experts across the street. So, once again, Serbia's Building Directorate has done an analysis based on all relevant data, and the possibility of building a 5,203 apartment has been established, and the first phase of construction envisions 1,578 apartments in those six cities that we have mentioned here several times. That was also said by Zorana Mihajlovic and Nebojsa Stefanovic yesterday. So there's no misunderstanding. It is simple that opposition representatives are mostly not at this session, do not participate in the debate, are not interested in the essence, are not interested in it, they are interested in something completely different. Here, they're not attending this session today. So, there was another grudge, which is 30,000 members of the Army and the police have no settled housing issue, and this is just 1,578 apartments. Yes, it's only 1,578 apartments, but it's 1,578 apartments more than they built while they were in power. Therefore, for this reason, I suggest we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36719	I thank my colleague Markovic. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slavisa Bulatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36720	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues, to Article 2. I submit an amendment to the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, and I propose adding the 4th position – the implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rule of law. By adopting the laws and implementing the project envisaged, the state is investing in housing, infrastructure and our construction company, thus ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk today about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, the development of southern Serbia is also understood. I am particularly pleased that the planned building of apartments for members of the security forces is also planned in Vranj, the headquarters of the Pcinjska Management District, that is, south of Serbia. As you know, Vranje is a city that was among the first to have a fully prepared location for the construction of the apartments in question, which is also proof that the local government in Vranje is responsible for both citizens and the state. The location for building apartments is completely communally equipped, and close by are the same elementary school and kindergarten. The total area of the urban project, which provides for the construction of several family housing facilities, is 14.223 m2. In Vranj, the construction of 186 apartments, situated in three lamelas, is normally planned. The apartments are one bedroom to three-room. The net area of the objects is 11.552.06 m2, and gross 12.987,96 m2. Building apartments for security services in Vranj is another proof that the state is thinking south of Serbia, that it is more than present in the south, and that it also gives special attention to citizens of Serbia who in a special way care for the preservation of peace and stability of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36721	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Vlahović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36722	Thank you, Your Honor. At first, I would like to commend the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Labour Traffic, especially now that we are 10th in the world after the construction permits were issued, and in 2014 we were 186. Thank you. Respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, building apartments is a major project that will be and will have a positive effect on the entire economy of our country. For days, we have been listening to opposition MPs who are not present, critics, negative comments, suggestions on this bill, on this big project of building apartments for security employees, who will have the opportunity to buy apartments at more favourable prices. It's not easy being a tenant. This bill will bring joy to many homes, in cities such as the Kingdom, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Vranje. It's good when opposition MPs react so badly to the bill, because anything can be forgiven, but no success at all. Every suggestion they make, we can answer the criticism, because the results of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia with President Aleksandar Vukic speak for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36723	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36724	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is about agriculture. The entire civilization today comes from agriculture. So I believe that this country has enough natural resources, that it has fertile land, that it has a very favourable climate, and that, let's say, we just respect those standards that are in Europe that per hectare, and we have a total of five million hectares, of which over four million are working, that we have one conditional throat per hectare. At this point, it is 0.33 in Serbia. In Europe, there are 100 euros from agricultural production, 70 euros from livestock and 30 euros from plant production. It's the other way around. In Europe there is one throat per hectare, with 0.33 conditional throats per hectare. If we were to meet their standard, in which case, agricultural production, just out of livestock, would jump three billion euros, and not just in the final production, it would be worth five billion, and that would be enough money to get to the citizens in a certain way, to the strength of security, would be enough money for bigger wages, would be enough money for construction, would be enough money to build new apartments. These guys didn't build us before. They built very little, and their skill wasn't in the building, it was in the installation. So, apart from knowing that they fit well, the people to make, there were lots of wild objects, and even more savage installations where they filled their home budgets, wallets, penthouses, 320 square meters large, pasture apartments, bought villas like Vuk Jeremic, houses and apartments for a million euros. We don't need to go their way, we need to build apartments, not just these, every year we have to build as much as we can and find jobs in that way for builders and builders. In their day, the builders were free builders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36725	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36726	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am as an SNS MP, as someone who comes from a people, happy, extremely happy when I meet members of our security forces, some of them are friends of mine and when I hear from them how happy and happy these people are about what we are doing today and about the decision we will make when we vote in the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. When I see on the faces of the members of their families, I am fortunate that my children will have the opportunity to stay home, which will achieve something that comes to the arrival of SNS and Alexander Vukic to power only was a dream for members of the Army and police, which was only a dream for every normal citizen in the Republic of Serbia, that is to come to an apartment, to buy our own apartment, which we no longer have in power people who reach pastures under suspicious circumstances, who buy enormously expensive watches, who have overpriced cars, which today we have in power people who care about citizens, about their needs, so here is the topic – more favourable apartments for police and military members, for those who every day worry about the safety of every child in Serbia, for those who are willing to sacrifice their lives for their country. We as SNS and this government take care of them, not of tycoons, politicians, people who have money, but of those who need the help of the state and government. In this sense, we find absolutely the support of all security forces in the Republic of Serbia. I am proud to be part of that majority in the Serbian Parliament that does such an important thing for the citizens and for the members of the military and the police, and thank you both, as Minister, and thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all of us who are doing this big job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36727	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dr Desanka Repac submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36728	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to welcome Mr. Minister with his associates, fellow MPs. My amendment concerns the implementation of the project of apartments of security forces, as it affects the improvement of health care. I would first like to say that the idea designer of this project is building apartments for members of the security forces of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, and the realisation remains with the Serbian government. Realization of this project solves the problems of people who are living unsettled. The law leads to a system-based solution to all issues and overcoming all problems that can arise in the course of realisation itself. Realisation begins in several different locations simultaneously, Novi Sad, Belgrade 400 apartments, in other cities of Nis, Kragujevac, Vranje, Kraljevo 170 to 200. It is the need of people working at the Serbian Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Criminal Sanctions. This is how we strengthen Serbia's national security system. It is very important for those who care about our safety to provide essential living conditions. For members of the MUP, it takes 20,000 apartments, for the Serbian Army 14,000 apartments, BIA 1,500 apartments. The idea is to fix the standard of living for people who do hard work for the state, the Army of Serbia, the MUP, the BIA, the prison guards that make us feel safe. They have low incomes and they can hardly afford to solve a living issue. We have to take care of them. These are the words of Alexander Vukic, and so came his idea of this project. As the former state fell apart, a significant number of troops concentrated in Serbia also reported a residential issue of military faces and military refugees. The state then found no solution so that the government of the Republic of Serbia now resolves the issue. Due to these high-risk jobs carried out by security forces, high conditions are provided because we raise efficiency in business to a higher level. War environment, healthy environment, conditions, housing and material opportunities are very important for a healthy and working man. The key issue that is being implemented by this project is the ability, living conditions, health, safety and workability. This is how we improve Serbia's health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36729	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36730	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, distinguished colleagues, this law specialises in me the most significant law that resolves the social and material status of a member of the security force. By the way, it strengthens the prosperity and security of the Republic of Serbia and not what is important because of my amendment, it strengthens the security and security of our countrymen living in the region, which are under the circumstances and remain outside Serbia's borders beyond its queen. Many of them worked in security forces and during the break-up of the SFRY faithful oaths of the JNA and the police defined themselves as abandoning their property, their right to inheritance and their absence of anything. Today, because of the sense of honor and nationality, although we must never forget that there have been those who are not our nation, they have also remained in that position because of the sense of honor and belonging to this country. It's very difficult for them. This is particularly fueled by hidden warrants and a constant threat to arrests, from persecution when visiting their properties, visits and assistance to their relatives, their fellow countrymen who have remained outside Serbia's borders. All these are reasons why this amendment makes sense and we must always think about Serbs in the region, provide absolute assistance and absolute protection. We must not allow it to defeat the self-indiction and self-proclaiming of that policy, which mostly raises the question of crimes against the Serb people – where is our fault. We've heard it here and here these days. And under the cloak of well-meaning, we are advised that any strengthening of security forces is pointless, spending money. Strengthening the army is spending money, because it will always solve American weapons in the Balkans, because the force of God does not beg. The answer to this question is our struggle for truth and our desire to separate force from virtue. As long as there's resistance, there's a sense of that resistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36731	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36732	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, esteemed ministers with associates, with the aim of further defining Article 2. The bill, I tabled an amendment that reads – by implementing the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving the work of local self-government. Since 2012, Serbia has embarked on accelerated development, modernisation, a rise in living standards and the overall better life of its citizens. It has become a country with a set of finances, economically stable with a surplus in the state's cash register and an ever-increasing rise in GDP. These economic indicators give us the right to pass this law on special conditions for the realisation of housing projects for members of security forces, and in August of this month we start building 1578 apartments for which, which is very important, are provided with funds of about 65m euros and from real budget sources, without credit borrowing. The fact that there is already a better living in Serbia is the fact that as many as 18,905 security forces have shown interest in buying an apartment under this project at a price not greater than 500 euros, which makes up a number of 20,367 potential buyers with 1462 retired persons from the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. This says something else, more specifically, that they all believe in a better future, the SNS believe, this government, especially the Serbian President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, that their life issue will finally be resolved by the realization of this project. Finally, it particularly looks forward to the implementation of this project of a number of local self-governments, which certainly provides for a balanced regional development, enhances their work, and thus the overall development of the Republic of Serbia to which we seek because of our children and generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36733	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36734	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in the part where I want to place an accent on undeveloped areas, in areas such as Svrljig municipality, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka, Babusnica and other parts of southeastern Serbia, for the reason that by building these apartments that will be built in Nis, Vranj, we have the opportunity to develop an overall operation there. These people out there who work, they have to eat something, so we'll have a great chance of developing agriculture. With the construction of apartments, a large number of people will get certain quality dishes coming from our neighborhoods. Every good worker must have good food. This food will come from undeveloped areas, such as the Snooky Cheese, the Snooky Belmusch, the Snack Lamb, the Black Snack. These are all areas that can feed all those people who will work these apartments tomorrow. So as president of the United Peasants' Party here in the Assembly, I urge all fellow Members to vote in favour of my amendment. I also thank the government and the president of Serbia once again for pointing out that we are working on building apartments and thus providing a roof over our heads for our officers, for our soldiers, for all those who have defended our country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36735	Thank you, fellow Miletic. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Here you go, Dr. Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36736	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this law, which adds Article 4 which reads - the implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities. The adoption of this law, in addition to seeking to address the largest number of outstanding housing needs of security personnel, will significantly contribute to GDP growth. In the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth, VAT revenues rise on various grounds, the increase in income from property taxes, the reduction of time needed for the completion of administrative procedures and the reduction of administrative burden. The implementation of this project required state participation, and since the previous government left us a catastrophic situation in all segments and the level of public debt during their term of office was 77% of GDP, we had to do a lot of work and we managed to do a huge job. Let's take it one step at a time, and we'll see that this is a successful model based on which to later build apartments for young couples, who form their family and influence population policy. The opposition, however, continues to criticise and, without arguments, argues that nothing will be realised. We're used to criticism, various insinuations and fictional stories. It's important to us to fix the standard of security forces, that their salaries will grow, but that this is a way that they can plan their families and have a better life. I will also stress that building these apartments will significantly boost the Serbian economy. For the construction industry, this means a lot, because it's supposed to build two million square meters, and there's going to be a lot of work for domestic firms in less and medium term. It will work on the production of bricks, creps, carpentry, floors, water pipes, electricity and all that is needed to build one residential building. The mass of workers will be employed. In view of all of the above, I must stress that Article 2 needs to further define that the implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities, which is very important and therefore, by carefully analysing the above-mentioned views, I have proposed Amendment 2, which is complemented by Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36737	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36738	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which I would like to clarify that the implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on reducing social differences. In fact, the difficult measures of fiscal policy have led to economic recovery, economic recovery, and here we are in charge of the budget. From that budget surplus, we've just subsidized the construction of apartments for security services, and above all, we've increased salaries, and now there's going to be a decade-long non-resolvement of residential apartments for members of security. This is necessary. Why? Because these people are doing a very difficult and responsible job, and they don't have security when they come home. Imagine people who were in 2014, saving our lives in floods, and then coming home, and living there privately, paying for an apartment of 250 to 300 euros, that's unacceptable. That's why we're doing this. It's a socially responsible policy. We've had a little respect for you, we're fond of your opposition colleagues, so why don't we build 380-euro apartments? Well, I would ask them a question -- and why didn't you build 380-euro apartments, but commercial apartments, apartments at market value that were from 980 to 1350 euros? We build twice as cheap, even two-and-a-half times cheaper apartments, with excellent quality for members of security. That's how it works. That's how the responsible government works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36739	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36740	Thank you. The draft law on which I tabled this amendment includes members of the Security Force and this: the Ministry of Defence of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, the BIA and the Ministry of Justice, or the Department of Criminal Sanctions. According to the survey conducted by the National Security Council Office, 18,905 security forces are interested in buying an apartment, but also 1,462 pensioners from these categories. Although my colleagues have already provided a lot of data, I would like to point out once again that 5,203 apartments will be built in six cities in Serbia. In the first phase, 1,578 apartments will be built, in Belgrade 400 apartments, in Nis 188, in Vranj 190, in Kralje 200, in Kragujevac 200 and in Novi Sad 400 apartments. In addition to the categories I mentioned, which will have a priority for buying these apartments, there is absolutely no need to ignore other categories of society, which are employees of health and education. I would especially single out healthcare professionals, whom we must create much better conditions to stay in the country. It is true that we cannot solve overnight problems that have accumulated for decades, but this measure represents one big step forward, and together with the announced increase in wages and pensions in the public sector, it represents much better conditions for the lives of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36741	Thank you. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36742	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Mr. Ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the bill sends a clear message that he has a responsible relationship with people and those who work in the security sector and who are willing to put their lives on the altar of the country. My amendment refers to Article 2. Article 2 is precise and clearly defined general interest in building these apartments, apartments for security forces. It was then defined to be considered urgent, which means that the implementation of the project will take place as soon as possible, without any legal barriers and obstacles. The maximum number of administrative procedures will be settled by official duty. Also, Article 2 provides that this is only the first phase of building apartments for members of security forces, which means that the construction of apartments will continue. My amendment concerns the implementation of this project, in fact, of this law, of the entire development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the protection of vulnerable groups. Now, let's see how this law has connections and how it can be brought into a direct causal relationship with the protection of vulnerable groups. First, I must point out that this law will lead to an increase in employment. The increase in employment directly affects poverty reduction. I must point out that in 2012, the unemployment rate was 27%. This meant that the state, or its citizens, is in a state of poverty. They were in such a state of poverty that even certain cities and municipalities were called the valleys of famine. Today, the unemployment rate is reduced to a much smaller figure, which is 12% today. This certainly indicates that there has been a reduction in poverty. As the number of employees also reflects on the protection of vulnerable groups, an increase in income in local self-government will take place based on the accounting of contributions to employee earnings. By increasing the budget of local self-government, it will also have a direct impact on the reduction, i.e. adequate and better protection of particularly vulnerable groups. I would like to point out that in the area of the dedicated industry, which represents the real engine and the driver of the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, since 2012, there has been an increase in the number of employees by 4,000. The increase in the number of employees directly affects poverty reduction, and that is what my amendment is looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36743	Thank you. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36744	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, where new infrastructure is being built and where there is nothing new modern roads, there is a lush and economic life, and that is what will bring us to build more than 1,500 new apartments across Serbia. Each block of apartments is always followed by new roads, homes of health, schools, kindergartens, new companies are opened, small businesses and shops are growing, and such new parts of the city are spreading very quickly. Realisation of infrastructure projects leads to the progress of the entire economy by contributing to a more balanced regional development of the country. Areas with developed infrastructure and road network are more attractive for foreign investors, factory construction, job creation for the local population. All this encourages greater employment of domestic production and service capacities, which opens up additional opportunities for local self-government to realise different development projects. Just for reasons of equal regional coverage, the construction of apartments will not only remain in the cities of Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Vranje, Kragujevac and Kraljevo, but other cities in Serbia who are interested in joining the programme will provide proposals for locations where these apartments could be built. It is also very important that these apartments will be able to buy on loans that will require only 10% of the participation, which tells us that the state has strengthened enough to withstand such an investment that will return at low interest rates in the long term. Again, it is the success of this government that openly and directly shows that it works for its people, that in every way it tries to correct the huge mistakes made in the near past and enables quick economic recovery and development by giving us a easier and better life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36745	Thank you. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, bag buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36746	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, ministers from the ministry, fellow MPs, when we talk about building apartments for members of security forces, we cannot look back on building an exclusive housing facility by former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, as well as the circumstances under which the Cypriot company "Vilab Farm" appears as the owner of four-tenths of the same apartment with the former defence minister and his wife, and also co-investor of the joint facility on the most expensive pasture in Europe, paid full million euros. The director of the Villab Farm company, Radomir Bzik, was also the owner of the Peyton Medicine company, which during the ministerial mandate, sold drugs and sanitary materials to the Ministry of Defence and the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance, thus earning more than 350,000 euros. According to official data from the Public Procurement Authority, Peyton Medical has been awarded a tender of over 11 million dinars by a direct contract of the total value of transactions. With all this in mind, it is no wonder that Dragan Sutanovac has earned six million dinars for five years and has managed to save from these six million dinars an incredible 150 million, the value of its 190 square-square apartment and a 139 square-square gallery in the elite return pasture. But there is no end to Sutanovec's magic here, since he has managed to save more than 300,000 euros in bills in several banks for the five years to buy more valuable art paintings, weapons collections and collections of expensive watches worth tens of thousands of euros. Of course Sutanovac failed to save all of this himself, so he appointed best man Ilija Pilipovic, a well-known arms dealer and collector of criminal charges for abuse of office. But to return to the former defence minister's apartment, with the fact that before Dragan Sutanovac and the aforementioned Cypriot firm became investors of the construction of a luxury building on the return pasture, the original investor and the permit holder of the facility were the company "Tresna" d.o.o., which, as a miracle, simply did not believe, a year before the sale of this investment to Dragan Sutanovac and other co-investors of the Ministry of Defence in the restrictive public procurement procedure received a job worth nearly 20 million dinars. Because of this, it would be very interesting to determine whether Dragan Sutanovac or again one of the companies that received millions of public procurement jobs during his term covered the cost of buying exclusive pasture at Vračar and building an apartment and a gallery totaling over one million euros. In this way, we will determine whether there is binding material from Cyprus in the whole case, or whether the cherry was born well to Dragan Sutanovac in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36747	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36748	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 on Section 4 which is in line with the amendment that I have tabled to Article 1. The fact is that in addition to the general interest, when it comes to strengthening the national security system of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the adoption of this law or the initiative to pass this law, what this law contains, corrects and takes care of is the issue of social equality. It's a shame that it doesn't say it in a clear and unequivocal way in the law itself, and that is the reason for this reaction and the suggestion that this amendment simply changes and corrects it in that direction. It's not just an empty floscule. It is the issue of social equality, when it comes to Article 2 and Article 1, which define the subject of regulation and public interest, that would make it clear that the adoption of these amendments would affect and facilitate the application of Articles 7, 10 and 11 of this Law. In this regard, Article 7 of this Law speaks for 1st position on the structure of dwellings and clearly differs, precisely by respecting the principle of social equality, which are squares, from the garage to the four-bedroom apartment, necessary for the decent and normal housing of families, depending on how many members they have. The 3rd position of this member has defined that a member of the security force, on his own request, enters into the purchase of the apartment, but the 5th position also defines that a member of the security force that has an inadequately resolved housing issue at the moment can resolve it, but respecting one principle of social equality, unless a member of the security force who has not solved the housing issue is interested in the purchase of the apartment in any way at that time. Therefore, the issue of social equality has been clearly treated in this law, but by accepting these amendments it would indeed receive one appropriate weight that is necessary and would facilitate the application of the law in a further procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36749	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenović. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Parezanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36750	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, the Serbian Army has always been able to praise highly educated and professional personnel through its history. I believe that every young man who wants to enroll one of his military educational institutions must have, in addition to his attraction and interest in the area, and one special patriotic charge and love for his country, in order to be maximumly motivated to school and later perform all those tasks that this area requires. Only a fully motivated soldier or police officer can fully fulfil all his work tasks that are certainly not easy and resist all the challenges national security requires. If that security officer does not have quality conditions for his job, if he does not have quality living conditions, if he does not have a roof over his head, he will certainly not be able to devote himself completely to his work. And that's why this law is very important. Without strong educational institutions, there are no strong security systems, but also these educational institutions will not be strong if its students do not see a clear perspective, if they do not see that the state cares about security forces, to take care of their working conditions, to take care of their quality of life. Only then will they be motivated to school and one day fulfill their dream, to put on that uniform and protect their fellow citizens and their country. Of course, I, like all MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, am very sorry that such a law was not passed much earlier, but as one of the previous colleagues said, at the time of the Democratic Party and then the Defence Minister, Mr Sutanovac, it was much more important to build apartments in the return pastures, but not for the military but for them personally. So I'm going to repeat what I said yesterday, that it's a great honor and pleasure to have the opportunity to support this law, with the expectation and hope that my city of Cachak will also be a city in which apartments for security forces will be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36751	Thank you, colleague Parezanovic. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36752	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues, each member of the security force contributes to Serbia's economic development and the fact that nearly 30,000 security forces have not solved the housing issue in the opposition's part of the worst abuse, not having a shred of shame as to why the number is not smaller today, and apparently having no memory that they were in power in one period when all of this could be fixed. So they were in power, there was money in those privatisations, and that time really bears the name of privatisation in every sense -- state-owned companies were privatized with robbery privatisations, and that money ended up in private pockets, and the army should live in private. It was, about, a message from the authorities during that period. They're also incorrectly dealing with the fact and the prices of the apartment -- where someone now has 30 euros for a 60-square apartment. Yeah, but we're making sure that a soldier in the security force can pay off that apartment for 30 years, under a much more favourable monthly rent. And we will note that in the period from 2008 to 2012 so many people lost their jobs that we then paid the biggest rent, approximately, Serbia then paid over 8,300 people who had lost their jobs, that government and that period. Proud of the security forces, we'll do everything we can to make their living and working conditions better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36753	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Here you go, Dr. Laketich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36754	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, today we are talking about a bill that will, in the coming period, solve the accumulated problems of members of Serbia's military, police, BIA and the criminal sanctions administration. However, this law definitely had to be passed significantly earlier. It was supposed to be brought back during the period of authority of those who are criticizing today. The problem is not since yesterday and definitely with this kind of consideration and with such proposals as today's law, I expect that in the next period we will reduce the number of members of these services who have a housing problem. However, my proposal to you, Mr. Minister, is that, in some future phase, I suggest, the next phase, you look primarily at the municipality of Prokuplje and Toplička district, in such a way that exactly in the headquarters of the Toplic district, apartments for members and the military and police, are built, not only because local self-government is extremely cooperative and has a great desire to help and come out in any way, not only to solve municipal problems related to the facility, but everything that is necessary and the prerequisite for building these objects, but also because the Toplic County has a very long, military history, because the thermal Iron regiment and all that it has done, I think they have put us together to make one, I would say qualitative step, and in some future period we are also looking at the members of the military and police who are precisely heirs, the biological heirs of these people who have done so much to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36755	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36756	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia once again shows that it runs a responsible policy and that it takes care of all structures, both the material status, so here, this law and the housing status and settlement of housing issues. I would add on this occasion that the commander-in-chief of the Republic of Serbia, with its huge support and work of all security forces, has been increased in the past months to members of security forces by about 10% and, of course, it is not something to stand on, but will continue to work on. Then, the diaries were raised. By doing so, it will be easier for them to address their housing issues with these benefits provided by this law. What's commendable is to restore boarding school, military high school, military health care. So it's done in all fields. For every commendation, it is also that our services of security, i.e. the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence and the BIA, have established intensive co-operation and are working on preventive action against extremism and terrorism, and this is indeed for every praise, because it has not happened in the previous period. Indeed, current ministers and current BIA director deserve all praise. We are as citizens, as representatives of citizens in this House, grateful for providing us with security both for us and for our children. Just keep it up, and we'll definitely vote on this good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36757	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. To Article 2. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36758	Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would like to point out that for the implementation of the draft law, it is very important to look at the infrastructure as a whole. Realisation of the project will also have an impact on the implementation of serious demanding jobs through the adoption of planning documents, and on the expansion and promotion of existing infrastructure networks, communal, traffic, all that is necessary for new housing blocks. The project of building apartments for members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia will be implemented in phases, and thus all participants in the system, starting with units of local self-government, will be involved in the implementation through the provision of planning documents, through the provision of urban and technical documents, through the issue of location conditions, up to the construction permit. In creating all of these documents, special attention must be paid to traffic and to all other infrastructures and to all the benefits that traffic carries with it. The implementation of this project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia and the state, headed by President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the purpose of having no interest, personal profit, but to provide assistance, conditions are being created for the better quality of life of citizens. The possibility provided to members of our country's security forces by this law will certainly have positive effects, as the SNS work programme is helping citizens, but with a lasting solution, in this case, to the housing issue that has been pending for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36759	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) Collegine Pavlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36760	I thank the chairman. Honored ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, the realisation of the project provides overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of medical institutions. This amendment further defines Article 2 of this proposal. I would like to stress the great satisfaction that I have the opportunity to support the adoption of the Bill's proposals and thus contribute to making sure that our President Aleksandr Vukic's promise, given to members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Serbia, is planned by the state of Serbia to solve their housing problems during 2018 to allocate certain financial resources and start the first phase of construction. To remind ourselves, the overall needs of members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia are 20,295 housing units, and it is planned to build 1,578 apartments in the first phase of construction. Building apartments for members of Serbia's armed forces is a "pilot project", which will be extended to both young scientists and young couples. I have already reminded in earlier exhibitions that during NATO's aggression on our country on 8 April 1999, bombed and mupri, when the cassar plant was severely damaged. Unfortunately, to this day, our barracks have not been put into operation. Dear Mr. Vulin, I ask you, as you do, to launch an initiative to make a decision on the future of our barracks, to have the Serbian Army decide to re-impose the Bohemian barracks in the post of our country's defence, taking into account the fact that it is located just 20km from our largest military polygon "Passuljan Livade", or that the city-building land that lies within the Tumprian barracks is defined for the construction of apartments for members of Serbia's armed forces. I remind you that the cassarian barracks are located in the center of the city, that they have more than 17 acres of city-building land, that it is equipped with almost all infrastructure facilities. Dear Minister Vulin, once again citizens would be happy to have the cassarium re-functioned, i.e. to reopen the artillery-sub-office school, and if that is not possible, please respect the needs of local self-government to determine its future civilian purpose based on the agreement, that is to say that the land at the disposal of the cassarium is to be defined for the construction of apartments for the needs of the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia. Realising the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the promotion and medical institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36761	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36762	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, co-workers from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, the necessity of this special law that regulates building apartments for security forces is for reasons, as projects are implemented simultaneously, in several locations in several cities and therefore a system solution and solution of potential problems is needed, and in order to make the project more efficient. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. A bill adding attitude 4, which refers to the link between project implementation and impact on the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. The law also provides for a provision that only domestic performers can be employed for construction on such a large number of apartments, which will amount to 5,203 apartments by 2020, this is not insignificant and will become an engine driver of the entire economy. The most commonly used economic indicators are, let me remind you, the price index, the industrial production index, the construction production index, which is the case here, the retail transport index. Economic growth will be the process of increasing real GDP, it is quantitatively expressed in a wide variety of ways, with the help of GDP growth per capita or national income per capita and others. Then, as far as the proposal for a law on special conditions for the realisation of apartments for members of security forces is concerned, they include members of the MUP, then the Ministry of Defence of the Serbian Army, the BIA and the Administration for the implementation of criminal sanctions, which lies ahead, and I am truly looking forward to it because it shows how responsible the hair is, because decades of unresolved issues are beginning to resolve both systematically and legally. The apartments will be built, as we have heard many times today, in six cities, Belgrade, Vranje, Kraljevo, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis. Of course, there will be others. There are many colleagues who have expressed their desire to continue construction in their cities, it will certainly be and the apartments will be at a cost of up to 500 euros. I can say that in Mladenov, where I come from, the minimum price in the worst parts of the city is 700 euros, and we are one small town, not to talk about Belgrade, Novi Sad, where prices are much higher. Therefore, this price of apartments is extremely favourable. These apartments can also be purchased by members of security forces who have just earned their pension right, so neither pensioners are forgotten, nor will those members of security forces who have alienated their property in Serbia or in the former SFRY. The construction of these state-owned properties is scheduled to begin in August 2008 practically tomorrow. That is why I call on fellow MPs to vote in favour of my amendment, which, through the promotion of construction, then production, installation of materials, purchase of furniture, anything else necessary to create adequate conditions, directly encourages Serbia's economic development for housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36763	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A fellow prince, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36764	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with associates, the bill on building apartments for members of security forces is a basic idea to improve the standard of living for people who make Serbian citizens feel safe. Our security forces work day and night to keep our country calm and safe, thus creating conditions for the arrival of a large number of investors and further economic rebirth of Serbia. The state of Serbia faced a huge problem in 2012, when finances and the state led us to bankruptcy. As the SNS comes to power, everything changes from the ground up. The state of Serbia is fiscally consolidated, and the economy is based on real and stable finances. Of course, none of the infrastructure projects could have been implemented overnight. The wise, smart and responsible policy of Aleksandar Vukic is being hit by the foundations of stable financing in 2014 and 2015 and continues until today, so they have come up with the conditions to implement a large number of important projects, and among them a project to build apartments for our security forces. This can only be realised by a state and government that is responsible for its citizens, protecting, above all, through members of the security forces the right to live in a peaceful, stable, safe and economically orderly country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36765	Thank you. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Col. Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36766	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in Article 2. The bill adds the 4th position -- the implementation of the project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on health development. According to the World Health Organization, health is not only the absence of disease, but the state of physical, mental and social well-being. Why did I start with this definition? It is precisely because this law directly affects the improvement of the health status of all members of the security forces and members of their families, because they are dealing with a very important life issue, which is a question of living space. They will no longer be stressed as tenants, but will finally have their own living space, their peace and peace with their family. Knowing that in other areas of our society there are also a lot of people and families with unresolved housing status, I hope that this government, and our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, will find a similar solution for workers in health care, education and that one by one, will be solved in a similar way. The local self-government of the town of Loznica has defined funds from the city's budget for the purchase of residential units with a garden in rural areas for young couples, who opted to live in those environments. Special advantage is given to health and education workers, veterinary professionals and agricultural experts who would be of the greatest benefit to the rural population and solve their various everyday life problems, all to keep young people from staying in the country and processing their property and forming families. For this year 2018, local self-government has defined six million dinars for this project from the city's budget. When the household business is done, then the funds are found both at the republican and local level. That's how the government is responsible, that's what our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, does, and that's how the Mayor of Loznica works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36767	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Collegine Mijatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36768	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces further defines this law in the domain of children's rights. First of all, I would like to point out that Article 2. The bill defines the implementation of a multi-stage project, which, as we have already mentioned many times, is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. Taking into account the importance and responsibility of the work that security forces are carrying out, and as well as that the largest number of unresolved housing needs of state service personnel are among security forces that have not had the opportunity for more than 30 years to resolve their housing issue permanently, the Serbian government has decided to start a system building of 5,203 apartments in the third quarter of this year. This, after nearly three decades, will lead to the resolution of the major housing and family problem of all members of the security services, and in that sense the amendment I have submitted suggests special attention, need and care for children and respect for their rights. In fact, efforts made by top state officials in terms of the rise in birth, but also support for parents in raising children, provide sound grounds for launching a childcare issue and applying their rights to the convention at all social levels. So is resolving the housing issue of families of the defence ministry, the Serbian Army, the MUP, BIA and the justice ministry -- the Administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions of importance for the smooth development of children. In this regard, I would also like to stress that children's rights are an expression of recognition of the international community on the existence of the special needs of children established by the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child. It works through four categories of rights, through security, protection, participation and, above all, prevention. The state has done and is doing much to establish an environment for the better and better quality of our children's lives, and so this bill is also a kind of support for the protection and care of children of members of the security services. Using good international practices, using relevant knowledge, continuous, constructive dialogue, we can suspend a better monitoring system to achieve objectives in the area of child rights. It is therefore necessary that we all work together to accept the concept of children's rights, as well as its popularity in family, school, health, social and all other institutions. I would take the opportunity to remind myself that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade is dealing in a special way with the issues of the youngest citizens. Taking care of children, their education and growing up is our priority, because children are our future. Therefore, the efforts and efforts of the competent institutions to solve inherited and ongoing problems are of paramount importance, both in the area of housing, and in particular the families of children of security services, and in the area of education and childcare, because it is very important that our children have a better quality environment, protection, safety and more adequate conditions for growing up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36769	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Birmančević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36770	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the law we have been discussing for several days now under the amendments, is a law that, for those who doubt the justice and the results of these laws, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be voted on by the Republic of Serbia, but is not the law of the SNS, or a certain minister or minister. This is the law of Serbian citizens, a law that will solve the housing issue for all citizens of Serbia, especially those who work in security services, and which will restore faith in the state's ability to find a way and find a model for all those who need help in resolving the housing issue. Nis, Vranje and Kralje are the first three cities in which housing construction will begin, and this only shows the commitment of this government and the policy launched by Aleksandar Vukic, the even development of Serbia and the care of all those living in all parts, and this is not Belgrade, it is not Novi Sad. There are other cities and I expect the minister, of course, to help keep Shabac and Loznica, the cities of the district where I come from, on a map of cities where apartments for members of the security service will be built. The entire government and all ministries are behind this project, and what matters to the citizens is that it is the funder of these projects, these apartments of the states, and there will be no mistakes, exactly the law that will systematically solve this problem. What I want to pass on to our citizens, they are not in a situation to see, in this room there are more members of the ministries and the government who participate in this debate than any MP who belongs to the yellow company, and this best speaks about their relationship to the security services, according to the problem being solved through these laws. In the voting day, all those who think well of this country think well of their citizens and, of course, members of the Security Service will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36771	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36772	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the proposed law seeks to address a large number of unresolved housing needs of security personnel who have failed to resolve their housing issue for decades. Article 2 of this law, which I have submitted to this amendment, has established public interest by implementing a project that strengthens the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. National security policy is part of the common state policy and is implemented through a harmonised programme of measures and actions taken by the state to achieve the objectives of national security policy. Her realization creates assumptions for the political, economic, social, cultural and overall social development of the Republic of Serbia. Given the importance and responsibility of the security forces' work, as well as their importance for the security of the entire state, the adoption of this bill will systematically resolve the residential issue of members of the Serbian Army. The government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, leads a policy of military neutrality and peace, but in order for any country to lead such a policy to be strong and independent, it must therefore have a strong military and police force, which is achieved by active investment in the development of the Army, in the modernisation of arms, in military education, in health, but is primarily invested in people. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36773	National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Bakery, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36774	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I have submitted this amendment to Article 2 of the proposed law, and I have suggested that paragraph 4 be added. We have heard certain MPs here who say – what a haste, what an urgency, and from the ranks of those who have had 12 years of time to solve all problems, including this problem of housing members of the security service. They respecting the directive and the stance of their President Boris Tadic, who said – what our colleague Krsta Janjusevic would have mentioned several times so far, they thought we wouldn't have the Army, we wouldn't have security services, so we won't need anything to do, we won't need apartments. We've also heard a suggestion that it's better to raise their salary by 10% so that they buy their own apartments on the market wherever they want, at the price they want. I'm now interested in whether 10% would stimulate someone to go out to the market to buy an apartment at two or three times the price and with two or three times the war. Security officers were offered to buy an apartment, but that doesn't mean they won't get paid. Successively, they will be paid and announced by President Aleksandar Vukic and not only them, he announced an increase in salary and education, and at the opening of the Centre for Radiology at the Institute of Oncology and Radiology of Serbia in the centre where 8.5m euros were invested, he said he would only be satisfied when the salaries were raised by at least 50% of the existing workers. And as Minister Vulin said, building these 5,000 apartments will not be just a flash action. Depending on indicators of needs, this action will continue to take place in other public sectors, education and health care. Everything tells us that this policy of concern for citizens initiated by President Aleksandar Vukic, who is being implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the support of the Serbian Progressive Party and its coalition partners, is something that will in the foreseeable future raise the standard and improve the quality of life of our citizens and members of the security service in this case. Again, I appeal not to talk about cheap apartments, because these apartments are not cheap, these apartments are quality apartments, and if they were found on the market, they would be at a price of 1,300 to 1,500, and perhaps more euros, depending on the location. They're built by the highest standards and they respect all the qualities that these apartments should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36775	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pantovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36776	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one of those who are key to strengthening the national defence system of the Republic of Serbia. We had a chance a few weeks ago to talk here and about the Army Act, military education, BIA. All these laws are good solutions aimed at improving our security forces, improving their status, and they are the best example of how this government is responsible for its citizens. We also had a chance to see how our military and police members had dealt with themselves before. By 2012, the army was systematically destroyed and they even tried to convince us that we didn't need the Army. The number of members of the army was reduced, tanks and hoodies melted. Fortunately, Serbian citizens, this is the past, and today by adopting such laws, we have a situation to restore military equipment, to get planes, tanks, to buy vehicles for police members, to build apartments for members of the security forces. In this way, the Serbian government makes it clear that it wants security forces that can protect our borders, which can protect our children on the street and says that no one will ever be able to commit crimes against our people, which happened to us in the 20th century. I call upon all MPs to support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36777	Thank you. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36778	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, in Article 2. The bill adds the 4th position -- the implementation of the project provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. National security policy is part of the common state policy and is implemented through a harmonised programme of measures and actions taken by the state to achieve the objectives of national security policy. Her realisation creates conditions for the political, economic, social, cultural and overall social development of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the importance and responsibility of the work carried out by security forces, as well as their importance for the security of the entire state, and since the largest number of unresolved housing needs in the state bodies are amongst the security forces that have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for decades, it is necessary, in the very proposal for a law, to explicitly and unequivocally highlight and affirm the principle of efficiency of judicial institutions, which is precisely achieved by this proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36779	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36780	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, every dinar invested in a project as large as the construction of two million squares for security members is repeatedly paid and driven by our economy. Such projects will also allow a large number of new jobs, not only in our construction companies, but also in areas such as construction material production, ceramics, furniture and other activities. I have submitted this amendment because I think it is important to point to a constant productivity of construction workers, to constantly improve competitiveness. It is important to influence the motivation of young people for this area. Then, it is important to comply with the labour market and identify the number and structure of human needs. When I say compliance with the labour market, I mean the fact that we are already in a position to face the deficit in the area and that a number of qualified workers, voters, carpenters and other specific profiles, we are already importing from the surrounding countries to perform construction works within and without reduced intensity. I therefore believe that this problem should be resolved systematically and that the necessary step was to introduce dual education. The second step is an analysis of the state and structure of construction workers, as the absolute need to achieve a stronger connection between education and businesses and to improve the professional direction of young people is in line with the needs of the economy in the area of construction and housing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36781	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric tabled on the back of article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On behalf of Members 3 and Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marko Djurisic. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36782	Article 3 is an EU novelty explaining certain concepts of the bill, which have nothing to do with the essence or the spirit of this law. You say that you cannot accept this amendment where this should be deleted, because you say – if the law were left without a term explaining the terms used in this law to make it impossible to apply the law. This is really amazing. Do you think this law will apply who? I guess they're going to apply their rights in the administrative procedure and they certainly know without this term, what it means. you have explained who is the person who has the inappropriate apartment, who is the person who does not have a permanently solved living need, etc. We all know who the faces are and what faces don't have solved housing needs, but this law doesn't solve their problems. When it comes to security services, this law should never have been without the last wars fighting, the fighters, their families, the wounded, or the disabled, the participants of the wars, and I don't know what category you're going to put them in. You promise, in fact, Vukic promised that in 2014 that all young couples would have these, he even offered better conditions, more favourable than what you are offering now, but I ask you, Ministers, which category will you place these people in, and when is finally intended, after all these years to eventually resolve their questions? As far as we are from the SRS, they are indeed a priority and it is high time to take care of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36783	Thank you. National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36784	Mr. Minister, it is very important that we discuss some of the misunderstandings here and tell us which way they will, and here are colleagues from the SNS who listened to Mr. Stefanovic yesterday. This particular Article 3 speaks about who they are and describes to detail the members, who have the right to apply for the purchase of such an apartment, but how are they going to organize centres in these six cities? In fact, Mr. Stefanovic said yesterday, so due to lack of time, I didn't have the opportunity to ask him, ask you, by system, you know that folk-old saying as his first girlfriend, he also said who first applied the apartment is his, or the possibility of buying, no classic rank list. They asked fellow Serbian radicals. He said no. As soon as he logs in first. You now, here we are, the MPs of the people, many of you were councilmen, running for various functions. In order for someone to apply for any credit, he must have proper documentation. First of all, who is this person to identify, from the institution where he works, a copy of the birth certificate, citizenship, etc. You yourself know very well, when you collect documentation for your application on a list of MPs or for a councilman, that sometimes it can happen that the authority of the administration does not issue the document you need at the time you need it, that you have to wait, etc. Imagine now, they should compete and one who was not lucky, and let's say from Kurzumlia, Vranj, from Backa Topola, from Kragujevac, irrelevantly, from Ljubija, not to receive one document, not by his own fault, but by some service, he will lose the ability to buy an apartment because someone passed it. Then we get to the point that it's like a lottery and you just have to change it and there are other rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36785	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36786	Just for a little while. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, public authorities are required to obtain all documents on which official records are kept. So if you don't do it then at least we know who's responsible. You can never assume 100% responsibility here now, but it is predicted that our bodies, specifically the Ministry of Defence, will be able to obtain documents on which we keep official records. I've stayed in debt. Now I'm taking the opportunity to buy a bath and a Sabbath. In Prokuplje 281 military personnel were wanted, I speak only for the Army, no housing issues are resolved, and for Sabac it is 87 persons. These are the numbers that guarantee economic profitability in the sense that there is a reason to sit with local self-government and work on it, of course, all phases.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36787	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36788	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. A bill relating to building apartments for security forces. You know the position of the SRS that we have nothing in principle against building such apartments, especially if we know what is the security situation in our nearest environment. The security situation is getting worse every day and Serbia is facing major security challenges in the coming period. However, I believe that many things in this law could have been resolved in a different way. We don't see any guarantee from the law that the apartments will really be assigned to those who need it most. There is a legitimate concern that new abuses will occur during the assignment of these apartments. Namely, the start of building cheap apartments for security forces, Minister Mihajlovic announced last year, and the works were due to begin in March this year. The experience of past times tells us that my fear is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36789	Thank you. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law and as you can see and as worded today in this Chamber, the SRS has submitted a number of amendments to this bill. We put up with it first of all because we wanted to make this law better. As many of my colleagues have heard, we have nothing in principle against security forces being viewed in one appropriate way, since the vital interest of each country, and of course the Serbian state is that there are security forces that will be able to take care of their country's security and security. So you haven't adopted our amendments, but well that's not why we should have said you shouldn't have come, or this law should not have been passed. However, as I said in my previous amendment, I noticed that you are making one political campaign first of all. I don't think this thing is for political promotion. Of course, are you better than the previous regime? Of course it is. They didn't do anything, at least you're trying. Is that enough? It's not enough. Here, just to remember the times that many remember, and perhaps even these younger ones, once the apartments were divided for free, and today we are in a position to say for someone, let's say a better price, provide a housing issue to our security forces and then boast about that fact, or the government boasts about that fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36791	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3 of Section 1 and the erasure of point 6 with the reason that defining the concepts in the very text of the law is unnecessary. No smaller law, no more discussion. First of all, I'm thinking about that constructive debate, unlike the ones that aren't in this room today, whose only mission is to dissuade and devalue every kind of debate. The bill itself represents a small attempt to ensure that at different locations the conditions of building these apartments under favourable conditions for members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, but at the same time to contribute in a good way to this being a model and in the future to address the housing issue and those who contribute directly to the overall social development, such as science, health, education, as well as certain economic branches, which are both of which are of importance and have a general interest status. I just can't help but mention miners and some other professions where there's not enough labour, just because of a very bad perspective. It is also important to remember those who have lost their jobs by their own free will, who retired prematurely, whose decades of efforts and contribution to the construction of society are not negligible. So once again, I will underline that the SRS does not dispute the need to build these apartments, but also for all other categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36793	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36794	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted this amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on special conditions for the realisation of a project to build apartments for members of security forces, in accordance with point 8. Our intention was to avoid burdening the bill, so the amendment proposed to delete the whole point 8 in the 1st position relating to the definition of terms. We in the SRS feel that defining concepts in law is unnecessary. We also believe that the very essence of the law as well as the application of the law in practice is much more important. During the debate, the SRS parliamentary group stressed that there is nothing against the adoption of such a law, that it is necessary to resolve the housing issue of security forces, but the problem is that only a small part, some 5%, of the total necessary housing fund, will be solved. At such a pace, a solution would be possible over 20 to 30 years, and by the time these people deal with such a responsible job, most of them will be with unresolved housing issues and incomes that are not the proper weight of the jobs they are doing, which is actually a much bigger problem for the government in Serbia to deal with as seriously as possible and as soon as possible. In these people, members of security forces, you expect responsibility, then you must act responsibly. If that's not the case, you achieve the opposite effect and contribute to the collapse and standards of these people and the reputation of security forces. Mr. Minister, what were you handling, what criteria were it that for the building of apartments for members of the Leskovac security forces were not covered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36795	Thank you. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36796	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 3. We have tabled an amendment to delete point 9. This article includes defining the concepts used in the law, and we MPs from the SRS believe that it is completely unnecessary and excessively defined terms, i.e. only the definition burdens the legal text. What I would point out, and what we have started in previous discussions, are criteria that are being pricked and based on which to form a ranking list of residents when it comes to renting, with the possibility that the apartment can be bought either in whole or for 40 years. Some of these criteria are the importance of the workplace, with this and the length of the job, the time to wait for the resolution of the housing issue, the number of members of the household, the health situation and the performance of the service under difficult conditions, for persons who have recognised a dual-term internship. I ask you - what happens to the housing unit that was purchased under these conditions, in case a member of the security forces is allowed to buy a cheap apartment? Is the apartment he previously bought back or remains in his possession? If he returns, which ministry is he returning to, and what happens next to that housing unit?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36797	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36798	You can't buy one of these apartments if you already have one of your apartments. So if you already have a settled housing issue you can't apply for these apartments, you won't get it. Now, there's the only option if you have an inadequately resolved housing issue, so you have to return that apartment to the Ministry, and then you can participate in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36799	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36800	Thank you. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've said a lot and heard a lot in today's principle debate, and through the submission of amendments on this bill to build housing to members of the security services. In this case, a round of people with conditions of up to 500 euros will be satisfied. This is how we discriminate against a number of people, for example, education, health care and other institutions in the Republic of Serbia. With a proposal like this, and tomorrow by law, if we're going to have an effect. With this, as we've said on many occasions, it's a well-imagined project. But, gentlemen, we must not neglect those people who are participants in the last wars in the former Yugoslavia, that they too may be covered and even be the priority of buying these subsidized apartments. As for us in the SRS, we think that the state for these categories should provide free apartments, they deserve it. But we can see that this is not the case, from the presentation of individual ministers, that the right and obstacles of purchases are given to those who are the first to submit or fill out the questionnaire. Other criteria have been ignored or do not exist at all, which raises doubts about setting up such favourable apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36801	Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36802	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, examples of practice warn us to be careful, perhaps even skeptical when it comes to voting this law. In 2016, a competition for the sale of 122 social non-profit apartments was announced in the village of Kamendin on the edge of the Zemun field. The price with VAT was about 700 euros per square metre, but these apartments are not bought, as they are located in a very remote location and they are now failing, and a number of apartments are devastated. So we're witnessing a similar project of the same government, on just a slightly lower level. On the other hand, on the territory of the municipality of Zemun, on the land of the former barracks on Novograd Street, in a far better location, the wages to private firms built there by luxury apartments whose price is astronomical. Today's Minister Stefanovic, in a single TV duel, accused the then mayor of Bogdanovic of this very manipulation that the land of the barracks intends to give in to privates, which is what happened, but when the government changed. Also, Minister Mihajlovic argues that her ministry is building cheap apartments on land of another former barracks in Zemun, Dusan Street, where the price of squares is 1,600 euros, with VAT included, and that is above every market price of housing square in Zemun, especially in that location. As for the apartments discussed by the law, the building minister argues that the maximum price per square will be 500 euros in Belgrade and 450 euros in Vranje, Nis, Kralje, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, without VAT. Even if this price remains and there is no increase during the construction process, it is not a big service to the citizens. In view of the locations at which it is intended to be built, the price of these apartments is not particularly lower or is even the same as the prices of already existing apartments in those places. So neither at the cost nor at the method of payment, and especially the quality of the dwellings here has any service to the residential unsettled families of the security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36803	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Fellow Member Nikolic Vukajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36804	Thank you. One question I would first refer to the minister, and that is – how the state has committed itself to building such apartments after 2020, and whether we will be sure that this project will last until the needs of your people who need this type of purchase of the apartment are met, that is one question. The second question, in fact, is not a question, but perhaps a suggestion, does it seem to you that it is a real price, that the price of 500 euros plus VAT is a really advantageous price when it comes to the King, or when it comes to these other cities in the interior other than Belgrade. You were the Minister of Social Affairs, and you know well how the King lives, how the Royals live, that there's an average salary of about 30,000, and that a total of five, six thousand people have more employees than those who are unemployed, and all of this pulls away, of course it's all one business chain, which completely drags the entire economy of a city. Second, as regards the location of “Vocareva livada”, “Ribnica” etc. It is right that colleague Mihajlović, who spoke before me, about these prices, in the King's price at that location, believe me that it is more than huge, because today in the King, not only in the King, but in all cities in the interior you will find apartments of 400, 500, 600 and 700 euros. So this isn't a very privileged price. Another question, how did you commit the banks and if you talked to the banks and what banks you talked to, since we don't have our banks, except maybe, we know what our banks are, all foreign banks, you know that they work here exclusively for big profits and that we're very damaged when it comes to the banking system. Why are you letting such a vulnerable population fight with some banks tomorrow, in public or in real life, how are they going to get to a certain loan, and will they be able and willing to pay it all the way? One more thing to ask you – why aren't 100% domestic materials, but at least 80% of domestic materials, don't we have everything? One more thing to tell you, anyone who has built anything in their life knows that the price of 300 euros, if we want a price, cannot exceed 300 euros. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36805	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36806	You see, the thing is very simple, if it's all so bad, people won't sign up, they won't buy apartments, we'll take political responsibility for it all, and the thing is simple. But as you can see, 19,000 people reported say -- not quite so, he says -- we think it's convenient and it would be good. As for the price itself, here's when you talk about the King, first let's get one more thing straight. Soldiers and cops aren't unemployed, they're employed, they work, they have salaries, and we can't talk about them in that category, just like military pensioners, they also have their pension. As far as heights are concerned, we said up to 500 euros without VAT. It doesn't mean in the King, it means you have material that's a fixed thing, and the material costs you in the King's, Belgrade, or the New Sad exactly the same, but everything else costs you different, infrastructure, communals, taxes, etc. So that's where the difference is, anyway. In the King, as you know, and Chačka, there's not an MP here from Chačka, for 30 years the army has not shared any apartments. This is gonna be a big deal if it ever happens and this changes. As long as he's interested in army and police and BIA, we'll keep doing this. We think this is very important. As for the banks, let me tell you, for the Army, we now work with banks as an army, not as a government, but as an army, we have provided certain benefits for our members and every year, on average, close to four million euros goes to credit, if we had another 40m euros, our members would take that 40m euros. So it's really a big interest, and it works out well. There's no reason it doesn't work, and this is very good, and you can be sure it's going to work very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36807	Based on which the replica. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović: Replica. On what basis, I'd like to know. Nothing was offensive, the minister answered your questions. By amendment. Well, wrongly interpreted. It's an excellent interpretation. By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36808	Mr. Arsic, it is not correct what you have done now, as it was not a correct minister's answer, and that is why the colleague wanted to intervene. You're here talking to the Ministers about some infrastructure costs, communals, etc. Yesterday, the minister says you will discuss this with local self-government that it will not be paid. The day before yesterday, the third minister said it was already agreed with local self-government that it would not be paid. Make a nice deal between you, then tell the National Assembly and the public of Serbia what the real solution is. What you're saying is that 19000 people who are interested in getting rid of the housing issue have applied, and we tell you by the dynamics presented by Resorna Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, may not have told you, she may have made a deal with Scott, who knows, but according to her dynamics, that problem will be solved in 22 and a half years provided no one new is employed in the security service. So we're very serious about this. We have read your proposal very seriously and in detail, and we remember very well the promises made by the president of the country that in 2014, apartments for young couples will be built at the price of 380 euros per square. Well, in the last campaign he raised the price to 500. Well, you say up to 500. No, it's not up to 500, it's going to be a lot more than 500, if there's any of these apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36809	Col. Jovanovic, you want the word after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36810	Mr. Minister, you said that 30 years ago in the Kingdom municipality no apartment was assigned to members of the Army. It's sad, but how can you solve it, to make the most socially endangered, and that's what Mr Stefanovic said yesterday, that you're going to form some kind of fund for those who can't buy and who still have to come for the children of fallen fighters. Simply return the housing law that abolished the Dossow Yellow Thief Authority, you will have the basis, you have the opportunities, you have the fund, you have the property of the Serbian Army that is not in use and which you can make up for and sell and provide these people with apartments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36811	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. My colleagues, Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue to point out the shortcomings in this bill's proposal, and above all to the points where the possibilities for abuse remain open. I'll look into public procurement. We've heard that a list of domestic producers has been adopted that will be able to participate in these affairs. We didn't get that list, but I believe it's companies with a good reputation, that are solvable, that have long been on our market and that have earned the government's trust. And then we read in the explanation that the project is expected to form a large number of economic operators and that this will speed up our economy. The budget for this project has been set. We hope it won't be broken, at least that. And, now that the opening of new companies of business operators will bring about a better economy, whether that money from the budget is going to be poured over to already existing or newly opened, unverified companies for the economy in general does not matter, but why the government would only entrust to the established economic operator the projects that we all consider to be of great importance and which is under the auspices of the state. We suspect that this has reopened space for abuse, corruption, burzars, and you come to me with contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36813	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic and Katarina Rakic, with a correction. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36814	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SNS Group agrees with the bill's proposal on the position that the good implications of this law certainly include a broader aspect of our country's overall development, a somewhat broader aspect that is reflected in that GDP rise, which we and the proposing representatives have spoken of, and today is 4.5% at the level of one quarter and has exceeded all expectations, but is measured by other good and significant parameters. When we talk about opportunities in the Republic of Serbia, and reducing unemployment and increasing employment, and increasing the average salary in the Republic of Serbia, measured in euros, and when it comes to the euro and the stable course, which has been holding stable value for six years and cannot even be compared to the chaotic period from 2008 to 2012, when it has changed its value by almost 50%. All of this, of course, directly affects the standard of living and these are the things that we today find to be significant and important results, the results resulting from joint actions. People engaged in the government and hired us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expect that you will make a significant contribution to positive percussions when it comes to important measurable statistics and in the period ahead. When we adopt this law and when it comes to intensive construction, we expect not only further GDP growth in the area of construction, but also significant social aspects. They've been commenting today on some of the average price of squares here. They should know that in the city of Belgrade, from municipality to municipality, the average price of squares is being checked in a few seconds, is not below 1000 euros, so compare it to these 500 maximums. Where he's cheaped up, right on those municipalities where he's going to be the site for this project, it's not under 1,500, 1,700 euros. Who doesn't understand that, I'm afraid, is unable to understand the other positive consequences. Thank you once again for the understanding of our amendment and for all the honor of the results.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36815	Thank you, colleague Orlic. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dalibor Radicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36816	Thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, amendment to Article 3. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces aims to further specify the draft law. Given that the work carried out by members of the security service is very specific, they need to be provided with basic existential conditions. Only relieved of our daily concerns are members of the Security Service able to do their job professionally, and how important it is that our country and our citizens are at a high level, we don't need to comment at all. We are all aware that in the previous period a large number of foreign investors have come to our country. Their importance is reflected in the fact that with the capital that they brought in industrial production, a large number of workers were employed. The unemployment rate currently stands at around 12%. It's still high, but if we look at it until five years ago it was significantly above 20%, then we see how important foreign investment is to us. It should also be noted that this percentage is expected to fall below 10% by the end of 2018. All of this wouldn't be possible if the security of the country wasn't at this level that it's at right now. Foreign investors would certainly not have invested their capital in our country if we were a highly risky country, and without foreign direct investment or industry in Serbia would not have recorded such results as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36817	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36818	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, People's MPs, our government and President Aleksandar Vukic do everything to keep the security of Serbian citizens at a high level, as well as to maintain peace and stability in the region. The housing for members of the security service is just one step away from many of the government of the Republic of Serbia is taking towards the road. The security of a country also affects the number of foreign tourists in a given country. Our Serbia can be commended for that. For the last weekend alone in Belgrade, over 15,000 foreign tourists visited Belgrade during the Financial Four basketball event. That says a lot about security within the borders of our country. An interest in such a sporting event wouldn't exist if security wasn't at a high level. Our government will continue to work to stimulate security services to do their job even better in the future, both through housing and through salary increases, equipping security officers with the most modern equipment. All of this indicates that this law in the voting day should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36819	Thank you. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dusko Tarbuk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36820	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to point out the importance of passing this law, how many housing problems will be solved for members of the security forces. I must say, I am pleased that neither in the principle debate, and here today, in the debate in detail on this bill, we have not heard any concrete objections, nor any fundamental objections to the very proposal of the law. It is clear that there is an intention to build these apartments, and it is clear that this intention can only be good, that the intention to make the price up to 500 euros per square metre can only be good and only deserves praise, and no criticism. It is normal to know that the price is up to 500 euros, because in Belgrade and Nis there cannot be the same price per square, either in Belgrade and Vranj. Of course, construction can't cost the same. On the other hand, I would point out that at least 80% of construction products and materials will be domestic producers. In this way, this law will also have positive effects on companies, namely the development of units of local self-government and the development of units of local self-government and the development of an economy in general. It is clear that the proposed fair conditions are, that there is an intention to prevent possible abuses, that they will persist in their intention to resolve the housing issue of security forces permanently. Work on such proposals shows that we now have a serious state in which members of defence and security will have the opportunity not only to school, but also to live at an envious level in apartments they will buy, which, of course, will subsidize the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36821	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Stanja Compirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36822	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces is governed by the conditions, manner and procedure of implementation of the project, which is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. Building apartments for security forces is one of the key measures to improve the material position of those who risk the most to make everyone in Serbia feel safe. Investors of building a residential building is the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, in Article 3 in point 15, I add the amendment: "The investment in the housing provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the judiciary. “ The main objective of the project is to improve the efficiency of the judiciary and to improve the work of judicial authorities - the introduction of new and improved work methodologies, improve communication with the public, improve professional competences and audits of the relevant legislative framework, the efficiency of the judiciary as a whole to the network of courts, and in general jurisdiction and the public prosecutor’s office. In order to improve the judiciary, it is certainly necessary to continue with the professional training of judicial holders in order to ensure that they adhere to the highest standards, competences, behaviours, integrity, professionalism and responsibilities. Without adequately trained administrative and technical staff in courts and public prosecutors, there is neither good quality nor effective work of all authorities, and therefore it is necessary to keep working on their training and professional training. The promotion, efficiency and quality of work, as well as the creation of a stimulating working environment, with the aim of achieving the best results, remain a priority in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36823	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36824	Honored Chairman, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, his amendment to Article 3. I wanted to point out one more thing than the obvious, which is the causal-consequential relationship that has the adoption of this law to economic, or economic growth. This initiative will result in additional employment of our builders, buying construction material, furniture, white technique. By creating a new value, the most beneficial will be the economy, and individuals, and thus the momentum is caught and we are standing in line with the growing economies of this part of Europe. With development projects, we are in a position to record unemployment reduction. Large projects like this, as well as "Belgrade on Water", bring income daily to thousands of families, i.e. bring income for the existence of the same. Our people are worth it, all they have to do is give them a chance to create an environment for each one of them to show off, and these conditions are precisely created by this government and our President Aleksandar Vukic. The special thing to point out is that this law stipulates that persons who were on security-structure jobs, before retirement, have the same conditions for resolving their housing issues as those who are active. In the end, I must repeat once again, that those who care about our safety deserve to think about them and by making such and similar laws make their standard of living the way they deserve to be. I ask my colleagues to accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36825	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Martinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party, of course, supports the adoption of this law, because in the recent past, the state has not taken care of members of the interior ministry, the defence ministry, the Serbian Army, the BIA and the criminal sanctions administration. A colleague, Orlic, has already pointed out that this law will have a multiple positive multiplier effect on the Serbian economy, there will be a significant increase in tax returns on a variety of grounds, there will be domestic growth, which is very important, the construction industry and a major existential problem will be solved by members of security forces, which is a residential issue. What the Serbian Progressive Party and its coalition partners also show by this law is that we are in practice in favour of Serbia's decentralisation. Not in words, but in deeds. So the apartments will not only be built in Belgrade, but also in a number of other cities in Serbia, from Novi Sad to Nis and Vranj, thus showing concern for all security forces working for the state of Serbia, as the state of Serbia extends from Sudotica to Bujanovac. They're wrong colleagues who criticise this bill from the point of view of the price of apartments. Because if that were the case, then we wouldn't need to put this law in the process at all, or discuss it. If the prices of apartments in Kraljev, Nis, Vranja, Novi Sad, as we could hear here, were less than 500 euros, which means 300, 400 euros, theoretically even 100 or 200 euros, then the security forces would be determined to buy these apartments in the Kingdom, Nis and Vranje 200 and 300 euros, but there are no such apartments. I think all Serbian citizens know that. Otherwise, members of the security force would not wait for this law to be passed, but would settle their housing issue greatly. What also challenges seems to be misunderstanding with a part of the fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, here they are dealing with different data on the number of dwellings to be built, losing sight of the fact that we are passing a law relating to the first phase of building apartments for security forces and at that first stage will be built, as Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic said, 1.578 apartments. After that, there are several next stages, when we will have more than 5,000 apartments built for members of the security forces. Someone can say, "But what's 1,500 apartments?" Surely that's something compared to the situation we had up to a few years ago, when there was no housing for security forces at all. Unfortunately, in 2012, we were left with one country in ruins and it's very difficult for a year, two or three to fix all the bad things that have been done or everything that has not been done and should have been done in the period from 2000 to 2012. But, Mr. Minister, this is a good start. We support you, as well as the entire Serbian government. We are convinced that the adoption of this law will strengthen the security capacity of the Republic of Serbia because, of course, in addition to quality and modern weapons, military equipment and military techniques, it is very important that you also have satisfied members of the security forces, and it can only be one member of the security force that has resolved its housing issue. This is one human aspect of security policy. So, besides, thanks to the Serbian government's policy, thanks to the policy of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, thanks to, after all, and your policy, we have succeeded or managed to do so ourselves, so our domestic dedicated industry, or itself, to make a whole series of new types of weapons and tools, and, on the other hand, we have received many quality weapons as a donation from our friends, above all from the Russian Federation. But I'm deliberately pointing out this human aspect, because it's very important, because a soldier besides having to be well armed, I think he needs to be solved for his housing problem. A better solution than this, I don't think there is. Utopia is talking about apartments that the state will build for free or give to someone for free. The time of socialism has passed, that self-government socialism as we know it. But if these were apartments whose price is absolutely acceptable to security forces, I think it is. You will hardly find a cheaper price of real estate on the market, anywhere in Serbia, especially in the countries of the region, and especially in the countries of the European Union, I am primarily referring to apartments offered by the Serbian Government through this bill. This was also about young couples and about how Aleksandar Vukic failed to fulfill his promise to build apartments for young couples. I hope that no one will get me wrong, but security forces are not grandparents, but some young people who work in the military and the police who work in the BIA, so that in this way and how they keep the promise of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, that we will have to build cheap apartments and young couples. So there are a lot of young people who have finished the Military Academy and have completed the Criminal Police Academy, who have graduated from law schools and those who have completed some other colleges, who have received a job in their profession and are working today as members of the Security Force. What else are these than young people, and what are their spouses, besides being young couples? So that collection in our recent past, which of those promises, and President Vukic didn't keep it, I don't think it can be found. We've fulfilled everything we promised. I understand fellow opposition officers who are trying to find some weakness in this bill, but you remember, Mr. Minister, they suspected that we would be able to consolidate our public finances, so we succeeded. They suspected that it was possible for Serbia to have a surplus in the budget without having any privatisation, so we showed that it was possible. They suspected that in three years we could... The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) Feel free to earn, I'm used to it from you. Don't ring the bell, Mr. Arsic. I'm used to the lady throwing it at me. So they suspected we could reduce unemployment from 26% to 12% in three years, so we did it. So there is no reason for Serbian citizens not to believe that we will succeed in this project as well. We have managed to solve much more difficult problems for the state of Serbia than building these apartments, so, Mr. Vulin, you will have the full support of the SNS parliamentary group and the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party to continue these good projects, which are good for our security forces, and especially for members of the security forces, for people of blood and meat, who have their own parents, who have their own children, and which the state, unfortunately, did not care about at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36827	Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Bojanich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36828	Thank you, Your Honor. Like all my amendments, and this one concerning sustainable development, I have made an amendment in Article 3 that says that "investment in housing provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving sustainable development". That it is just saying that it will be the most modern built apartments, that it will be respected, above all, in the construction and completion of the construction of energy efficiency. So it's going to be apartments, where we're going to save energy, where they're going to be arranged according to the latest and state-of-the-art standards of housing. Speaking of the Kings and mentioning the Kings, the settlement “Vocarare’s meadow, ” where apartments will be built, is part of the city of the Kings located in the village of Ribnica. It's something like Belgrade and New Belgrade. The pond is Novi Belgrade, located on the right side of the Ibar River, because the Ibar River divides the city into two parts. If it were an extremely attractive location, it also tells you that there are many interested investors for the mall and some other activities. As for the very price of apartments in the town of Kralje, you certainly can't find an apartment in a new building below 850 euros to 1,200. So that's the truth. Apartments built 30 years ago can be found from 600 to 800 again, 900 euros. As far as Ribnica is concerned, the settlement “Voćareva livada”, in “Voćareva livada” you only have individual residential building, there are no buildings there, and in Ribnica, I do not remember that a new building has been built in the last two years. So if there's real estate traffic, it's the old buildings that were built in the '70s, because in that part of the city, not that buildings weren't built, but now, after 50 years, we're renovating a school that was once intended to be an assembly facility and 50 years ago existed. Normally, the SNS has come to power and will create a new school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36829	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Collegine Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36830	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, when we talk about a project to build apartments for security forces, we have a broader consensus and it is a positive approach to the government's efforts to revitalise one category at a time. Everyone agreed that our security forces deserved home security for their families, but what is crucial is that someone should have provided money and conditions for the realization of a project like this, and that, ladies and gentlemen, did Alexander Vukic, leading a good economic policy. A wise and well-planned growth and development policy delivers its results. Many try to play patriots, sometimes see them in this room across the street, stop by and play a play, and then leave. Fortunately for this people, someone really does feel anxious, someone really does work really hard, someone really is the leader this people deserves. This is witnessed by all the friendships Serbia has in Europe and the world, thanks to Mr. Vukic, and this cannot be challenged. That's why the former government is angry. They crashed, we build. They were selling factories, we're opening up. They fired the workers, we're opening new jobs. It's a big difference, and the citizens of Serbia know it. That's why she's full of support for the project. The Bor Municipality is ready to take part in this project and thus provide a home for members of security and their family in Bor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36831	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Mitrovica, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36832	Dear Mr. Arsic, Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm on Article 3. The proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces submitted an amendment. The adoption of a special law on the realisation of this project will guarantee the conditions and procedures under which the project will be launched, since conditions, the way and the realisation itself begin at different locations at the same time. Also, the adoption of a special law will speed up the procedures for issuing works for construction, public procurement procedures, land expropriation procedures and I can say that the provisions of this law have an effect on domestic and foreign companies, entrepreneurs, public authorities, as well as banks and other financial institutions. Security forces will be affected so that all under equal conditions will be able to permanently address the housing needs, with the fulfillment of, of course, the prescribed conditions. In addition, it is important to note that the implementation of the project will affect GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth, given that the provisions of this law set out the obligation to participate domestic operators. Yesterday, I was saying that security forces were working under difficult and dangerous conditions in the land security zone, but I have to mention that security forces played a key role during the migrant crisis in the Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities and that we will be adequately disbursed to members of the security forces by solving their housing needs. I call on my fellow Members to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36833	Thank you. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) colleague Janošević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36834	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess, when I received a call for this session and saw the agenda points, I thought, finally all MPs will support these laws and we will definitely be unanimous. But it doesn't seem to be the case this time. Please tell me, give me one good reason why the gentlemen of the yellow company don't support us when we want to do such a good thing to pass a law regarding the provision of a roof over the head of people who devoted their lives to the moments when it was necessary. Now it takes a small way for us to repay them. In addition to having very important laws on the agenda, we have those that allow the development of roads and railways. I'm really proud of the fact that constantly on some of the roads, machines work, asphalting, building, and that's certainly the case in Zrenjanin. The reconstruction of the intersection on the Aradic road has recently been completed, and all Zrenjanins know how important it is for that stock, which has completed the reconstruction of the road between Zrenjanin and Novi Sad. I therefore submit this amendment which will further improve the draft law at point 3, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36835	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Veljkovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36836	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the concept of housing and housing needs can be viewed from a social, economic and political point of view. The social meaning of the apartment comes from the fact that the apartment is a primary human need, and that without an apartment it is impossible to imagine the life of a man and a family, as well as that the apartment is irreplaceable, so everyone would have to have it. As a result, the social significance of housing and housing implies various state and social aids and support that are present in almost the whole world, regardless of the country's development. The economic evaluation of apartments and dwellings comes from the apartment as a good long-term consumption that promotes production and employment by building it, and in the phase of use, creating better living and working conditions, contributes to increasing labour efficiency. The proposed law, in addition to the primary objective that is to be achieved, is to address the housing needs of security employees who have failed to resolve their housing issue for decades, the effects of its adoption will be manifestly manifested to all economic operators and all state authorities, as well as a number of other interested persons. At the same time, adoption of the proposed law will also contribute to increasing credit activity within the banking sector, as expectations are that the largest number of security forces in the housing sector will be realised through credit debt, which will have a financial effect on the overall economy. In addition to these global affirmative effects, it should be pointed out that housing in the sector is also very important for local development, as construction and other activities in the housing sector activate significant economic potentials of different industries. For all of these reasons, the realisation of the project is the public interest of the Republic of Serbia, but it is also the public interest of the Republic of Serbia to deal with the problems of displaced persons by its active measures, institutionalally and systematically, which has been working with success for two decades, creating assumptions for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36837	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Olivera Pesic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. My colleague Zeleg, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36838	I thank the chairman. To Article 3. The proposal for a law on special conditions for the realisation of housing projects is an amendment that would define that in point 15, paragraph 1, which provides for impact analysis, investment in housing, which provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia led, the SNS proposes another in a series of laws, which, in addition to resolving the concrete and multi-annual existential problem of a large number of people working in the Security Service sector. Realisation of this project plans a multi-phase building of apartments at affordable prices for people who do the most important and risky work, which is keeping peace and order throughout the country. Investment in housing, in addition to the effects that will have on businesses through greater consumption of construction material in the realisation of projects in all cities in Serbia that will be built, will involve domestic enterprises, and the law foresees so-called. “vendor” list, i.e. the list of materials to be used in building buildings, which are to the greatest extent domestic production, so that the application of this provision provides a positive effect on the construction operation. It will also contribute to the urban construction land managed by the investor in this case by the Republic of Serbia, pour into the budgets of local self-government, thus providing a larger budget for infrastructure investment in the cities in which housing will be carried out. In order to accept the proposed amendment, for the sake of more effective application of the proposed law, I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36839	Thank you. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36840	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, honourable MPs, when Aleksandar Vukic in 2015, then said as prime minister that the Serbian government would have to isolate from the 11.6 billion dinar budget for the robbery that former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and others made to military pensioners, many wondered why he was doing it. Why does he, as then prime minister and then Serbian government, have to correct the injustice that another government has done many years earlier towards military pensioners? The answer to that question was simple. That's how the responsible prime minister and the responsible government do it. Today, when this proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces once again, according to the idea of Alexander Vukic, a systematic solution to this problem, accumulated many years earlier, some wonder again why? Why again do you bear the greatest burden of solving something that anyone else had to do? The answer is the same again, that's how the responsible authorities do it. Leading by the logic of some earlier set of government from that DOS coalition that then claimed they didn't need an army, that wars would never be, in that logic and healthy people never need doctors. They only need doctors and doctors when they get sick. That logic led them when they completely ignored the army, all the needs of the army, even ignored resolving the housing issue of military persons, pensioners and all other security forces. So if we ever need an army in the future, we have to build it today, if we want a safe Serbia, we have to build security today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36841	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36842	We need the military just like all security services always in peace and when there is no peace, because there is no country, there is no organised stable, secure country that has no strong security structure, no functioning, no organized society without strong security structures. Everything you invest in security structures comes back multiple times. It returns through the quality of people who care about our security, returns through the stability you have in one country, and without stability you can't even have economic development, you can't even have political development, you can't have anything unless you have a safe and stable country. You have rightly mentioned this case, it is not the case, but a boastfulness of the DOS government that has taken away billions from military pensioners, refusing to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and that Alexander Vukic has now insisted and taken over the obligation and then issued a warrant to me as resolute minister at the time, to find a way to agree with military pensioners not to go to courts, to avoid court costs, but to pay what is owed to them. We paid them what they were owed. A debt that we didn't make, but Alexander Vukitch found a way to repay the debts that others made. Thanks to such a policy, we are renewing the army, thanks to such a policy we can buy and remount both the moments and all the other systems we need, but we can also commit ourselves to every single person in all our security structures, to think about both his apartment and his education and his treatment, to take care of what kind of uniform he has, what kind of boots he has. From small to large, but we take care. That's how responsible authority behaves, and thank you for noticing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36843	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36844	Thank you. With pride and satisfaction, I can say that at the third session of the ceremony in the Assembly of the City of Leskovci today, 100 badges and thank-yous of the country were handed to soldiers from the territory of the town of Leskovec, giving them the recognition of their voluntary service of the military period 2014/2015. A year. The badges and thank-you cards were handed to soldiers by Regional Centre of the Ministry of Defence Chief Niš, Colonel Nenad Markovic and Mayor of the town of Leskovci, Dr Goran Cvetanovic. In co-operation with the City, the Regional Centre of the Ministry of Defence Nis successfully realised a public competition and a selection of candidates for voluntary military service with weapons. More than 8,000 candidates have applied for the competition, and volunteering has served more than 1,500, while currently 470 candidates or just over two candidates are waiting for a single seat. The Regional Centre of the Ministry of Defence Nis referred to military service with weapons more than all centres, nearly half of the total number of candidates. The choice of candidates was made according to strictly defined criteria in accordance with the provisions. The competition was fierce, especially for women's soldiers. Dear Ministers, this clearly shows that people from southern Serbia, especially the Jablani County and the City of Leskovec, are always going to the country's call with a patriotic and courageous heart. Then Leskovac, as the seventh city, is to be placed in cities where apartments for security forces will be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36845	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Mrdaković Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36846	Thank you, Chairman. The bill on mass housing for our security forces will systemically solve their decades-long housing problems. It will solve them in the long term and in many ways facilitate their lives, and of course it is taking back other positive effects, such as better and different lives, safer future, improving living standards, opportunities for family planning, etc. Realising a project to build apartments for security forces creates preconditions for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the country, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia run a socially responsible policy, recovery policy and the modernisation of society. That's a fact. I am sure that citizens expect us to have these and similar legal solutions, recognising the fact that this country is finally going in the right direction after many ruined and missed years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36847	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36848	Thank you. I would like to welcome the Serbian government's decision to launch an apartment building project under favourable conditions for members of the security forces. This is one in a number of examples that the government shows its determination and intends to start solving specific citizens' problems. One of the most important problems in an individual’s life and family is the housing issue. Also, it is very good that military pensioners will also be involved in this project to build 20,000 apartments for security forces. I remind the public that several thousand former JNA members live in Serbia, after the Yugoslav Army, and now military pensioners who were forced and forced to leave their apartments that they had in the countries that originated in the former Yugoslavia. These people live 20, 25 years and more in very bad and humiliating conditions, in some barracks, hostels, old schools. No government from 1995 to 2012 paid attention to these people. This is indeed a commendable initiative and the intention of the Serbian government to include these several thousand military pensioners and their families in this project, and finally those people who fought honorably for Serbia, the Serbian people finally resolve their housing issue and live a life worthy of man. I want to remind the public that the government, that the current government and previous two governments, since 2012, has been implementing a very important, large and human project to address the housing issue of the exiled Serbs. I remind you that over half a million expelled Serbs live in Serbia from Croatia, the Federation of BiH and over 200,000 internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. In the previous period, the realisation of the regional housing programme took place in four sub-projects of building apartments, the assignment of house installations, the assignment of rural estates and the assignment of packages of construction material. What I am calling for and what I am asking is for the lower instance, so the Commission for Refugees of the Government of Serbia, the project management unit, to implement more quickly, more effectively and efficiently the Serbian Government's decision to build housing units and address the housing needs of the expelled Serbs. There are also certain problems in the implementation of this project and similar projects. Here is Mrs. Damnjanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction, with whom I had several talks in the previous period, and we still haven't solved the 530 families in seven cities, which have been waiting for eight years to receive the right to buy out apartments in which they live. I expect that Mrs Damnjanovic, along with Mrs Mihajlovic and Mr Djordjevic, will find time to sit down again and see ways to resolve the issue. It is not correct, it is not fair that over three thousand refugee families were given the right to buy their housing units, and these 530 did not win, and the problem was made, unfortunately, in 2006, by then, by Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic, who in one shameful way changed the memorandum of co-operation signed by the government of Serbia and the Government of Italy, under which refugee families, these 530 families, had the right to buy out in seven Serbian cities. That memo has been changed. We are now only fighting to correct this injustice and that this shameful decision by Mr. Velja Ilic is changed and that people are given the opportunity to be the owners of these apartments. The Serbian government is indeed doing everything to solve the problems of the biggest war victims in the former Yugoslavia. Of course it doesn't go overnight and we lost a lot of time from 1995 to 2012 when these problems were to be solved. It is a shame that since 1995, the Serbian government has not brought in a state programme and clearly said – we will not allow these people to be refugees, they are nothing to blame, instead of being tenants, we will enable them to buy cheap loans to the rural property, buy apartments, and those people would return, of course, those funds to their country. Just as the Serbian government is now bringing this project where security forces will be able to buy apartments under favourable conditions, so the government of Serbia could in 1995, 1996 and 2001 and 2004, therefore both the Government of Zoran Djindjic and the Government of Zoran Zivkovic and the Government of Boris Tadic and the Government of Vojislav Kostunica, the Government of Cvetkovic. Unfortunately, no one took care of it. This government is trying to solve it. I repeat, it is not easy, it takes time, but the exiled Serbs should not doubt the authority's determination to do everything in its power to address the key issue of the expelled Serbs, members of the security forces, and that is the housing issue. I especially want to highlight the importance and importance, and I believe that in the next step, the government will certainly do this, bring a new Lex specialis where we will especially include the most vulnerable categories of the population in Serbia, so these are wartime military people, these are families of fallen fighters, for them too, there must be one programme to allow them to resolve their housing issue under favourable conditions. I repeat, these are men who fought honorably for their country, for their people. Unfortunately, previous authorities, the previous regimes did not resolve this. This government, this government, has a lot of these accumulated unresolved problems, it's starting to solve them. What's important is that citizens have patience. I believe that, within a reasonable time frame, a number of the problems I've been talking about will be solved, and the most important question for that population is the housing issue and that they can live a life of a worthy man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36849	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36850	When it comes to military pensioners, it's very important that we know. So we have one category of people who came from the former republics of SFRY, who have been expelled in various ways, who have retreated with their armies, but you also have a significant number of military pensioners who have worked in the space of Serbia, who have spent their working lives here, moved with their families where the military has told them that they are working and could not simply solve their housing issues. When he, you know, spends his entire career by constantly changing the place of residence, hoping that one day eventually the system will do for him what he promised and that at least in the end it will be permanently taken care of and permanently solved. A lot of these people didn't do it. Almost every day I meet members of the pension population of military pensioners who have waited 30 years for an apartment, so it's a big deal when it happens now, and so it's important that they get their chance here, both them and their families. It's very important for their families. I must say, the truth is, President Vukic insisted that pensioners enter this law. They were not covered earlier, but for his insistence, military pensioners entered this law, precisely because he rightly felt that these people had to be thanked for all the years they spent working. An MP from Leskovec asked the question when Leskovac, why not cover it. It will be covered when local self-government makes everything necessary available. To know that the Army is looking for 128 apartments in Leskovac. Surely the police have, therefore, every economic justification to do so again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-22-0.u36851	Thank you. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 11.00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 89 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs, Stefana Miladanovic and Professor Marko Atlagic. We continue the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that for the purpose of the search in detail of the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the project for building apartments for members of the Security Forces, all members of the Government are invited to attend. We're moving on to the amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
