ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50215	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 77 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall and we can continue our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Hadzhi Milorad Stosic and Gordana Comic. We're continuing our work. We move on to a search in detail on item 1 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE CENTRAL REGISTRAL OF THE OBLIGATION OF SOCIAL OBLIGATION According to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings today are being attended by the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and their associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure rejects amendments of the People's MPs: Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraje, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic to the titles of chapters I to XIV. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. At the title of the Amendment Law, a Member of the Verica Radeta submitted. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today starting a debate in detail and in order to remind the public, first of all, we are expected to talk about the budget of the Republic of Serbia because that is what the topic is, but we will only talk about some 500 and some amendments to this Law on the central register of compulsory social security. To be clear, we from the SRS have submitted a lot of amendments to this law simply because we do not want to participate in the debate. We know, as we are used to, that MPs will praise the authorities through these amendments, and we will do as much time as we allow us to tell what our objections to power are and what our grudges are, among other things, and on the draft budget. We have been through a principle debate in the absence of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which is absolutely inadmissible, with respect to the fact that these three ministers who are still here today have spent almost all these days with a brief departure from the session here in the National Assembly, but simply none of these ministers could answer the questions that we needed to answer to Anna Brnabic. Also, there's no one here from the Deputy Prime Minister, which is also unacceptable. We know that Ana Brnabic and the other vice presidents have been banned from coming to the Assembly these days to avoid the presence of Rasim Ljajic and our question and Ana Brnabic and Vučić and Ljajic – is it possible that he is still the Deputy Prime Minister and after he has appointed this Djuž as president of the Bosniak National Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50217	Thank you. The word is Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50218	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106 of Paragraph 1 which says - the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The agenda item, i.e. the topic, is the Central Register of Obligation Social Insurance. The previous speaker obviously didn't talk about it. She talked about everything else. Unfortunately, we didn't start out the way the amendments should be discussed. I expected we'd have a better discussion, given that we have 62th law on the agenda, that it's on the agenda and budget. All we can see is that there are only two opposition MPs in the O.R. There are far more of us on this side of the government, so they didn't approach this subject seriously either. That's the only thing I can say about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50219	Thank you, MP. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The Belief of Radet's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50220	Article 107. The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured for three reasons. First, we're not talking about the Central Register today, we're talking about the draft law on the central register of mandatory social security. Secondly, we today, or at this session, had no proposals of the 62nd Law, but a total of 62 points where there was a law, where there was an agreement, where there was a decision. So the MP who just spoke has no idea what's on the agenda. It is particularly offensive for the SRS MPs to say that only two MPs of the opposition are sitting here. It seems to me that this is how he sent the message to the ruling majority, but you will see what you will do with Rasim Ljajic and this MP of his. Here are the SRS MPs as the most serious opposition to the government and the largest opposition political party in the National Assembly. If it bothers anyone, we can't help them, but it is, and it is a fact. Of course, these Ljajic MPs have a problem because it is certain that because of this affair we opened when it comes to Rasim Ljajic they will probably have problems with who will be on the next list. I just can't believe that after this, Alexander Vukic would put them on his list, and then they're now trying to get some sort of a courtship, whether individually, whether as a group, they're putting them somewhere, but their problem is that in the next election, no one will. It won't be on anyone's list. Neither will those of this alliance because they've moved to SNS, to the SNS government, because then they're actually...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50221	Time. Thank you. Two minutes, enough. According to the Rules of Procedure, Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50222	It is now just a year as it started with this practice, i.e. how the ruling majority started with this practice of submitting amendments to the first members of the first item of the agenda, always over 300 or 350, so that 300 times two would be spent those 600 minutes scheduled for discussion in particular. It is sometimes not so clear, especially in the TV broadcast, that citizens can't see it when some controversy takes place, debates about the Rules of Procedure and the like, but essentially since then, here for a year exactly, every session and every point is actually contaminated by this practice that I repeat and emphasize, whether or not someone like it is nowhere in the parliamentary world, that the ruling majority submits amendments to their laws, that then the Government rejects these amendments to us, and thus deny the possibility of an opposition to discuss certain concrete matters. What exactly does that mean in practice? We now have a draft budget among all other points, as the most important thing, which this Assembly brings and should bring over one year and which directly affects citizens' lives. There's a lot of things in that budget. Some are good, some are less good, some are acceptable, some are less acceptable, but it is unusual, I would say scandalously, in any case very bad, that these arguments for and against will not be discussed in particular, but what we said in principle. For example, I believe that the 250m-euro item for the national stadium is wrong, there should be much higher priorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50223	MP, I won't let you discuss a item that isn't on the agenda right now. We're discussing details.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50224	Yeah, but that's the point of my speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50225	The point of your speech is that you refuse to spend your time on a bill that is in the focus of your interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50226	On the contrary, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50227	Do not mutilate the water here as someone prevents you from talking about the agenda point that you are interested in and about the amendment that you have possibly proposed on the funds allocated to the construction of a national stadium, so you are giving yourself the freedom to talk about it on the amendment to Article 1. A bill of law that we started to discuss. So I am obliged to direct the MPs to speak on the amendment proposed here at the first point. And the point is, what's that for? I want to say what I want, because I don't want to sit down when there's a draft budget bill. I cannot allow public fiction about the work of parliament to be placed here, and that is exactly what MPs are involved in. I don't know if you understand me. I think you understood me perfectly what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50228	President, I understand, but I don't know if you understand or if you're aware of what this debate looks like in detail all these 12 months ago. So, amendments are submitted that have nothing to do with the budget, and we won't make it to the budget. That's why I wanted to distract you. You can take my word from me, you can punish me, like your colleague did, but I think the public should know that we are not going to be able to discuss the most important and serious things about the budget, because all the time it's going to go to the first place...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50229	I must interrupt you because you are again false about the work of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. We work strictly for all 12 months, but strictly according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and everyone has as much time as he has won in the elections, no less. If you have amendments that you have written at a certain point in the agenda, you take advantage of your time or time that you have obtained by making some new parliamentary groups and talk about it, but do not say here that something is not in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, when it is strict, find me the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which do not correspond to the way of work of prey in the last 12 months. Get me the exact provisions and say them here publicly, the member of that, the attitude of that, etc. You will not find them, and consult with colleagues from the Alliance for Serbia now, and before that, who wrote this Rules of Procedure. The one most often sits in front of you when he comes here for a meeting, Nenad Konstantinovic, talk to him, and he will certainly spread his Rules of Procedure better than I do, because who else will if not he who is the creator of the Rules of Procedure. He certainly knows what his intention was when he wrote it. And Mrs Gordana Comic was in the task force. Everyone sits near you when they come, so nice to finally clear up the situation with them. I would ask you to spare your time and use it at the moment when it is mostportunistic to you and tell the citizens of Serbia what bothers you. I can't think of another time when you didn't win it in the election. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, this is for who knows which time Article 107, advertising a violation of dignity. For me, this is a serious violation of dignity if a fellow MP contests our political rights. So, every man, every full-time citizen, except when forbidden by law, has the right to be chosen and elected, has the right to political rights. He's been contesting our amendment for days. Article 161 states that each MP, the legislator, has the right to submit amendments. He'd want only him here and that only they could propose amendments without us having the right to do so. The assembly consists of 250 MPs and each of them has equal rights, though, MP clubs like his and mine have a little more rights than SNS. The Serbian Progressive Party has a total time of 130 and a few minutes on the table and some MPs, 1.3 minutes. My parliamentary group and Mr Vukadinovic's group have a total of me, I think, about five minutes per MP. So in a certain way small groups are already favored. But for days he's been contesting our right to propose amendments, he wants us to sit down, and if he talks, because that's his job, as he told me as a farmer, he doesn't have the right to be in the Assembly, and it's his job, that I'm supposed to be plowing, digging, sitting in front of a store and drinking beer. Ladies and gentlemen, this is dangerous, they're talking about Fascism, and they think there are MPs here in the Assembly with special rights like him, that they can only propose amendments and interpret, and that we just have to listen to his wisdom. I'm not asking you to vote on this. In the future, take care of the accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50231	Do you want to vote? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50232	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I do not think the amendment submitted by the representatives of the SRS should be accepted because it is something absurd, since they are asking to amend the name of the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. I don't know how different it's supposed to be the title of alterations and additions, and in fact, this is essentially about politics and the functioning of the SRS at the moment. It's one rental party that doesn't care about Serbia's interests, they don't care about the amendment itself, or as an institution that can change one law, but only to appear and to practically determine what they are for, and I'll say they're a dying party. They're using every position, including this one. I think it is something that is inadmissible, that at one delicate moment for Serbia and for the Serbian people, one party led by Vojislav Seselj is acting this way, because he brings himself down to one realist star who is aware that her party is losing in all elections and cannot reach censorship, is able to gamble with the interests of the Serbian people. The Social Democratic Party will defend every nationalism, negative and every desire for Serbia to stray from the European path, with the adoption of quality European laws that will help all citizens of this country live better and, of course, live in prosperity, in unity, in something that Serbia had a truly long-standing, centuries-old tradition. (Miss Radeta: Replica. ) (Imanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50233	Replica. The Belief of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50234	Ladies and gentlemen, we just heard everything, nothing about the amendment, but of course it's absolutely the right of the MP and we don't object, just let everyone say what they think they need to say. I will quote a sentence – the decision to enter the ruling bloc is morally discriminatory, but I chose between survival and the disappearance of the SDPS. That's what Rasim Ljajic said on June 19th 2012, when he asked Boris Tadic to allow him to join the SNS. Of course he didn't get that consent, and then he said himself that what he was doing was questionable from a moral point of view. And before that, he said he would be an immoral man if he left the Democratic Party and bowed down to the then ruling SNS bloc. Now, I'm really asking these moral giants do they at least get a little red when we remind them of what happened that 19th of June 2012? It is hardly possible for Mr. Bačevac to blush, he defends Rasim Ljajic with all his strength, he has reason. Because Rasim Ljajic allowed him, for example, to create a magnificent villa on Sutjeska Street in Novi Pazar and imagine it on the sidewalk. The street was real, but now where the house of Muamer Bačevac was made a corner to bypass his house, so that all the people who use that street would have to make that turn. Which is also important. That huge house was built without a building permit. So the rest of you from that Ljajic party, if you don't have that kind of problem, take care of who you support and why you do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50235	Thank you. Time. Rules of Procedure, please, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50236	Mrs. Gojkovic, a member of 107 has been violated who speaks of everyone being obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50237	The 107th article was used right before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50238	He's been broken, let me finish my sentence, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50239	Yeah, but you have to call on...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50240	You've also violated Article 27, you've violated 107, you've violated Article 103(3). Is Mrs. Gojkovic enough?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50241	Article 103(3) only.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50242	Let me explain, once someone pointed out that member's injury, it doesn't mean that by the end of the session he can no longer point to a member's injury. So, I'm not talking about a provision called by someone from the SDPS at the beginning of the session, but just before my presentation, you've hurt because you've allowed the ruling coalition MP in the worst possible way to insult both the National Assembly and the SRS MPs and all the citizens of Serbia. If it is okay for you, Mrs Gojkovic, to say that the SRS is a hired party, if it is not offensive for you, if it is not offensive to say that it is a dying party, if it is not offensive to say that it is a party that does not care about the interests of Serbian citizens, I do not know what it is. And will you have the same archaic when MPs of opposition parties speak so of ruling parties? It's scandalous that you didn't interrupt this man, that you allowed him to insult both the president of the SRS and the MPs and all the citizens who voted. It's in the transmission, everybody heard it. So I repeat a question for you – is it okay to say that the party sitting in the NSRS is a tenant? Nemanja Sarovic: You are obliged to interrupt it. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50243	Thank you. I wouldn't be leading the controversy with either you or the SPDS parliamentary group. If I were an EU representative now, I would ask both sides to pay attention, making efforts to calm the situation. That I am an EU representative, which I am not, but on behalf of Parliament, I ask you to return to the agenda and discuss the amendments. I think that's what the citizens expect from us. Of course, I can't influence. (Muamer Bacevic: Replica.) Who do you want to replicate to? The Belief of Radetti. Do you want Nemanja Sarovic to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (I Nemanja Sarovic: I want to make a statement to the citizens. Do you want to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50244	I don't want to go undercover. Yes, I do, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50245	Thank you. Just without aggression please, we will work long and keep the temperament for those days. I mean you and your health. The word is Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50246	To attack me for honor, education, courtesy, persuasion, it is the same to prove to you that Mr. Seselj is not a convicted war criminal, has not served 10 years in prison and has not become a reality star that in every way defiles what Serbia I love, Serbia from which I have taught, the Serbia I represent, has done through history and does today. A real star and a fake duke. Call yourself the Duke, after Stepa Stepanovic is desecration. Seselj, gentlemen, dear and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have driven out one Croatian family, the Brbalic family... (The Faith of Radeta: How, how?) ) Barbalic from Zemun during the Radicals were in power in Zemun. There you go. Nemanja Sarovic: What is this? And he moved his closest associate into that same apartment. That's what a man's about. That is how they defend the interests of the Republic of Serbia, by kidnapping someone else, by kidnapping what belongs to another citizen of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the party would have led this country on, but we're going to end it, the SDPS and all the other parties that want this country to be a regulated state and to make the right laws. It is precisely the proposal to change the name of the law that speaks of the objectlessness of their desire to do anything quality. In the legislation, their only goal, their leader's sole goal is to charge a little more money and take a racket from which he can, because he knows that the political past is on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50247	Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. ) (Imanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. ) Replica, the Verse of Radeta seeks, direct address was Muamer Bacec, and he spoke directly. I apologize, Verice, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50248	Mrs. Gojkovic, you also violated article 108. He obliges you as the President of the People's Assembly to set forth measures for those MPs who violate order and who insult other messengers. You missed out on the basis of which Muamer Bacevac got his word. Apparently, he was entitled to a replica, which he had no right to, because he had previously been replicated by the Faith of Radet. There are no replicas on the line, even in the Rules of Procedure, provided that the Rules of Procedure apply in this part of the sitting, and you insist on derogating it by your actions. The second thing, you, Mrs. Gojkovic, when you act as chairman, regardless of personal sympathy or antipathy, you are obliged to protect every MP. You allowed the ruling coalition MPs for the president of the main opposition parliamentary party to say it was a false duke, to charge for a racket, and to allegedly have some Croatian family illegally kicked out of an apartment in Zemun. At the time, you were the vice president of the SRS and you should know that the court proved, after years of trial, that has passed all the court cases in Serbia that what Muamer Bačevac said is an absolute lie. How are you not ashamed to allow... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50249	Here, I'm ashamed this session looks like this. Nemanja Sarovic: Why did you let it look like that? Ambassador, don't read me a lesson. Nemanja Sarovic: Let me finish. No, no, no, I'm running a session, not someone who's louder and who's violently trying to get me to do it one way or the other. Don't shout, I let too much at the beginning of the session and the end. You have spoken one notorious lie. There's no replica on the replica. Well, what have we been doing here for the last five, six years then I just don't understand how there's no replica on the line? I don't suppose there's a replica in the Rules of Procedure's breach. Secondly, MP Bačevac received his word, as he was personally mentioned several times in the presentation of your deputy head of the parliamentary group, Mrs Verice Radeta. Don't look at the Rules of Procedure where I've made a mistake right now, but listen to your colleague. You're young, you'll hear something. So, if someone directly mentions and talks about him alone, they have the right to answer. Secondly, you are not the one to answer, but, eventually, it is the Messenger of the Witch of Radet. And you're giving yourself the freedom to lead your parliamentary group, which is obviously the problem of the parliamentary group, not mine. I'm taking a break now for 10 minutes, because I want to discuss the bill, not listen to the circulation of MPs about violations of the Rules of Procedure and each other. Nemanja Sarovic: It's a tirada? It's a tirad, you're harassing me at my job. It's called mobing politically, let me translate it for you. [[after breaks]] Ambassador Radeta, you on the amendment, since the replicas, did I stop it? Thank you. At the title of the Amendment Law, Natasa Sp submitted a National MP. Jovanovic. Here you go, Natasha.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50251	The minister came out, but we have to start a very serious topic when it comes to mandatory social security, because the Registrar, they had it, they didn't have it, it's now a completely technical law and one basis for an insight into what's going on with mandatory social security. But what's the problem in Serbia today? The problem is all those who are not able because of the extremely difficult social situation and the economics to pay mandatory social security. At the end of May of this year, farmers in Serbia began to come up with solutions for mandatory social security, and it is an average of 6,000 dinars per month. In Serbia today, there are 370,000 registered owners and those who should pay social security on that basis, but only 50 to 70,000, since not all quarters of this financial year can end. The others can't, because they don't have where. You have to deal with it, and instead of having a special law that will directly refer to farmers as a special category, and very endangered in society, we are now discussing something that is a technical matter. After all, Mrs Gojkovic, I think that when you think about it, and all of your colleagues in your parliamentary group, it is urgent that the government's reconstruction is done, that as a suitcase, some ministers fly out, as well as Rasim Ljajic, who today said he's tired of politics, as if he's been plowing and digging for 18 years, and not making world combinations, and in the end, there's only that box, that he's headed the drug clan in Novi Pazar and Serbia at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50252	The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want to talk about his amendment? No, I don't. ) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title of the law and suggested that it be called - the Central Register Act in the area of mandatory pension, disability and health insurance. However, what would be a prerequisite for today's debate is, above all, that we do not have the Prime Minister Ana Brnabic present, and I will remind the citizens of Serbia, but also you as chairman, that in one debate, we have, in fact, united the debate on 62 different proposals, which is law, which is a choice decision, etc. The condition for uniting the discussion of two laws is that they are conditioned by one another. These solutions are definitely not conditional on each other, but what they are is that the budget is the most important law of the year, that is, in developed democracies, where the rules of parliamentary democracy are respected, it is the most important law. Why? Because this is an opportunity for all MPs to resolve the government, to ask for every expense, for every proposal, and to actually, in this way, thoroughly search the situation throughout the country, and in all areas of life. We, of course, are not able to do that this year either. We're not too big a deal because who knows what year in a row doesn't have a final account. There is a serious question as to why we are even discussing the budget, and the budget is essentially nothing more than a plan to spend funds in the state. Unless there's never a final bill, unless you've never passed the accounts that you've really spent the funds and what the budget means if you present us with one without the obligation to lay down your accounts at the end of the financial year and to let us know really how you spent the funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50254	The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj to the title of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic to the title of the bill. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to point out here, and I have repeatedly pointed out the government's poor practice of bringing together and uniting into a single debate dozens and dozens of legislative proposals. This is still the case today, and it would somehow pass if in the flood of the legislative proposals for today's agenda and the draft budget law. Certainly the most important law of every government for the year for which it is brought. They would somehow accept it if we had those 10 hours of time planned for the discussion in particular, that we could talk about the draft budget law, not the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. Every law is important because it regulates a certain area, but we are going to spend these 600 minutes for this kind of debate on this law, couldn't we talk about something the minister put out here last week, which sounds nice, and it really sounds nice, which is about the unemployment rate of 11.3% or about 370,000 new citizens of Serbia for the last four years. It's really nice to hear it, but is it spoken just because people like to hear it, because I don't think it's exactly trust our statistics, which is in the increasingly accurate choice, the exact number, or the incorrect data. I will continue through the following amendments to the Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50256	At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50257	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have started a debate in detail on the first item of the 62nd agenda, namely the draft law, agreement and decision, and unfortunately we will only discuss it, while the draft bill on the budget that represents the most serious draft of the law will not come up with a word to discuss those amendments that we have made and we have prepared very seriously. Many budget items are incomplete and unsaid and much remains incorrectly stated. One of the hidden items in the budget is the financing of the Bosniak National Council of Esad Djuže, which advocates Serbia's further split, which is at least scandalous. When the bill of law...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50258	MPs, it's not in this bill, you missed the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50259	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50260	Yeah, 100%.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50261	Okay, can I get on with it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50262	You can continue but save that amendment and that explanation for the draft budget law, and here you missed the topic, because it is not in the bill of law in the title of the bill you asked for to be amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50263	When the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security is at issue to ensure more effective control of the collection of social security contributions, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system, we have tried to improve this proposal. We gave you most of the amendments that you refused and would ask if you in the government were at all talking about what we Serbian radicals are insisting on, various criminal affairs in this case, affairs related to Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50264	At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50265	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have years of experience as a MP, and until this morning, I did not know that MPs had no right to submit an amendment to the title of the law. It doesn't surprise me much, if someone can call themselves an MP, make the corners of the right street wrong, so suggest it, or argue, it's not surprising. But, Mr. Minister, I'd like to debate with you a little bit right now, sounds like a nice law on the central register of mandatory social security, and did you, through the tax administration as a competent minister, check that if an entrepreneur is identified as the owner of a particular store, that he receives a personal income, or profit, that he pays 80% of the commitment to his income. So, for one dollar, 80% or 80 bucks, he pays. What is the obligation of the Central Register, then we can talk, not the employees of some small, minor reduction of 58.75%. We Serbian radicals know why you are introducing this Central Register. We're not saying it's unnecessary, you're introducing him for more effective tax control. We're not against tax obligations being paid, there's a record of those who can't do it, to see if the state has a chance to help them, and those who don't want to do it, to be sanctioned. Since they have made a point to us that we have no right to propose amendments to the law that we are now discussing, here I am, not consulting with my MP group, but I am very happy to give up and withdraw this amendment if the minister would explain to me that in this Central Register he will be able to recognize that one vice-president of the government is the leader of drug dealers and we fear there will be no more. Mr. Minister, if you explain that he is visible in this register, then we will give up the amendment that I have submitted, so we will not change the law. We'll have enough of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50266	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50267	Thank you, Chairman. On the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, the SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment proposing that the title be changed so that it reads - the Single Register of Obligatory Social Insurance. In the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is currently subject to the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, which was adopted in 2010, "The Official Messenger", number 30/2010. It is important to point out that in 2010, when this law was first passed, Article 5 was defined as providing funds to carry out the Central Registry's activities from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the social policy ministry, while the minister of labour and social policy was Rasim Ljajic. In 2014, two amendments and additions to this Act were made to "The Official Messenger", 44/2014 and 116/2014. Among other things, Article 5 defined the funds to carry out the Central Register's work as being provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the division of the finance ministry. The independent member of the law and the amendments and additions to the "Official Messenger" has been defined by - the ministry responsible for social policy, within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, to register the equipment and means of work referred to in Article 1 of its business books. The Ministry of Finance Affairs shall record the equipment and means of work referred to in Article 1 in its accounts following the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 2(2). Today, there has been no accounting for these funds in the bill of law that is before us today. Article 45 contains the same provisions as in the 2014 amendments and amendments. Only members of the law are different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50268	The word is Secretary Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50269	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, a few clarifications about this law and the way the Central Register works. So, first of all, the Central Register was established and defined by the 2010 Law and its very name was also defined by the same law, so there is no need to change it. In the meantime, he's alive and the whole system is working the way he's supposed to work. What is important is that it is known that all those who want to report mandatory social security, whether it is an employer or an employee, and you have on their portal and information that you can get about how much contributions are paid to compulsory social security. I think some of you who have asked this question give an answer to the question whether and how information can be obtained as much as anyone has received, or paid contributions to compulsory social security. What is important is, too, that the government of the Republic of Serbia's efforts are being directed, and therefore the amendment of this law, so that all registers work together, so that they communicate with each other. When I say registers, I mean both from the tax administration and from this register and from all the other registers through the so-called so-called. an e-portal or e-Government, where Serbian citizens no longer need to go after different documents than that system, i.e. the state through e-Government and electronic documents to work for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50270	At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50271	Before I explain my amendment, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the MPs of the party Rasim Ljajic, who left the session or fled from it, are still registered in the system. So I can see from my place at least five MP cards that have been inserted, so it wouldn't be bad for someone to take them out of the system who's in charge of it. Let's get back to the amendment. So I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security, and I propose, with my amendment, that the title of the bill be changed in such a way as to read – the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Users of Mandatory Pension, Disabilities and Social Insurance. This register is of paramount importance since it makes it easier for employers to report employees. However, it is interesting that the single database of the Central Register took over the data on the invoiced, or paid contributions for compulsory social security from the Tax Administration, starting in March 2014, when the tax administration system under the name began to operate – united payment and that these data were delivered to the Central Register on a weekly basis. Therefore, data have been downloaded since March 2014, and we can read on the website of the Central Register a statement from November 2018, which reads: "The Central Register's Official Port is now available for full capacity work". So it took you four years to start the portal to put it in full capacity, so the question is how long it would take you to solve the problem essentially and get the workers in Serbia out of the gray-and-black zone. I am sorry that today, when we are discussing this problem, you are not present in full composition, i.e. the absence of Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic, since he himself served as Minister for Labour and Social Affairs between 2007 and 2008. We read from the media that he's announcing his withdrawal, saying he won't be a member of some next government, whether it's about elections or reconstruction. Since he is still in office as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, without being allowed to appear before the MPs, all we in the SNS have to say is that we don't have to wait for any further elections, but that we can resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50272	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50273	For information, the portal works uninterrupted, except for ten days in October of the month, when for technical reasons it didn't work. It has been repaired in the meantime, so this portal absolutely works properly and performs its function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50274	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ljiljana Mihajlovic, MP, submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers with associates, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. I asked for an amendment to the name of the law. This is by who knows which time the SRS parliamentary group submits amendments to the name of the bill, because we do it for a valid reason. Your persistent refusal of our amendments will not prevent us from considering laws and writing amendments where we believe that the text of the law can be corrected. This is a very important law that concerns every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, you should have a little more hearing about the opposition party's objections, because all of us users of mandatory social security and in the same way suffer the consequences of the lack of this law. I believe that you, like other citizens, feel the shortcomings of this law when you meet him at work. It's your responsibility as people who exercise power even greater, but based on all this, I didn't notice that you were aware of those facts. It is not enough to rewrite the law from the EU country, to adopt it in Parliament, and to believe that the job is done. The job in this area is never done, because it's always about getting these things better. So I urge members of the government to deal with this problem more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50276	At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that I expect the Assembly to consider and suggest that it adopt it. I join all the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. What he would point out is that it is a mess in relation to the payment of pension and social and disability insurance for insurance workers working with individual employers. In fact, employers pay workers one amount, officially via the payroll, and another amount by hand. In this way, workers who work with employers, especially tycoon, are damaged by pension and social insurance payments, because the question is how old the worker is 65 years old and retires, what pension he will be, all depends on whether the employer paid the full amount or avoided it. What I would like to ask, which is, Madam President, if you'll excuse me, I would ask the Minister of Justice only in accordance with these laws that are within this agenda, what has been taken by the competent district attorney in Novi Pazar, to initiate the appropriate procedure... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50278	I cannot allow you to break Mr. Vukadinovic's little things in the agenda, but I cannot allow you to break the rules of the Rules of Procedure now. When there is a Justice Minister or if you want Tuesdays and Thursdays, you ask the question, whatever MPs want, but you can't, within this point, now ask a question from the Minister of Justice that is not related to this amendment. You're putting me in a very awkward situation. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50279	Thank you, Chairman. Although, gentlemen Ministers, although we had just heard from Minister Maloko that the 2010 Law had changed, I suggested that his name should be changed in order for a doubt that would no longer exist more strongly and more strongly with me, rather than becoming a fat basis, that the name of the Law be changed from "The Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance of the Republic of Serbia" in "The Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance of the Republic of Serbia". Eurofanatism, which by the ruling majority emerges every day, no matter what degree of blackmail and humiliation the state of Serbia suffers from those who are our friends, has forced me to in this law, as well as in the abundance of other laws, insist on adding that this is the law of the Republic of Serbia. Very often, we prescribe laws from the EU, so that not those who think differently, because I think it's high time that the government, regardless of being elected by most citizens of this country, realizes that there are also those who don't think like the majority, that the government would avoid suspicion and make these people as constructive and as people who want to work in the interests of the common state and ours and yours, is that these proposals should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50280	Thank you. Ambassador Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50281	By amendment. Here, I support this amendment by my colleague Vesovic to add this "Republic of Serbia", although I must admit and have deliberately chosen the amendment of my colleagues with whom I am working well, and to a large extent I agree, to say that despite the fact that this amendment makes sense, it is no harm to remind myself that it is the Republic of Serbia, although it is, of course, understood. And it's no problem that there's no such thing as a supplement, but to tell you the truth, I admit it, to myself or to ourselves, it's like that saying that "the village burns and the grandmother combs." So, at times when much is burning and politics and foreign political in Serbia and around Serbia, we are dealing with the title, we are dealing with the titles of a legislative proposal. We're not gonna make it to the budget, like I said. I am neither the loudest nor the most radical here, but I am relatively persistent in pointing to what is obvious, which is obvious to you here, colleagues, in the Assembly, which is obvious to people who are looking at us a little bit more carefully. I'm not going to use this time, because there's not much of it, to deny the lies that have been made at my expense, but I want to use it to say that we are discussing the first part of the agenda, based on amendments proposed by the majority MPs of the government, partly and MPs of the opposition wanting to come to terms, or that they can say something, as the colleague who first spoke here said. We thus mock not the Rules of Procedure itself, but the spirit of parliamentaryism. I think the spirit of parliamentaryism has failed, that is, that people, MPs, first of all the opposition or the authorities, are submitting amendments to laws that are not satisfied with the parts of the laws they consider to be bad. That's what we're discussing, and then they're rectified. The minister present says, let's say that the stadium should not be given 250 million, a stadium or a Merdare-Pristina highway, namely Nis-Medare-Pristina, an MP or a ruling majority or a minister present, says it should be for that and for that reason. It justifies parliamentary debate, not here to discuss whether this or a little bit worse is the formulation of some legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50282	Thank you. By amendment, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50283	Thank you. I welcome the opinion of the promoter who has proposed not to accept the amendment. I agree with that opinion. As for the discussion, those who reported to support the amendment here said they were doing it because they are making fun of parliament, would call on them not to make fun of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50284	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by Parliament Marija Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Marija Janjušević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50285	Thank you, Chairman. I was forced, like all other MPs of the opposition, to propose an amendment dealing with the title of the law. It is a little difficult for the citizens of Serbia to even see what kind of obstruction is being done here and that we are forced to accept some rules that impose the regime here to obstruct the work of the opposition. I also suggested adding to the title of the law – the Republic of Serbia. And I think that if the regime thinks about its long survival in power, it should put – the Republic of Serbia – in every name of the law, because it would at least declare that you care about this country. Otherwise, here you are, even this little respect for the state you belong to and whose regime you are destroying yourself, whose institutions you are destroying, you do not respect, even by adding to the name of the law – the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of names, I think it would be appropriate to change the name of this tall home. This is no longer the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which represents the will of the people, but is an institution to bring down state institutions, to disrespect the will of citizens, and to prevent the opposition from presenting everything that is the will of all the citizens who gave us the vote. So, this is no longer the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it seems to me that you would be happy to throw out the "Republic of Serbia" out of that name, so I'm not surprised that you don't mind that the title of the law includes "Republic of Serbia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50286	This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and Dom is this building, the honourable MPs. So it's not the same. The word is "Verica Radet," according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50287	Of course, everyone has the right to submit an amendment and explain it in a way that they want to explain it, but it's amazing that someone like a colleague who spoke to the National Assembly earlier enters the National Assembly as an MP of a coalition, that today represents someone we don't even know for ourselves who, some "SIS agency", where its chairman is a coordinator and now that she would introduce herself and that those representatives of the citizens of Luciana as someone who is a guardian of what I don't even know, she talks about what the National Assembly is, what it is to represent citizens, what it is to cast out the will of citizens. Well, if someone enters a list into the National Assembly, aside from being pushed by Scott, like them, and now here represents Vuk Jeremic, Gilas, Lutovac, whom everyone doesn't, how does such a person have the moral right to even talk about destroying the reputation of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50288	The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Natasa Sp submitted a letter to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50289	Dear Minister, the citizens of Serbia need to know what from these contributions to mandatory social security is being singled out, because many people don't understand this when they're told this way, so I'm going to part with it and talk about this mandatory contribution to the case of unemployment. In Serbia, however, many companies have since the arrival of the tycoon Dossian coalition to power in 2000, when the robbery privatisation started, have run out of work. Rasim LJajic was the minister of fighting and social affairs in one period, he appeared everywhere with that unfortunate Cvetkovic, with Mladjan Dinkic, promised everything and everything, and so in Kragujevac, in the town from which I come, promised all workers who had lost their jobs in factories, such as "Koža Partizan", "Autosaur Kragujevac", "Philip Kljajic", "The flag of cars", that he would be taken care of, regardless of all that, mutilated in that chair and in power, that he would get new jobs or at least adequate assistance for the case of unemployment. And since he lied, as he lies today that he is not the head of the drug mafia in Serbia, I ask you, Mr. Minister, did you now, as finance minister, since last year, on December 17th, an amendment to the Law on Mandatory Social Insurance was made, have insight into how many people are out of work, to tell us what the average loss of work aid is, and also to give us the information, because you and other members of the government are also boasting that we are progressing, richly, that there is a booming enterprise, how much of those who voluntarily pay, therefore, not this mandatory part, social security, because a lot of things in Serbia's health should be paid, regardless of what people have basic insurance. Well, how come we don't get paid when another mobster runs our health department, and that's Zlatibor Lonchar?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50290	On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50291	This bill could actually be a sublegal act, because it's practically some kind of technical regulation that regulates this mandatory social security register. But that mandatory social security register actually has a touch point with all the ministries, and that's why it's kind of unacceptable for me not to let any minister be mentioned through this law. We should all sit there so we can ask each and every one of us a few questions, because there is no ministry to which this law does not apply. It would be good, let's say, Mr. Ruzic, that this is how the issue of a single voter's list is regulated. I think that would give a good result for some future elections. Natasa Jovanovic started a story on investing these funds in health care. We asked, Minister Mali, Anna Brnabic and asked the entire government, and the president of the state, when we opened the affairs of these five ministers, we asked how was the procurement done for the Clinical Centre in Nis? We didn't get an answer, and we certainly know that a huge amount of equipment was obtained without a tender and that it was a serious crime. As we have no answer to the question, and it has to do with this law, this combination of Rasim Ljajic and Esada Djuja, because also the Bosniak national council will spend this money. That's why we want to get this straight and finally ask you, here, Ljajic said he can't wait for the reconstruction. Do it to him. He really doesn't belong in the government anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50292	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we just heard a question about employment status information, or unemployment in the Republic of Serbia. I informed you on Friday of the latest data provided by the Bureau of Statistics of the Republic of Serbia. So, historically on unemployment rates, we're at the lowest level in the last quarter, that is, in the third quarter of 2018. The unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia is 11.3%. In the same period, the employment rate is record high at 49.2%. In the last four years, 370,000 were opened in Serbia, i.e. 370,000 new workers were employed, which is great news for us, of course, and a great commitment to continue at the same pace to increase the number of employees and to reduce unemployment in the Republic of Serbia. For details, if you are interested in the employment rate of 15 years and over, it was 49.2%, as I said earlier, of the male population 57.3%, of women 41.7%, of the region of Šumadija and of western Serbia, as well as of the Belgrade region recorded the highest employment rates. In the Vojvodina region, this rate was 49%, while the region of southern and eastern Serbia recorded a minimum of 45.4%. On the other hand, the unemployment rate of the age of 15 and over was, as I said earlier, 11.3, 10.5 for men, 12.2 for women. Viewed at regional level, this rate had the lowest value in the Vojvodina 7.9 region, followed by the Belgrade region 10.2, the region of western Serbia and Woodland 12.5. The region of southern and eastern Serbia continues to record the worst situation in the labour market, which is also an indication of where we should focus most of the investment in the coming period. Thank you very much. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50294	He didn't misread you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. Didn't the Faith of Radeta speak? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: It is on my amendment. On your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50295	Mr. Minister, you said all that nicely, but I didn't ask you that at all. I specifically asked you what is going on from the part of mandatory social security in the case of unemployment with those people, I have listed factories for you, I can sort out all over Serbia, because there are many that these have robbed from the yellow DOS coalition whose share has been full 14 or how many years Rasim LJajic, who have received a financial fee for losing their jobs, whose fact has ceased, that is, no longer have the right to do so, and they are still without a job. So if these people are 50 or older, I'm going to give you a concrete example now... That the yellow politics in Kragujevac continued tells the fact that Kragujevac Mayor Radomir Nikolic fired a huge number of public enterprises. They received between nine and 12 months of unemployment benefits from the National Employment Service in Kragujevac on average of 16,000 dinars. After Radomir threw them out on the street, in the meantime he, Dad, Mom, made a fantastic fortune, what will happen to those people who, by law, have used this right, and now they simply don't have the basic needs of life, because the Mandatory Social Insurance Act does not apply, ladies and gentlemen, only to that person who pays it, but also to the members of their families? What's one child's underage fault that a father or a mother is out of a job because of the kind of policy she's run.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50296	Thank you. The word has a minister, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50297	Dear Members, in order to avoid any doubt, what is important is to distinguish between the National Employment Service, Obligations, Rights and Responsibility and the Service and the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance. So what you were talking about is about the National Employment Service and the support that is related to those who have lost their jobs or who are currently jobless. The central register of mandatory social security is not about that. Therefore, it is either an institution or a register relating to the registration of contributions to compulsory social security that the register informs either the employer or the employee. We can talk about what the National Employment Service is doing, and I think it's already known about various specialization programs and everything else how successful the National Employment Service is in its work. Finally, this reduction of unemployment speaks in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50298	The word is Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50299	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I am so glad that the minister mentioned that Serbia, according to the Statistics Institute, has reached a record level of employment and that unemployment has been the lowest in the last 10, 20 years. I am even more pleased with the fact that he is a minister, it would be good if he could hear what I'm saying, I'm very glad that the minister mentioned and that he came to know and that it's simply the fact that the unemployment situation is the worst in southeastern Serbia, in terms of underdevelopment and infrastructure, and that he and his team, and hopefully the whole government, clearly where investments are to be directed in the coming years. I am therefore surprised that the proposed budget provides for the construction of a gondola in Belgrade to allocate an entire 862m dinar or slightly more than sevenm euros. So, this undeveloped Serbia, the poor south, where the average unemployment ranged from 20 per cent and even 50% in some municipalities, such as the Shop, Bosilegrad, Vladic's Han and others, where the average salary is up to 70% lower than the average salary in Belgrade, they will finance the Republic of Serbia's budget with their taxes, their non-small, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia has predicted no less than 7.5m euros to build a gondola in Belgrade. How, Mr. Minister, did you not remember to focus that surplus money in the budget on some of the investments that are in southern Serbia? How come it didn't occur to you, for example, to predict some of the money to build a modern Nish-to-Kladov traffic station? You know that this East of Serbia has relaxed, that every year mass people, primarily young, move out of those parts, and that the state of infrastructure in those parts is disastrous. How did it not occur to you that the 860 million, let's say, shift to some other gondola or some more ski trails on the Old Mountain, so that we can relive that area and that people living right near the Old Mountain have the opportunity to work there, stay there to live, not move out? What, for example, didn't it occur to you to focus some of the funds on building, if we were to build gondolas, to finally build a gondola from the rapids to the kopalniks? For years, it's been said that the Speedy is a appendix and that the modern ski center on the Bath is to be completed. Of course, no one allows that gondola to be built, because there is no money, but of course there is money to build a gondola in Belgrade. How come it didn't occur to you, say, to single out those promised funds through Minister Mihajlovic to modernise the airport? All year or the first half of the year you spent on pressure from the authorities to kidnap the town of Nisu airport in which he invested in the last 30 years of his assets, from the city budget, trained him after NATO bombing, invested huge money to keep this company alive, to finally start operating, then pressed to kidnap the city's company and to transfer to the property of the Republic with an explanation that you would invest funds to modernise the runway, to modernise the airport, the control tower, etc. You didn't predict a single dinar in the budget this year for modernising the airport, even though you promised, that's also the obligation of the state when you took over the airport. In the meantime, what you did, you just shut down two lines that have worked perfectly so far. Where are the funds, ministers, in the budget planned for the completion of the 12-year dormitory and came, imagine, to the fourth floor? We've been building four floors for 12 years, and thousands and thousands of students have not been provided with housing in dorms. Where are the funds provided for one of the most prestigious music festivals in this part of Europe, as regards jazz music, the Nisville Jazz Festival? Not a single dinar. Every year, the state...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50300	Thank you. You're way out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50301	... It's funded by the Exit Festival, but there's no money for the Niski Jazz Festival. That's the real question, and that's the real debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50302	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50303	Thanks again. Dear MPs, every part of the Republic of Serbia is very important to us, and what the government has done in the past four years is to insist and work on the even development of our country, any part of it, any city, any village. That's why you never again have investments in local infrastructure, in local roads, in new highways, new bridges, new tunnels, in new factories that open across our country. What is particularly important for Serbia's east is the announced investment of a Chinese strategic partner company in RTB Bor 1.5 billion dollars over the next six years. It is an investment that will completely change the east of Serbia, which will fully raise that part of our country along with investments in infrastructure. When I talk about these investments, I'm talking about what happened. The Danube corridor that the government of the Republic of Serbia will make, 30 billion of which we have talked about only for the development of local roads, most of it goes to the east of Serbia to support investments in RTB Bor and other investments in the east of Serbia in the right way. We expect a major change in that part of Serbia. We expect Serbia to be the leader and locomotive of our country's development again. That is why we look forward to this investment in RTB Bor and, of course, investment in infrastructure and monitoring it, so that we can raise that part of our country in the right way. On investments, various, to say the projects we've heard about, all the music festivals are the subject of funding local self-government, not the states of the Republic of Serbia, and that is what local self-governments define as their priorities according to the tourism development strategy they have. The government of the Republic of Serbia has never dealt with this, except one that has been defined as a project of national importance to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50304	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50305	Thank you. Complementary discussion by amendment. As far as these notes are concerned, that the funds are not sufficiently defined for the south, that is to say that the part of our country is not engaged, it probably does not know, although it would seem very strange to me that it really does not know, without pretending, the one who asked that question, of course, is investing in every part of our country. In addition to everything the minister has mentioned so far. In the town of Nis, let them count how many new factories Alexander Vucic himself opened, how much investors were brought in only during the period when SNS-backed governments are working in Serbia, not to be surprised if it turns out that investments are only that way, in that part of our country over 150m euros, that 10,000 new jobs are secured in this way. So many of our families found bread on the table. Not to be surprised if it turns out that we did the same thing in Lebanon, and in Vladica's Han, where these Gilas coordinators come after, and they say, we're going to close this whole thing down, we're going to figure this out when we get to power in Serbia, which, of course, won't happen. It's the same thing about roads. The budget that we are discussing at this session provides for infrastructure that includes these roads, so whoever cares about these roads, let them vote for this budget, not that like Jeremic and these Gilas co-ordinators tomorrow when we talk about new highways that need to go through the south, they say – no, we will not do that, because it is against Serbia's national interests. It's all but against Serbia's national interests. In this budget you will find also for the road infrastructure for the southeast, and for the road infrastructure for the southwest and Serbia today can do all these things in a successful way, precisely because, since you have mentioned some, as it is now for the people's good, for the public register, for those jobs and for that infrastructure, not for the personal bag and personal pocket and for Gilas, who shaved 300m euros while staying in public office, nor for Jeremic who has received millions from world hohstapplers and con men, nor from all others who know everything today, except that the budget seems to read and to rejoice in the success of his country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50306	A replica of who? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50307	Mr. Orlic, I didn't mention Gilas or Jeremiah, and I don't understand the context you were talking about. Maybe you understand, I don't understand him. I tried to find in the budget what you were talking about, money meant for the infrastructure of southeastern Serbia, so I couldn't find it, so I intervened with the amendment and predicted a part of the funds to build a normal traffic station from Nis to Kladov. I also found no means to finish a student home, but also for many other projects. Well, it's an honor that this government has opened several factories in both Nis and surrounding places in the past four or five years, and that's good, with the average salary not even increased by iota for all this time. The number of unemployed has decreased, but the average wage in Nis remains one 40-50% lower than in Belgrade, and in other smaller places, we do not speak. I'm not saying it wasn't done, but certainly not enough. A key question that no one gives an answer, especially the one who needs to, which is the finance minister -- why Serbia, why should Serbia's budget build a Belgrade gondola? Is this a project of national importance? On what basis should the citizens of Kursumlia, Lebana, Pirota, Loznica or any other city in Serbia finance the construction of a gondola in Belgrade? Well, it's a Belgrade project. You boast that Belgrade has the best or biggest budget in years, so why don't you build that gondola yourself? On what basis is this a more priority project than a gondola than Brzic towards Kopalnik or a gondola on Zlatibor or a ski lift on the Old Mountain? I really don't understand. I understand everything, to be watching the center, to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50308	Thank you. Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50309	Dear MPs, I will try to answer the question you have heard. So, our strategy, the government of Serbia's strategy, if you're looking at the period in the last four years, given that in 2012, we had an unemployment rate of over 25%, it was aimed at reducing the unemployment rate, opening up as many new jobs as possible, and parallel to how we end the fiscal consolidation process, we work to raise the average wages and the level of average salaries in the Republic of Serbia. As far as I'm concerned, I'd agree with you, the salaries are still low, but the trend is good and we're going to raise the salary. In front of me, I've had an average salary increase over the past few years. We are on the average of 420.7 euros for the first nine months of this year, last year it was 394, 2016 in 374 and in the years behind it, of course. Therefore, wages are slowly rising in Serbia. We are not satisfied, but our first goal, our priority goal was to create as many new jobs as possible to raise the employment rate and reduce the unemployment rate. With new investments, we are going towards growing and paying in Serbia. It encourages the investment in Zrenjanin, which President Vukic opened on Friday, with net salaries of 90,000 dinars, net wages for newly employed 160 people. It is our priority in the coming period that, apart from further cuts in unemployment, we go to see wages increase. In the 2019 budget, you also have an increase in public sector wages and an increase in salaries, i.e. pensions. as well. You also have an increase in the minimum labour price.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50310	Thank you. Time. Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50311	Thank you. Since they wondered directly – how in the story of Jeremic and Gilas, I mentioned them. You may not be yourself, but it certainly concerns a lot of you, because I could mention the DSS as well, so it's perfectly clear that at the time when this party, which I don't know who belongs here now or doesn't belong, it's hard to catch more who's resigning to whom, where and why, and that party was directly responsible for all the trouble that happened to Serbia, because at the time of that party, to remind me, most of those 24 catastrophic privatisations happened, right, so I mentioned to those with whom these today are concerned about everything and everything, went to the polls, because you shared the list with the coordinator Dragan Gilas, so says to the coordinator of all his MPs in the Assembly? I'd say something if it were. If we were able to share places on the list and share values once, then we should share responsibility. A few companies open up in this country? Well, it'll be a little more than a few. That maybe it's not close to a hundred if you look at the whole country. A few new jobs? I said a little while ago, just at the level of a town there's 10 grand, where we're worried like a lot that there's nothing there, it looks like there's 10 grand. In all, there are more than 100,000 of these new jobs in Serbia that we have provided, among other things, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is disastrous and it is not even correct to try to seduce citizens of Serbia from the regular city with citizens belonging to another city. Is this our joint house? I guess so. Is the budget a common register? I guess so. Who's going to find a smart one now and say why are these New Sad guys funding support for a factory that's supposed to be in Nis or going to Lebanese? Who's gonna be smart enough to say what those New Marketers are helping Zrenjanin, where you've heard that there's now a valuable investment for 160 new jobs, 90,000 dinars to be a net salary. Is that correct? Is that right, is that okay? To deal with gondola, we can, but we're doing it to those who were able to hear it was a project...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50312	Thank you, MP. According to the amendment, Mikhailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50313	I'll be short on gondola. Gondola is not being built in Belgrade, Gondola is being built in Serbia's capital. That's what anyone who's been discussing gondola needs to know. Those who come to Serbia first come to the capital. Mostly Serbia's prices towards the capital. Gross tourists coming to Serbia are coming to the capital. Whether he's called Belgrade, Leskovac etc., that's another thing. To ask such a question is inadequacy towards Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50314	The word is Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50315	First of all, since the gondola is a topic, which is directly related to the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, the previous speaker to inform that Belgrade is the capital of Serbia, but is not at the border. So that Serbia can be entered and Belgrade is not the first stop. Until recently, there was an airport in Nis. In fact, it exists, but formally you can still land in Nis or you can enter Serbia and Subotica. It's still part of Serbia. Presevo is also part of Serbia, so you can enter from that side. You can enter Novi Pazar or Raska on some third side, in Piroth or Dimitrovgrad on some fifth side, in Vršac. So the argument that Belgrade is the first place for foreigners to come so the gondola should be made is an argument at a level like -- now some of them are called, the president of Serbia has won a 70-year-old award and is called the "Golden Lion" for peace, although there is only a year and is approximately at the coffee level to be delivered by pumps. You come there and ask if you have coffee to bring and do you have the Golden Lion award for peace...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50316	Ambassador, what does this have to do with this law... (Zoran Zivkovic: To make every MP... Why are you yelling at me? (Zoran Zivkovic: Because you have a microphone and I don't. I don't understand. (Zoran Zivkovic: Give me a word to explain. I can't give a word. You weren't in the previous session when I took everyone's word out who didn't want to talk about the amendment at point 1. (Zoran Zivkovic: I'm talking about the amendment. You don't talk about the amendment at all, you don't even know what it's called. (Zoran Zivkovic: You can ask someone else's name. All right, but I'm sure I won't let you talk here and insult people. I've been fighting this whole afternoon, you haven't been there, and you don't know how I've reacted in more situations. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50317	Right to the replica, if you agree, Madam President, mentioning the president. (Zoran Zivkovic: Who mentioned the president? I was talking about coffee. So, as for those who shout, I understand that there are a few things about the Peace Prize that bother some people. A few things, for example. that in our official explanation for the award, we heard that the result of the extraordinary personal and institutional contacts that were established with the world's leading politicians during the time that Aleksandar Vukic is headed by Serbia. I understand that it bothers some who haven't been successful in that direction. The second thing has also been explained that Serbia has acquired the status of an important place for peace and stability throughout the region. I understand that it also bothers those who have not been successful in that direction. Third, it was also heard in the explanation that the award went to the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic, and because Serbia was able to achieve the economic results considered excellent, practically miraculous when you look at serious institutions during the implementation and implementation. I am also talking about these results in the economy at this session, and we are also talking about these investments and the good result for the budget and new jobs. We absolutely understand that all this bothers those who have never been close to such a result. Why? Because they dealt primarily with themselves, their own personal happiness and their own personal budget. (Zravko Stankovic: What amendment is he talking about? ) Today when Serbia acts differently, it finds both space and resources and strength and will and knowledge to open those jobs across the country, which we have talked about for a little while, but also to realise all those projects like this gondola, mentioned today, also announced by Gilas, and Jeremic and many others, but what is the point? They were never able to start a project. They talked about him, advertised him publicly, but never as much as anything else, for that fountain, or for "Belgrade on the Water" were able to move with a small finger. Today it's a reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50318	Thank you. I'm sorry, I didn't remember your name, I see you for the first time. What were you throwing at? (Zravko Stankovic: What amendment was he talking about? It was a replica. I'm sorry, I didn't remember your name. Bosko Obradović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50319	Madam Chairman, in a rough way you have violated a 107 member who says that this Assembly has certain dignity, and this Assembly loses its dignity if you are the chairman of the ruling majority, if you are threatening the word of the opposition representative here, if you are shutting down our microphones in the middle of a speech, before you have even carried out any warning or warned that we are violating something, that you are practically maximumly trying to get here... Alexander Vukic is the only one who can be protected in this House of the National Assembly and can be talked about here by fairy tales and praises, but when Alexander Vukic is criticised or when he wants to say anything from the opposition angle, it is forbidden and it is illegal. That's the first thing why you here violate the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You must return the word to the opposition committee, you must give it the right to a replica, you must enable the voice of the opposition to be heard in the home of the National Assembly of the RS. That's the first thing. The second thing, you have to disable this farce from the phantom and false amendments proposed by the SNS, 385 amendments... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50320	No offense, please. I am trying to fully protect Parliament's dignity and I am not letting anyone insult any MPs. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. ) Slowly, he did not finish Bosko Obradovic. What you've prepared we have time for, we'll listen to 30 violations of the Rules of Procedure. I've been here a long time, so I know how this part of the session is going to run. You are only in full composition to complete your share of Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50321	Thank you, Chairman. You've demonstrated again that you interrupted me in the middle of a sentence. I don't know where you got that right. How can you stop the opposition MP and the head of an opposition group in the middle of a sentence? Explain to me how, without warning, you didn't say that I was saying something that wasn't appropriate, or are you going to restrict my right to speak and that you're speaking for me? So give us back the right to speak. Remove amendments that do not make any sense, because you withdraw them after the debate. They only serve to steal the opposition's time. We can't talk today about the budget as the most important law in one country, one calendar year because you set up a fake theme, a fake first law, 385 of your false amendments, and you make it impossible for us to talk. Do you understand what the problem is? It's a violation of dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50322	Thank you. I'll answer you anyway. I'm sorry that you weren't in the previous session to see that I gave your honourable MP to speak to Miladin Chevarlic's MP card, too, so she couldn't speak, because her card wasn't correct. So much for not giving someone and letting someone talk. What according to article 27 must be done by the president, including by the chairman, is to lead parliament and parliament sessions. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. On me? (Zoran Zivkovic: No, Orlica, he personally called me. Take it easy. What I'm trying to do, but it doesn't always work out for me to stop today's debate from being a full insult to one or the other MPs. And I think all MPs have the right to propose amendments. At one point, I think it's 42, we have over 500 amendments that, as you say, are phantom, and I don't think they're phantom, but that every MP has the right to write amendments that don't correspond to the essence of the Rules of Procedure and amendments as it says in the Rules of Procedure, which is that essentially changes the member to which it refers. Well, nothing. They are earlier, and I would like to draw your attention, because I may not be in parliament, and perhaps you will remain in Parliament one day, to draw your attention, because earlier amendments are still on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, being unconstitutional, illegal and not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at the time of Gordana Comic's chairmanship. They were amendments to the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. (Radoslav Milojic): It has been eight years. What do you think we should do again? (Radoslav Milojic: Let's look into the future. You've been in power for eight years. ) Yes, the same Rules of Procedure, the very Rules of Procedure was written by Nenad Konstantinović, who sits here, Mrs Gordana Komic... (Radoslav Milojic: You have been in power for eight years. ) It doesn't matter, someone can be in power for 50 years, and Gordana Komic, and they decided that such amendments are being written on – deleted, the SRS at the time of the parliamentary group, none can be considered. We feel that such amendments should also be considered. You're wrong, I know you're gonna do it all day long, I don't mind, it's your right, and because we're going to vote on Article 27's injury. Of course we'll vote, thank you. Zoran Zivkovic, a replica to whom exactly? (Zoran Zivkovic: Eagle.) I'm an eagle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50323	Thank you very much. Since the replica was personal, which was directed to me personally, then I will be personal. So it is forgotten that at the time I performed some important state functions there was no success as there are now. Well, let me tell you some comparisons, for example. At the time of the state that was still Serbia then, the SRJ returned to a normal world. We have been admitted, returned to the UN, the Council of Europe, Interpol and many other international organisations. We have returned the custom of paying off the pensions and paying back all pension debts that were due at the time of your previous authority denied. We've paid off all the child benefits, the bank debts, even the Dafina and the Horses. The euro was, when I left the prime minister's office, 68 dinars. So, almost twice the money was stronger back then than it was today. In 2003, 12,000 criminals were detained from the country, a few thousand of them, four or five thousand were detained, five thousand criminal charges were filed and virtually reset crime in the country at zero. In addition, 800km of roads across Serbia have been rehabilitated in those three years, which is an unattainable result even for the biggest lies we hear today about that part of the government's work. We've done many other things that are incomparable now. We've cut the foreign debt from 15 billion to nine billion. The privatisations that were then made, in the first three years, were angelic pure and fair... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50324	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: It is, please, a witness to this is Mali, the minister sitting in front of you. Don't yell at the MPs. You've heard enough. No yelling, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50325	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 108. - the President of the National Assembly, more specifically you. How do you think we're discussing the most important law in a year, that's the Budget Law, if you take away two opposition MPs, for the first time in today's day, word? Stop them as soon as they say what is true, which all citizens know, that the SNS has reversed Serbia, that you have owed us 10 billion euros in just seven years. I said a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. I ask you not to take away our fundamental right in this House to debate, to express our political views. We are not yours from the coalition, who will be silent and read the words you give them. We have our own opinions, we have our own attitude, we have our own spine, and we will not let you oppress us. Not because of us, not because of our parties, but because of the citizens of Serbia that you have oppressed from 1990 to 2000, and now you have been oppressing them for seven years. And you should be ashamed of everything together.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50326	Ambassador, you have just abused the Rules of Procedure by allowing yourself to discuss something that is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you, if you have not yet read the Rules of Procedure, your MP group DS, won 19 minutes in the elections, as a parliamentary group and 15 minutes plus an authorised representative. And no one... Radoslav Milojic: Well? I don't understand what it means – well? (Radoslav Milojic): What does that have to do with what I said? It matters, for you want to lead the public astray, to have someone threaten you with something. You have 34 minutes, plus your amendment for two minutes, and that's on the first draft of the law three amendments, so six minutes, bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia 37 amendments per two minutes, plus this time I read to you. So I don't see what the problem is. To those laws you have no amendments to, you will preserve your time and discuss the draft budget law. I don't see what the problem is, only if you don't want to do it, that's different. If you want to do this, then you'll save your time and discuss... (National MP Radoslav Milojic throws) Well, I don't know, others want to use their time now. I don't know what the problem is. I don't see that problem at all. I don't know what the problem is. Do you want to, you want to vote? Oh, no? Okay, thanks, no. Who wants to talk about the amendment? Another breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50327	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my fellow farmer probably doesn't remember everything for some alchemy reason. Article 103 concerning Article 107 So, at the time Serbia entered international organisations, he was not the Prime Minister. Thanks to the enormous energy of the citizens, we did it together with them. He's the one who spent that citizen's energy. He talks about a debt reduction, he won't say that thanks to the enormous energy of citizens, the debt is forgiven by the London and Paris clubs. He's talking about course, only during his reign has 8% course gone. Sixty dinars were the euro before the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, 68 dinars after him. He's talking about arrested and filed criminal charges and telling the truth. It wasn't 5,000 criminal charges that were filed, it was just over three thousand. Twelve thousand people were arrested, ten thousand times a foot was broken into the wrong door, a frightened family, etc. Sabela was not as sacred as he spoke of, nor were his privatisations fair as he claims. National MP Zoran Zivkovic throws it away. The citizen is working... Don't throw away a fellow farmer, I understand you well. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, some of them come here sleepy, some of them directly from the bar, and the microphones get caught immediately, and I ask you to keep an eye on the future and try according to the attitude of 8 of some MP groups to take time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm not asking you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50328	Thank you. I will try, I must honestly tell you, that I do not use Article 8(3)'s position because some MPs want me to use it, and then say that I am taking away the word or punishing it, but no, let it speak as it pleases today and as much as it wants, I have no problem with it. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure before you do. The first one is the Belief of Radeta, and the first is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, so do you, Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50329	Article 107(1) We SRS MPs have tabled 610 amendments for this session. It's been hard, it's been a while, we've literally been working day and night, and we're not going to let someone who's been traveling through this hall all day manages the debate by humiliating the MPs who do their job, insult the MPs because they've submitted the amendments. The amendments are submitted for the government to accept or reject them, so that the ruling coalition will vote for them or vote against them. It's just a matter of those who have a congregation majority. But I repeat, those who are here today to advertise for elections in Luciani cannot, at least as far as we're concerned, disturb the session in this way. We do not want to enter into a relationship between the ruling party, the SNS and their coalition and this "SIS" agency led here by Bosko Obradovic, so he forced them all into this hall after how long. We do not want to participate in these conflicts, but we want to protect our dignity, the dignity of our parliamentary group and dignity, of course, of the National Assembly. I remind these gentlemen of the journey not only to address the citizens of Luciana, the elections are both in Doljevac, and in Kladovo, and in The Tower, but they weren't even able to collect signatures, let alone appear there in front of the people and then try to make a circus out of the National Assembly here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50330	Time. Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the injury? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50331	Mrs. Gojkovic, thank you for letting me point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, I tried to apply in the system after Boško Obradovic's exposure, but the technical service removed those shortcomings and I now have to react. You see, the RTS camera didn't record the entire atmosphere, so I have to give it to the citizens. (Zoran Zivkovic: Come on, please explain to us.) ♪ All of a sudden they're... ♪ . Now, you, Zivkovic, shut up, you're out of the barrel until you come and wait for yourself...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50332	MPs, please, but please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50333	Well, how can he tell Mr. Risticevic that he's out of the barn?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50334	Please let me warn the Messengers if they earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50335	Well, you know what, he told one of the farmers he came out of the barn, Marijana Rističević, which is commendable that a man has a place to go and to go and to have his own estate and to grow everything he has on the property. And, you know, he can't throw it at me while I'm talking, you haven't heard him. In the end, he can't do that to me at all. We destroyed that coalition...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50336	MPs, please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50337	Well, I'm going on. So, Mrs. Gojkovic, and then it was created, you can't see it from the chair's seat, one atmosphere that's like scary, so they're agreeing, so Bosko gives them some instructions. I would recommend, because of the dignity and the citizens of Serbia, and above all because of the atmosphere that should be under way, that we discuss the amendments that we have worked very, very thoroughly on, that we recommend that Obradovic be directed directly from the Assembly to Guč, or to Luciane. Since he is the ideological follower of Dimitri Ljotic, or Hitler's fascists, to go to Guca and to the citizens of the village, where the Latvians, the Germans committed crimes and shot 186 locals of these villages explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50338	MPs, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50339	... Why is he their follower and specifically to go to all these villages, to Gornja and Donji Dubac, to Luke, Osonica, Lisa and to Negrishore and to explain to the citizens how that he persuaded all of these here together from his clicks... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50340	MPs, really... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic:... to run in places where his men committed such crimes. ) Should we stop working until the election is over? Aleksic and Vladimir Orlic, more, injured the Rules of Procedure and then applied the Rules of Procedure in full capacity. Just so it doesn't turn out that I'm limiting someone to say whatever they want today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50341	Honorable President, Rule 103, and I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure in all three previous addressments, before I have, therefore, the most cruel abuse of the Rules of Procedure's injury turns into a debate, a shaming, demeaning of the people sitting here in this room. So, if you want to introduce order to this session, start first from you, which means you respect the Rules of Procedure, respect and do not allow any violation of the Rules of Procedure by the ruling MPs to turn into a replica, the most brutal with the escort of insults. That means I should be talking about what I don't like right now. You just took away the word and interrupted half the speech of several opposition MPs just because they said that the ruling coalition is undergoing phantom amendments in the assembly. And what are they but phantom if they withdraw from the vote? All right, everyone has the right to submit an amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50342	Ambassador, I have to react. Show me when the amendments are withdrawn from the vote. For hours, hours, MPs, eight to ten hours, we have a vote here at every session of parliament. That's just not true, and don't say that. It's a lie, and it's very harsh and trendy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50343	Well, last year, the Honorable President of the Assembly... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50344	What about last year? Well, we're not talking about 2017. Thank you, Alexic, that the citizens of Serbia know exactly what you're talking about. So, in 2018, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50345	... because the MPs are submitting amendments to make time for debate. That's what every session since last year was, like, a year. And now you're bothered that opposition MPs came to the O.R. to talk. You'd like to talk to radicals about amendments, and someone else would.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50346	Well, MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50347	And you have a face for the citizens of Serbia to let us talk about the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50348	Well, talk about the budget. Come on, get me as much time as this MP group has, and I'll read it to you now. And I'm only doing this because of the citizens of Serbia because you're repeating a mantra today, you're making up amendments to the vote. I want you to come to the vote once. That's not true, you said it yourself last year, and we're in December 2018. It'd be nice, MP, please. Otherwise, article 103 was used 20 times today, and that in a row, it doesn't matter, you came up with it today, and I don't mind hearing it 35 to 40 times today, it's not a problem. But you're simply telling the truth, the amendments don't retreat. Did Nenad Konstantinovic come up with when he wrote this Rules of Procedure? Well, yes, what to do, we have the creator of the Rules of Procedure, I respect him extremely, because that's all I can do, I can't do anything else, did he think that one can, and the other can't make amendments, it's going to attend a meeting of me and the ambassadors who are interested in explaining it to them. I explain it to them very explicitly and clearly, and they agree that it can't be arranged like that, to forbid someone, but to withdraw it's not true, and the second time I hear it today. That's not true. Prove it, show it in 2018, and I invite you to vote to attend. To attend the vote and see what is voted and what is not. I don't know how many times I have to vote for an injury to member 103 at the same time. Well, that's a little bit on the Rules of Procedure, but it's all right, I don't know what you're getting mad at. You're angry. So, how much time do they have? I will now read to you how much time you have to know the citizens of Serbia and how artificially you have made two parliamentary groups on your list to ensure that they know Serbia's citizens, because you did not go out on your own, but with Nenad Canka, LSV, with the LDP and you went out with Boris Tadic. I'll read it to you now. Later, when the elections were over, you created a parliamentary group and provided yourself with six minutes and 25 seconds, and Marko Djurisic for 15 minutes. It's your time no one can take away from you. (Marco Djurisic: How many MP groups have you made? What do you say? (Marco Djurisic: How much did you make from your list of parliamentary groups? I want MPs... (Marco Djurisic: Tell the truth!) Don’t yell at me, and don’t be rude to me. (Marko Djurisic: Tell the citizens how many parliamentary groups you have made!) I know it doesn't suit you. (Marco Djurisic: Tell the truth!) I will. (Marco Djurisic: How many of you have made MP groups? ) Here's what Mark Djurisic has to say on the subject. Marko Djurisic: Give me your word. Not get up, just work. Marko Djurisic: Give me your word. It's just a matter of work. You can't insult me. (Marco Djurisic: Did you say – let's hear Mark Djurisic? Give me your word. Here, I signed up. Let's hear the truth. Answer the citizens how many parliamentary groups have you made? Will you let me finish my sentence? I don't know what it's like with you guys, but my parents raised me to wait for someone to talk, so I did. (Marco Djurisic: Don't be so malice.) Shame on you for your behavior! I told you about my parents. Thank you. Is this the maximum range for today, since at 1400 hours you have all the press conferences, so we need to fill out some press conferences. It can't be without having to hold a conference, something has to happen before the conference - to yell at me, to insult me, to disrespect me and so on and not to let us discuss the draft budget law. Marko Djurisic: How did I offend you? What word did I say? You didn't give me your word, and you called me! ) Give me the Rules of Procedure and let me see if the MPs are allowed to speak before they have received the word. How I decided that as Parliament's president and chair of this session not to share warnings, and then I could, in accordance with Article 112, take a break so that MPs, who have extra hatred for the chairman and intolerance, might just calm down a little bit so that we can continue the session further. It depends on how much you need to lower your tensions. [[Zoran Zivkovic: What's the break?]] Here, five minutes. I think we're adults and we can bring down tensions in five minutes and think about what kind of picture you're broadcasting to Serbian citizens who want to hear something about the bill we have and the amendments. Five-minute break. [[After a break.]] The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1. The draft Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, which contains general provisions and which regulates the area governed by the law, this amendment we have proposed a solution that defines in a more precise and comprehensive manner both the subject of law and the relationship with mandatory social security organisations with bodies responsible for public income operations and all other related bodies and organisations. In an explanation that is obviously typical, and as regards the weather change in this amendment, you say, for the reason that the term mandatory social security is a unique term covering pension, disability, health insurance and unemployment insurance, which we have separated from this proposed amendment. In the end, I would ask you how long will Rasim Ljajic still be a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia since his reputation violates the reputation of the Serbian state?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50351	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50352	Dear citizens who are watching this, the President of Parliament has for who knows which time broken the Rules of Procedure. She violated Article 27, paragraph 2, which states that she should take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, not abuse this Rules of Procedure. So, the President of Parliament abuses the Rules of Procedure from minute to minute by speaking and addressing citizens by sharing packages with unsuitable MPs for it, insulting opposition MPs and trying to justify the abuse that the SNS is doing. For a year, the SNS has been trying to hide from the citizens what it is that is proposed by the laws, and now you're trying to hide what you've proposed with the budget, what a tax on the property of our citizens will be. You hide it by not allowing anyone from the opposition to talk about the amendments, and yet the president of parliament justifies it. He says they all have the right to submit an amendment. You speak to me personally, which you have no right to, that I have written this Rules of Procedure. Well, it says in this Rules of Procedure that you must not abuse it, it says in this Rules of Procedure that one group and a series of MPs cannot submit 380 amendments to the first law. Why? So that we could not discuss budget 385 amendments has been submitted by the SNS. Why? To talk 600 minutes only about the first law, that nothing citizens can hear about the budget, about a budget that interests every citizen. Why? So they don't know what kind of property tax is going to be, so they don't know what you're making for the citizens. Don't abuse the Rules of Procedure anymore and don't share the bags and don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50353	Thank you, MP. You certainly know best what it says in the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, that is how it is and then you know for certain that, under Rule 103, I have a duty to respond to every violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know how to keep my mouth shut. It's not in the Rules of Procedure. If my answer isn't merciful to you and it looks like pucks, we can talk about it. We can really talk about that. Whether I am right or wrong, we must go to the vote, honourable MP Nenada Konstantinovic. I apologize to you for having to say your name occasionally, but you have written this Rules of Procedure and I cannot agree with either the public or the other MPs, who may not know that fact. Constitutional law is normally, not a business member, an MP to make amendments if they want to, and you know it very well. I'm sorry, I have to answer the question, and 250 amendments have been tabled precisely by your parliamentary group at point 42, and that's a fact, so you didn't bring that fact to the citizens of Serbia, but only what you like more. If I have broken the Rules of Procedure and this provision, I will put it to a vote, certainly, honourable MP, and I do not share the packs with anyone. I'd like to keep it all quiet, but you've simply obliged me as the creator of this Rules of Procedure to respond to every violation of the Rules of Procedure, no matter what they repeat. (Nenad Constantinović: Yes. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50354	Article 27, Mrs. Gojkovic. To be clear, they are not interested in amendments or budgets or discussions in the congregation. This is about the next scenario. Aleksandar Vukic is to be declared the new Slobodan Milosevic, a new dictator against whom all funds are allowed. At a time when Enver Hoxhaj publicly propagates the pact against Serbia on the international agenda, we have an internal pact against Serbia's Dragan Gilas and all those he has gathered. (Radoslav Milojic): Where were you when they bombed? You were buying apartments. ) That's why they all came to the National Assembly today by order, by the dictatorship of Dragan Gilas and their foreign mentors, because they can't beat Alexander Vukic in the elections and then try to obstruct parliament and insult the account of Alexander Vukic and SNS, to cause chaos. I just want to tell them no one's afraid of them. They can all come, they can yell, they can wave at the business, this thing is quite clear, it's a pact against Serbia, but that's what the citizens of Serbia have already seen. We've already seen this on October 5, 2000, when you make a black devil out of one man, and then you take over the government, then you rob everything that can be robbed, then you do the privatisation, then you get rich yourself, and that Alexander Vukic stops you from stealing in 2012... (Radoslav Milojic: What theft? ) Well, you can't steal for six years, so you'd steal again, so let's "Joo again" all over again from the beginning, and again to Dragan Gilas to fill the bags, and then the state pays the racket again, and again "Telecom" pays the racket, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50355	Thank you, MP, for your time. So I have three injuries, Members Bosko Obradovic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50356	Dear citizens of Serbia who are following this direct transmission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would point to a continuing violation of Article 27, in which the position of the First President of the National Assembly is the one representing the National Assembly, calling its meetings, chairing them and doing other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. It was the president of the National Assembly that made it possible to obstruct the National Assembly by the ruling majority, by allowing us to mark it exactly a year ago today, from the first amendment submitted by the SNS, which has nothing to do with the proposed law, which directly affects eating opposition time, and we will not be able to discuss amendments to the other points of the agenda at all. That's why you put 62 legal proposals in a united debate, and that's why you actually made it impossible for the opposition to talk about key life issues -- why is the price of fuel, how did you rob pensioners, how did you destroy the Serbian village and agriculture, why is the price of raspberries so high? So we can't talk about it, because you're simply introducing your phantom amendments that use to steal our time. As for the pact, there is indeed a pact, but the pact of Alexander Vukic, Eddie Rama, Ramush Haradinaj, Hasim Thaci, Milo Djukanovic and other friends of yours headed by former Bill Clinton, Tony Blair and other war criminals. It is the only pact that works in the Balkans, the Vucic and Djukanovic brothers' criminal-political pact. That's what this whole story is all about, and don't tell us... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50357	This has nothing to do with article 27. (Bosko Obradovic: How does it not have anything to do with the Rules of Procedure?) It doesn't matter. I don't like you, this is really past, you've really outdone yourself. Otherwise, Article 27, I cannot hurt several times in a row without saying one thing, so we will not even vote on this, Your Honor, because it was Martinovic who called the same member. In the meantime, until we hear a few more violations of the Rules of Procedure, please read Article 158, which very clearly defines the debate and the duration of the debates under the amendments. Read well and we will continue to discuss it, of course, if today is a topic, and I assume that the press conference you have scheduled, is today a subject of Article 158. I guess. Otherwise, let me let you know, because you don't know exactly, and you personally have 15 minutes. To wait for you to negotiate further tactics on what you will and how, since I am obliged, Nenad Konstantinovic has obliged me to respond as a parrot under Article 103. What, I respect Konstantinovic as the creator of the Rules of Procedure, is our "little Constitution". Do I hear from you, MP, as you would say in our neighborhood? (Bosko Obradović: Yes, yes. ) So, you have 15 minutes in person that you haven't used yet, you use as much as you want during the debate, and that's how you got into parliament and so on. Fifteen minutes, no one's gonna take eight minutes and 52 seconds away from you, and everything else is in accordance with Article 158. For other objections, at Nenad Konstantinovic's. Please discuss this with him because I didn't write this. I'm trying to use Article 27 as hard as I can. The word is Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50358	President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr President, I ask you to try to hear from me. I call on Article 107(1), which speaks of dignity and I appeal to Article 109 of your obligation, President, to listen very carefully to the previous speaker who, by misusing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, spoke something that we unfortunately, not representatives of the opposition, representatives of the citizens of the Parliament, but citizens of Serbia last week, and today has been re-pronounced, declared a traitorous scum, that today the head of the parliamentary group, which now appears after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, is saying that someone has formed a pact against Serbia. (Alexander Martinovic: That's right. What exactly is your point? What is your target on opposition representatives, on representatives who advocate the voice of citizens in the National Assembly, are you putting on? Has anyone formed a pact against Serbia because it advocates that the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia hears the word of citizens and hears what you are trying to hide by submitting the amendments, which is that this budget does not mean that pension pensions are being paid back to pensioners, that this budget is not meant to correct injustice, and that the ban on employment is lifted because every decent citizen and citizen is being denied, who has obtained a degree fairly, is working in those areas that are directed to the state, while members, SNS supporters, while the head of the SNS parliamentary group is employed at the Higher Medical School. President, can you tell us exactly what your threat means - you scheduled a press conference today? You're not going to say you're not going to forbid that, are you? Do the MPs in the National Assembly have the right to address the citizens who have obliged us to speak on their behalf? Unlike you and the president of Serbia, who gets into all televisions with national frequencies, there are emergency situations and emergency conferences, we respect the Rules of Procedure. We have press conferences in the National Assembly. This is our house, we are the voice of the citizens, and this game will not stop us from speaking for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50359	Is that it? Thank you. MPs, why all the aggression towards me? I'm just running a session. No one else but you who... (Maya Vidinovic: They said we were a traitorous scum. Take it easy. What was said on the left, you weren't so sensitive. Take it easy. (Maya Vidinovic: How can we be declared a traitorous scum? Easy, don't, colleague, really. I respect you very much. I didn't expect you to yell today. You weren't such an MP until now. So don't. We've been talking all afternoon. How can you say he's talking to someone else? On occasion, the Rules of Procedure are raised and today no one is talking about the Rules of Procedure, let's be honest. Well, this has nothing to do with life, not the Rules of Procedure. Right, Konstantinovic? That's not what you predicted when you made an effort to write this Rules of Procedure, that today you've been breaking the Rules of Procedure all day. But I will endure because you want to show me and all MPs from the ruling majority not to let us speak. How can we not? Here, all afternoon just the MPs of the opposition. That's right. But I seem to have a few words here that I've been given and what I can say and what I can't say. Well, I don't know how to answer, in accordance with Article 103(4), except with both and a half, I mean yes and no. I don't know how. (Marinika Tepic: That's enough. That's enough? Thank you, Mrs. Tepic. Well, I can't say anything, but I just have to draw attention to what's being said today as a breach of the Rules of Procedure, nothing fits the spirit of harm to the Rules of Procedure. I still don't have to answer. Here, the stage is yours, saying whatever you want to do today by 2:00, and hopefully we'll start the session then. I guess we will. In a row, please. Everyone's reported after the Rules of Procedure's injury and I'm not going to skip anybody. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic: President, you just said – Maja Vidinović, yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50360	Member of the 107th Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50361	But I haven't called anyone yet. How can you make up that I said a name when I haven't yet? (Radoslav Milojicic): You just said in the microphone one MP, Maja Vidinović... Ambassador, take it easy, take it easy. Don't yell. I haven't given a word to anyone at this point. So, what's your advance? (Maya Vidinovic: He stands.) ) So, will you ban Martinovic and get up occasionally? (Maya Vidinović: He has a microphone on. ) Maybe by accident, I don't know, but as you can see, it can be seen in the video that I didn't give a word. Come on, come on, take it easy. I'll take you for an insult and pass the microphone. I hear it all, the citizens of Serbia don't hear it. Right, Alexich? I hear it, yeah. It's not you, it's a colleague in front of you, but it's not a problem. Well, I know it's not easy for him. Take it easy, hold it, one minute, two, three. (Marko Djurisic: Don't lie.) Shame on you. ) Here, Marko Djurisic told me I was lying. There, I'm lying too. What do we do now? (Radoslav Milojic): You said Obradović, Vidinović, Milojičić. What's the problem now? I haven't given anyone my word yet? What do you want now? (Radoslav Milojic: How did you not? Here, the microphone's on. ) Will you allow me the atmosphere to continue to work, or should I give up until 14 o’clock? You decide, but not the minority in parliament, but together. I'll put it to a vote, see who's got the votes. (Zoran Zivkovic: Pause. Take it easy. So Milojic, pa Martinovic, and Marko Djurisic, in turn after the announcement. We'll hear it, but to get you out of context, three members in a circle. Is there anything else I can do? For example, Article 171. That's great for you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50362	Thank you. I am advocating article 110, and I am asking for the confiscation of words and punishment for MP Martinovic, who called the entire opposition traitors and said that we are in a pact against Serbia. Dear and dear gentlemen, we love Serbia, of course, most in the world. We are not in a pact against Serbia, but we are in a pact against the theft and demeaning of Serbian citizens by the SNS. And who is in the pact against Serbia? Well, it is SNS, which is in coalition with Haradinaj and Thaci. You're in a pact against Serbia. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50363	MP, the terms of article 110 have not been obtained to take away a word. First they have to warn one, then another warning. But if you've heard me correctly, I'm not falling into a trap that you've come up with yourself, that I'm sharing some kind of warning today. (Radoslav Milojic: Can I finish? (Laughter) Absolutely, absolutely. It is in the interest of everyone, to finish your thought and to let the citizens of Serbia hear what you had to say. But, notices, exclusion and that, not today. It's not on the repertoire today, because I don't want to do what you want me to do. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50364	I don't know why you take away my word every time. I would have been pleased if you had taken away the word from Martinovic, who called all MPs of the opposition traitors. It is a disgrace to the citizens of Serbia who voted for us, it is a disgrace to ourselves and it is a disgrace to our ancestors, and many have given their lives for this Serbia, while the SNS authorities, and its officials Nikolic and Vucic have received apartments while our citizens were being bombed. Now, that's a shame. And that's why I'm advertising Article 110. But I'm not surprised at anything else from you, because the way you came into this, by stealing your mandate, I can't produce anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50365	Ambassador, you've just made it up. (Radoslav Milojic: Invented? So, did you participate in these elections? (Radoslav Milojic: You stole the mandates by radicals in 2008. So, I said, Article 110, I can't do that in which you're at the beginning to say that I've hurt, there are no conditions for that. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50366	It is, therefore, a pact against Serbia. It's the same scenario we saw in 2000. Anyone today who claims that Aleksandar Vukic is behind the murder of Oliver Ivanovic is side by side of Ramush Haradinaj, on the side of Hodzaj, on the side of Thaci and on the side of all Serbian enemies. We've been doing politics here long enough so we can figure out that two plus two is four. These ladies and gentlemen today have been sent to the National Assembly to brutally attack, not the president of the Republic, but the state of Serbia, to accuse the state of Serbia of committing the murder of Oliver Ivanovic and that the state of Serbia is to blame for all the evil that is happening in the Balkans. They're doing it according to the same scenario they were working on on October 5, 2000. In 2000, they said – Serbia is guilty of war in the former Yugoslavia. Serbia broke the former Yugoslavia. Serbs are the biggest villains and criminals in the Balkans. That's what they're saying today. Today, in the same front, against Serbia, against its citizens, against the Serbian people -- both Haradinaj and Thaci and Hoxhaj and Bosko Obradovic and Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas and everyone else. And there's nothing else, there's nothing else that connects these people, except one thing -- they're all fighting Alexander Vukic and they're all fighting Serbia. It's the only thing that connects them. So we have two pacts against Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50367	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50368	One is created on an international plan, from some former Yugoslav republics that would tighten the noose around the Serb people's neck, and the other is a pact against Serbia which is things within, created by those who lost power in 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50369	Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to extend today's work after 1800 hours. Now, due to the inability to use article 27 and to run this assembly, I'm giving a break from an hour and 10 minutes to 14.00 hours. So, at 2:00, I'm gonna try to keep the session going, 'cause this doesn't make any sense anymore. It's clear why part of the MPs came here to make a mess, but I personally don't want to be a part of it. (Zoran Zivkovic: I think resignation is the right solution. You can resign as MPs, I don't mind. It's your right. (Zoran Zivkovic: You say yourself that you don't know that you can't. Can we help you? I don't want to participate in the destruction of parliament and state, I don't want to. [[after breaks]] We're continuing our work. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Anybody want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we still haven't received answers to the questions we asked in the previous session, and unfortunately, as we can see, there are now an even smaller number of ministers, i.e. only one minister at the moment. For every government and for every Prime Minister, if he understands his business and if he does it seriously, the Budget Law is certainly the most important. However, we are all witnessing that Anna Brnabic today is at the UN Conference on Climate Change in Poland and it is clear that her contribution there will be incomparably less than her obligation was to defend the budget that she, as a head of government, has sent here today in front of MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. However, you have chosen once again to proceed with the misrepresentation of the National Assembly and the MPs, to continue to humiliate what should be the most representative body in the Republic of Serbia, and I hope that you will pay as soon as possible for that price politically, of course, in the first elections to come. However, another question is being asked here. So the question arises, always next to who will propose the law and the question arises - who will implement it? And that's a question that we've asked on several occasions today. First of all, will Rasim Ljajic sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia? There are very serious facts, very serious accusations against him, and instead of taking this seriously, you're doing everything you can to distract the topic of this most important discussion at the moment. We've already seen that the final budget account is something that absolutely doesn't have to be counted on, and if you take into account what kind of people are sitting there, then you really have to admit that we rightly question what you delivered and proposed as a budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50372	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50373	The law on contributions to compulsory social security is a law that is of a material nature and it regulates who are the bonds, who are the entities under this law. The Central Register Act means one law of technical nature, which should continue to control the payment of contributions in the best way, when it comes to the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration. I've said before that it's something that's perfectly normal, but what are you doing, Mr. Minister, to make it bigger and to reduce obligations? You're not actually doing anything, and maybe it'd be good if you stopped hiring as much as you've done so far. Of course, we don't mind. On the contrary, the point is that as many citizens of Serbia as possible are employed, but the question arises -- where they are employed, when you talk about reducing the unemployment rate. How much has been employed in Serbia and how much has gone abroad? Well, as some local self-government is now, because they've missed a period of the last two or three decades to build rural roads and now they're trying to keep a population in those areas. However, they no longer have anyone to hold there, and you are still leaving the Employment Restricted Law in force, which is about limiting youth employment and professional employment, and has not at all limited the employment of loyal members of political parties in power. Of this central registry, a much more important issue for both the Serbian citizens and us from the SRS is the government's attitude towards the national issue, because it is unacceptable that the Deputy Prime Minister continues to give full support to whoever is Djuja or Djudževic or Sulejman Ugljanin, and there is information that Sulajman Ugljanin's MP received 100 000 euros from Rasim Ljajic to represent his interests here. Yes, dear colleagues, he told me, he didn't show me the money, I didn't take part in the count, but he said almost when I asked him – why such information, he said – I got 100,000 euros for it. We should deal with these issues much more than some of whom Serbian citizens have no use for.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50374	Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the First Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50375	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. Article 1 defines the establishment and operation of the central register and the SRS believes that the text of the law requires precise definition of the subject matter itself. As I have already said in the interpretation of the previous amendment, a brand-new law is now being adopted, and was previously passed in 2010 at a time when the minister of labour and social policy was Rasim Ljajic. Article 30 of that law has been defined to oversee the implementation of this law and the rules adopted for its implementation, as well as the supervision of the work of the Central Registry by the Ministry of Social Policy. The amendments and additions made to the law, which was implemented in 2014, were defined in Article 29.b to monitor the implementation of this law and the rules adopted for its implementation, as well as the supervision of the work of the central registry by the Ministry of Finance Affairs. The conclusion that is unequivocal is that the previous and current rule in the Republic of Serbia has made huge concessions to Rasim Ljajic. At a time when he was a minister, then the government had to entrust him with overseeing the work of the central registry. His departure as Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications was supervised by the central register to the Ministry of Finance. The current government thus makes a huge concession to Rasim Ljajic, allowing him to still be government minister after known developments in the elections for national councils and ties to Sulejman Ugljanin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50376	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does he want a word? A Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by a Member of the Parliament of Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50377	During the preparation for this debate, I informed myself about the work of the portal – "Say no work on black", on which citizens can check whether they have been reported and at what amount the employer has reported them to, which is a great thing, and it is also good to have a central register of mandatory social security obligations because it makes it easier for employers to register workers. However, none of these portals solve the problem essentially, and the fact is that the position of workers in Serbia is extremely bad, though it is better than during previous regimes that carried out the robbery privatisation. Currently, as many as 350 Serbian citizens are working for a minimumer, and all these citizens will be forced to turn to a poorer pension that they will not be able to eat and buy drugs and all these people will be forced into an older age to turn to the gray or black economy to survive. The problem is not only minimalists, but also the fact that many employers do not report workers, and that many resort to the fact that workers report to minimals and give them the difference to their full pay to save. With this system of abuse of the wealthy boss and tycoons, they become even richer, and citizens are getting poorer and that's the problem you have to solve. You will first of all solve it by regulating this issue legally, so that tycoons and employers who do not report citizens, not citizens who are forced to work on black. It is also very important that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not have people who break the laws, and one of them is trade and telecommunications minister and current Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic. We have here informed the police minister of our findings, and he told the president of the SRS that there is no knowledge that Rasim Ljajic is a drug dealer and that is true, Rasim Ljajic is not...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50378	An amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50379	Okay. Since you have a drug dealer in the government, but a barefoot, we expect you to throw him out of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50380	A letter from Marjana Marash submitted to the First Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50381	I thank the chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law and the proposed amendment shall be specified and extended by a circle of persons who have an appropriate relationship with the central register of compulsory social security, by adding to other legal entities natural persons with entrepreneurship status. This supplement and precision extends the circle of persons who must be covered by transactions that fall under the central register of compulsory social security. Given the large number of entrepreneurs and farmers, as well as the fact that entrepreneurs and farmers have legal rights and obligations, it is necessary to be systematised in the proposed law in a clear, precise and recognizable manner. This was the essence of the proposed amendment that was not accepted. I'm gonna use it because today, during the entire debate, everyone's been a little off the subject, so I'm gonna use it to say that another country has withdrawn recognition so-called. The states of Kosovo, that these are the Solomon Islands and I want to commend them. The government is continuing to work, and I really don't think this is a major abuse of the president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50382	Thank you, of course. The First Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Parliament of Stefan Miladinovic. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dr Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50383	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, of course, as well as something I've already decided for these two years, every amendment we propose on this side, whether it's meaningful or not, of course, each one according to the Rules of Procedure and I've never slowed it down, is rejected. I'd like to ask you ministers, you and your associates, do you know what my amendment is about? What's the difference between a member of the law and what I suggested? That's what I'm asking you for because, uh, I don't know if anyone's ever read it. You know, I've consulted people who are in the field of what this replacement is about, by the way, a language substitute and they say I'm right. (Alexander Markovic: They're lying to you. They're lying. We've been lied to by many in this country but it's not a problem, Mr. Minister, which perhaps you haven't read. The problem is that when the laws were explained, you first explained the budget, and the budget was the fourth point of the agenda. And the problem is that we won't be able to talk about the budget, and that way we won't be able to find out if he's good or not good. It's all about the rules of procedure, and it's all about what this book says, but it's not about humanity. That's what I was saying, and you weren't when I talked to you on Friday, you went out, that the opposition can't say anything about the budget, and we all say that's the most important law to be passed. Yes, we can within that time, but we can't change what the objective of the amendment is, try to correct, fix or get an explanation of why it's not right for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50384	Thank you. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50385	Only if you let me. Thank you very much. Dear MPs, therefore, the amendment you have submitted is not accepted because it is unclear how the amendments proposed by the Alliance, which is considered to be a legal technical editing of the text, can contribute to the achievement of the objectives defined by the amendments to these laws. It is therefore a legal technical order that can be amended during the legal technical order and has nothing to do with the objectives defined by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50386	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Parliament member Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50387	Yes, thank you. So this law, which is first on the agenda and united with 62 remaining points of the agenda, deals with mandatory social security. This could also mean that the state takes care of employees and takes care of mandatory social security, and we're afraid, because we won't be able to discuss the budget as well as the National Assembly and citizens, we can only assume whether you actually want to ensure that the budget is charged. With this in mind, I also call on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the professional public and all interested in sending out announced public bond broadcasting auctions in the coming months, because in early 2018 we were able to see how much further debt the state owed and how the full budget was in fact this regime. So when you say mandatory social security, unfortunately in your case it doesn't mean taking care of employees, taking care of workers, because every day we see it and in practice, we see how the fate of all employees in foreign companies who have received subsidies, but are not controlled by the state, so these employees end up on the street. I'm afraid that this law is just one of your manifests, and we'll see it in practice soon, and just to add, to your decision, by the ruling party's decision, at this session, by each item of the agenda, we have about 20 seconds to discuss, and so on, the most important point of the budget. By your decision, it's your face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50388	By amendment, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50389	Dear citizens of Serbia, I would like to support this amendment by counterpart Marija Janjusevic, for the simple reason it is made by all standards as SNS amendments are submitted. So the idea for the SNS amendment is to eat time for the opposition to discuss key topical issues. To praise Aleksandar Vukic and to praise the government's achievements and to disable the debate, for example the price of the raspberries this year or the price of fuel this year or the robbery of pensioners for 850m euros for four years. Or how Alexander Vukic is currently secretly negotiating with KIM with Arno Danžan, a French intelligence officer and personal friend of Hashim Thaci, about how he will give Presevo and Bujanovac, just to stay in power for four more years, plus to recognise Kosovo's entire independence and allow Kosovo to join the UN. So, I want to tell you the point of your story. You are proposing amendments to disable the opposition's speech on these key topics. In the end, you withdraw your amendments and don't vote for your own amendments so they don't, because of course they're pointless, we claim they're pointless, you prove that they're pointless by pulling them back. Why are you all doing this? For a very simple reason, so as not to hear the truth about the assembly's pay phone on key issues that today are hurting Serbian citizens. How do you take moms under the new Financial Support Act with children when they go to maternity, their money? How did you kidnap the peasants and cut them from 14,000 to 4,000? How are we the only country in Europe that doesn't regress diesel fuel for farmers? How do we have the most expensive fuel in Europe? You can't talk about it here because you're giving your meaningless and phantom amendments, which should prevent the opposition from hearing the word of the truth about what kind of regime we live in. So it wouldn't be possible to hear who those who beat up and tried to kill Borko Stefanovic in Krusevec. Why do we still have their initials and we don't know their names? Who are their employers? Are they members of the SNS? Did someone from the SNS send them to deal with those you stick to the labels of traitors, thugs and thieves? So these are topics that must be heard here at the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Whoever tried to kill Borko Stefanovic, that's the topic we need to talk about. Who secretly negotiates about KIM and prepares to betray KIM, and acknowledges independence, and gives along with KIM also Presevo and Bujanovac just to stay in power for four more years? We know who it is, Alexander Vukic, the great friend of Eddie Rama, who makes great Albania, the great friend of Ramush Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci, war criminals and terrorists, great friend of Bill Clinton and Tony Blair, the great criminals. So, it's Alexander Wolf. That's what you don't allow to talk here and think that you're going to shut us up and that you're going to prevent these 385 false amendments that you've handed over, that all of this is being talked about. Well, you won't stop because there's an opposition here, because we're not afraid of you. If you thought about beating up Borko Stefanovic, so to scare you, you didn't scare us, you motivated us even more to be brave, persistent until the fall of Alexander Vukic from power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50390	The word has Alexander Martinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50391	You're not so bad, Mr. Coordinator, though, you're in a little coalition with those who robbed Serbia, which has ruined it politically and economically. You're in a coalition with those who tried to nail a nail on a coffin that was supposed to be called Kosovo and Metohija, but you're relatively young, I think you'll get better. Just avoid these November and December baths, I see it has a bad effect on your health. There's a monarch, who treats people like you with a specific method, so try to go to him, I think the monastery is called the Black River, maybe it'll help you. There's something else I want to say. Here, therefore, the open front of all possible internal and external enemies of Serbia is open at the moment when Serbia is fighting hard for its people at KIM. If you're telling me that it's by chance that MPs who haven't entered the National Assembly for nearly three years have entered the Assembly, but have entered today, to tell us how we want to betray KIM, how we draw some boundaries, how we're going to give someone Presevo and Bujanovac, I don't think it's an accident. So, it is, I will say it today if I have to say it a hundred times, it is an open pact against Serbia, as was the pact against Serbia and 2000. You, after all, remember your stories about Milosevic as a great criminal, about bringing money to Cyprus, how he robbed the economy, how he killed this one, how he killed that one. What turns out in the end? Let's remind ourselves of those times. Mira Markovic is guilty because she was an instigator in the crime scene to have her secretary get a one-room apartment in Belgrade. It is all that the Dossovite government has managed to dig up on the great crime of Slobodan Milosevic. I don't have any great sympathy for Slobodan Milosevic's politics, but I want to tell you, this is about the same matrix. This is where the people need to convince him, I know it's a hard job, it's what people who got three, four, six percent vote in the election should do. Here the people need to be convinced that nothing has changed in Serbia, that Aleksandar Vuci is in fact another Slobodan Milosevic, and that SNS is the second Socialist Party of Serbia, and that now needs democracy, justice, an economic improvement to bring us Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, his co-ordinator and all those in power from 2000 to 2012. Those who sucked every life out of Serbia and in economic and biological terms are now all in the crowd. Some are also physically present here in the hall, everyone is here, and Bosko Obradovic, and Zoran Zivkovic, and Dusan Petrovic. There was talk here about it, Mrs Gojkovic, says from a list of SNS says you have several parliamentary groups. Here you have the People's Party of Vuk Jeremic who has two parliamentary groups. There are MPs in two parliamentary groups, and she didn't participate in the elections at all, and then they tell us about what democracy should look like, what parliamentaryism should look like, and how all this is what we do, how our amendments are phantom and how we make a circus out of the assembly. You want to do the same thing you did on October 5th, you're just weak. What do I care, tell me what those foreign mentors of yours told you? What did the English say to you, what did the Americans say to you? What scenario should you apply now to bring down a man who has the support of 60% of Serbian citizens? No more Joe baggers. Where's Maki Arsenijević burning down this building with Molotov cocktails? You've got to think of something new, but you haven't gone far in your innovations, it's the same matrix, there's no freedom, there's no democracy, there's no freedom of the press. Whatever newspaper you open, it's what pops out of them. The leaders of the opposition. Turn on some TV, 24 hours of worst propaganda, not only against Alexander Vukic, against the state of Serbia. I say responsibly, N1 TV leads worse propaganda than HRT does. Everyone was hanging out against Alexander Vukic. One, in Zagreb they print a book, says – a hundred years of Serbian terror in Croatia. On the cover of this book, King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, Svetozar Pribićevic and Aleksandar Vukic. So it's the same matrix, there's the same story everywhere in Zagreb, and in Pristina, unfortunately, here, here in Belgrade. It's no good, Alexander Wolf. We need to get him out of here. Why? Well, we don't like strong Serbia, we need the disabled one, the crippled Serbia led by Boris Tadic, Zoran Zivkovic, Dusan Petrovic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas. We need this Serbia, a Serbia that has no economic power, a Serbia that does not have its own army, a Serbia that does not have its dignity. We need that kind of Serbia. We don't need Serbia with a strong economy, we don't need Serbia with a strong army, we need weak Serbia. And it's an old communicative thesis taken over by these colored communists in the new DOS. It says – the weaker Serbia, the more stable the Balkans, so Alexander Vukic needs to be brought down. That's why you teamed up, what other interest do you have, what idea? You talk all the time - we can't get to the word, we can't tell our ideas. So, what are your ideas? The ideas are, we hate Wolfie, we hate his brother, we have to kill his whole family. These are your ideas. Come on, tell me one of your political ideas, one economic idea. Except it's an economic idea -- let's come to Vladic's Han and close down the factory that Vukic opened the day before. It's your policy. You say - we are for Kosovo and Metohija, and then you come to the Assembly and you say - the one, Alexander Vukic, is a traitor because he wants to build the Nis-Medare-Pristina highway. Well, whose are the Merdares? Well, whose is Pristina? They're not Serbian to you. And then you say - Alexander Vukitch wants to betray something. Well, there's nothing in this country that you haven't already betrayed, there's no such thing. The only thing you can do is serve Serbian enemies. You're saying what they're saying. Your rhetoric is neither different from the rhetoric heard in Zagreb, which is heard in Sarajevo, which is heard in Pristina. The Serbs are guilty of all the evil that happened during the 1990s, and today it is Alexander Vukic who is reportedly unstable in the Balkans. Let's take down Alexander Vukic, and then we'll have a stable Balkans. So they found, essentially, a disintegrated Democratic Party, divided into components, which they gave a new name to -- the Alliance for Serbia. Because what else is Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic and Zoran Zivkovic, that we are not much of a liar and that we are not pretending to be little children, it is a disintegrated Democratic Party. Now someone is trying to make a new political power that should be an alternative to Alexander Vukic. I'm telling you, October 5th to rephrase you won't be able to do it again. Serbian citizens won't let you. Well, you won't be allowed here by the MPs of the SNS who are sitting. No one's afraid of you. I know what your ideas are -- we can't beat Wolfie in the election, so we can beat him on the street. There's no more street. You can only beat him by getting more votes than Alexander Vukic and SNS. But you've got a lot of work to do. It's not enough just to hate someone, you have to work a lot. We are proud of the policy Alexander Vukic is leading. The coordinator says today, drawing some boundaries to give Presevo and Bujanovac. Aleksandar Vukic today held difficult and painful talks with European Commissioner Johannes Han to help the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija abolish the insane and pointless fees of 100% on products from central Serbia. He wasn't talking about any maps or any drawing of boundaries. And while we are helping the Serbian people, what are you doing? You want to further destabilise Serbia. And that's your job? I ask you again, behold, I ask you openly, you who claim us to be traitors, what did the English and Americans say to you at these meetings? They're experts in destroying regimes they don't like. What's the new recipe? Tell me, what did the English tell you? They've been masters in the ballgames since March 27th and back here. They didn't do us any good. Maybe they invented some new recipe to beat a man who enjoys 60% of citizens' support. Who beat up Borko Stefanovic? Beat him up from the SNS? Well, who is it? Where was Borko Stefanovic beaten? In Krushevec? Well, no one's heard of him there. For Borko Stefanovic, with whom I studied in Novi Sad, no one has heard of him in Novi Sad, not Krusevec. The man has the support of zero in the last elections, left-wing Serbia's 0.1% vote. And, like, now someone from the SNS beat up Borko Stefanovic, the great leader of the opposition. And you say to yourself, "You." You are like Austrian Emperor Francis Joseph, when he declared the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It shows me, Francis Joseph. He says, "e, we leaders." What are you leaders of? Which party? Half of you don't exist in public opinion research. Who are you black leaders to lead? But, great, if you leaders are in your eyes, I don't mind, but don't think the citizens of Serbia are blind and don't see what's in the middle. You are trying for the interests of foreign forces to destabilise the state of Serbia, to bring down the interests of the Serbian people, and for that someone got the money, as someone got the money on October 5, 2000. It's the same scenario as October 5, 2000. Some players have changed a little, some of them are old, there are new ones, but the matrix remains the same. You just have to, gentlemen, find another Slobodan Milosevic. Aleksandar Vukic is not Slobodan Milosevic. Alexander Vukitch isn't someone who's close or around 50%. Aleksandar Vukic wins more than 60% of Serbian citizens in his own name and last name. It's a pain, it's your pain you don't know how to solve. Well, then you make up, then you lie, then you use every means possible against your own state. But with each amendment, we will expose what we think is a damage to the state of Serbia and we will not allow you to build an arena from parliament in which the worst possible attacks on Serbia and the citizens of Serbia will be carried out. We don't have time to waste anymore. Serbia needs to move forward. Whoever didn't realize that in 2012, six years ago, he had nothing to look for in politics. This is Serbia with a 4.5% GDP growth. This is Serbia, which has managed to reduce unemployment to 11% in four years. This is Serbia that has a strong army again. This is again Serbia that can convince someone in the world to withdraw recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. Who were you able to convince? You failed to convince anyone. At a time when Kosovo and Metohija declared independence, your Boris Tadic fled to Romania and you expelled, as evidence of top courage, after six months of Montenegrin and Macedonian ambassadors. So everything's already been seen. Anything any English or American mind could come up with, we've seen everything before. They have to think a little bit more, they have to motivate you a little bit more, they have to work on your education, you have to be a little less unrecognizable. You're too recognizable. All of this has already been seen. This is all very cheap. All of this was seen by Serbian citizens on 5 October 2000. But, October 5th, forget it. It's been, and it hasn't happened again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50392	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50393	Thank you, Chairman. I believe he is a injured member of 107 who speaks of dignity when addressing MPs in the National Assembly. I'm not going to comment on the fact that 15 minutes before the speaker, and he's been given the amendment, he hasn't said a single word about the amendment, he's been insulting the MPs of the opposition. I responded because at the beginning of his presentation he recommended that his colleague, Mr. Obradovic, go to treatment in the way the protégés were treated in the Black River monastery. Let me remind you, in the Black River monastery they were treated by being hit with a stick on the head, so unfortunately one of them died from the protégé. Is that allowed to address the Serbian parliament? Is this what you've been doing to the MPs of the opposition in parliament for two and a half years, drawing targets on each of us, calling us traitors, people who are working against the interests of their country, which was the essence of all the past 15 minutes, which you haven't responded to and the open threats that come here that we will also get a stick on the head, as our former colleague, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, has received? You didn't react. That is why I am advertising this breach of the Rules of Procedure and asking you to respond to the call for violence in this House. You have no right to remain silent. You have no right to expect us to remain silent. We will no longer be silent about calls for violence that have been directed to opposition representatives every day in this House for two and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50394	Ambassador, as you know, I think you were in the hall both physically and spiritually and that you heard the discussion of the MPs on the amendment of Marija Janušević, Mr Obradovic, who himself said that this was a pointless amendment and then continued to say what he said. It had nothing to do with the amendment, and you didn't ask me to react. That's where we can agree. You liked it. It was nice to talk to the president of the state, his brother, that he was like this, that they were like this. It's all nice and pleasant to your ear. Of course I have allowed the MP to talk about the amendment in the same way and say that he as an MP in accordance with the rights, constitutionally, in this country to speak freely, to say what he thinks about the functioning of certain MPs and political parties, who say to themselves that they are the opposition. I don't know who he is, who he isn't, I'm not here to judge, but he said it, his political stance. I don't know where you heard it and saw it. I really don't know. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. Although you're asking me to sanction one MP, to keep others quiet, then obviously... Yeah, and keep listening to someone insult me and throw me, and so on, as soon as I say something, and I guess I have the right to say something in my defense. That's right, MPs. That's right, MPs. Go ahead. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. I really don't know which one of my predecessors led the session differently, except when there was unanimity here, when some small opposition was afraid of the ruling majority that was huge in this parliament and where the entire parliamentary groups were being thrown out of parliament. This is not how it will be and will not be thrown out by the parliamentary groups in this assembly of parliament, I cannot guarantee you the future, because you may have a majority, and then you will throw out the MPs again, and there are witnesses here from that time. Don't keep teaching about democracy when it wasn't like that when you had the ruling majority, and look at what the session looks like. I can't fight as president to talk about the amendments. That's the only thing the Rules of Procedure recognizes, rather than doing literally whatever they want in this House. (Maya Vidinović: Replica. Say the name and last name. () Name and last name, but nothing persuasive. (The opposition's MPs resent and seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure. And then, when I don't, he says, "Richman." I will take your business remarks as a discussion of the amendments equally Bosko Obradović – Martinović. Yeah, well, I know you said yes, but I can't give you the microphone because I'm full of the system. No, you don't. So, Marko Djurisic doesn't want this time to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Marinika Tepic. But how can I tell you now that this is all full?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50395	Thank you. I'm advocating Article 108, President, under which you are required to take care of the order at the National Assembly session. In continuity, since before noon, especially in the last few minutes you have persistently made a mess of your comments at this session. Your obligation is to give an explanation when one of your colleagues or colleagues advertises the Rules of Procedure, but not in a way that you enter into teaching us. You need to make a statement about whether or not you think you broke the Rules of Procedure, not giving us lessons, not continuing to insult us, not interpreting what the MPs wanted before or didn't want to say. This is not your job, and you should not do this, because it really is the generator of the riot at this session, and it is also because in the course of the presentation of Aleksandr Martinovic you have allowed and failed to react to continue calling for a link to Borko Stefanovic, whom he, not only referred to as criticism, but rather made fun of with his professional or study past, to which he received a great round of applause from his SNS counterpart and you supported the additional lynching of Borko Stefanovic. The only thing I can agree with Martinovic on is that we regret October, but not October 5th, but October 6th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50396	Like this, this is the only way we're going to make order. I'm obliged by Article 103 of Section 5 to give an explanation, but I can't give an explanation that one will like, one won't. So, all these violations of the Rules of Procedure, which are not actually injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I count as your discussions. Tell me what you want. So no matter how much time you spend, it's less for you to discuss, so is the Rules of Procedure and so is my esteemed colleague Nenad Konstantinovic, whose genius I see more and more, wrote it. That's how we're gonna do it. Thank you, buddy, you're a really good and great lawyer, and this is an excellent, certain provision, you've come up with. Please, the Rules of Procedure will replace your discussions on the amendments. Another way, other than taking breaks, I don't know, but then MPs criticize me, he says – how I dared take a break. So, if you'd like to talk about what you want today, enters the time of the discussion of the amendments, and I ask the services to do the same. Don't yell at me because it has other consequences for the Rules of Procedure. [[The opposition's MPs resent and seek replicas.]] Please, and don't make it up any more to be here, that I'm the generator of what's happening today at the session. There's a video of RTS, and I'd like it to be broadcast again from the beginning to the end of this session, to see my behavior and the behavior of those others who say they've been compromised here in parliament. There's no replica. [[The opposition's MPs are looking for replicas.]] In accordance with Article 104(3), I use my right to use and apply my right to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? Here you go, Philip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. And this, like all the other amendments I endure, is intended to point out that it is a very serious matter that literally concerns every citizen of Serbia. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia makes Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, this law would have to be applied to all citizens of our country. Here, above all, I think of those citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, who see Serbia as their own country. These are not only citizens of Serbian nationality but there are other ethnicities such as Gorans, Roma, and some Albanians. Social security and health services are the thing where the state of Serbia can really show that it takes care of our fellow citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, this team before we know what health services are like in Kosovo and Metohija, as there is a degree in healthcare workers. Many Albanians are also aware of this and therefore have more and more cases where many of them perform their health services in Serbia. However, both this and the previous government are acting irresponsiblely on this issue, all of our citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, and the state recognises Serbia as their own country must have special treatment when it comes to compulsory social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50398	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Everybody, how do you know when you don't have a screen to report it? The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50399	The Honorable Chairman, you have just injured in one dramatic way Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly by declaring publicly in the direct transmission of the National Assembly that you will abolish the possibility for MPs to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure when you violate it and that all of our discussions within the Rules of Procedure will be recorded as our discussions in the discussion in detail and thus to further eat our time which you have otherwise made impossible for us by submitting 385 false, phantom amendments. So you have no right to further violate the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to live above the MPs of the opposition. You have no right to serve Alexander Wolf at all costs. You have no right to put the Rules of Procedure in question like this. See what Article 104, paragraph 2, tells you. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group or a political party whose MP belongs to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. Aleksandar Martinovic publicly called Bosko Obradovic and Dusan Petrovic and threatened me with physical violence and threatened to pass as Borko Stefanovic, publicly. I only ask for a replica, only two minutes to respond to those threats, only two minutes. And, first of all, you don't give me the opportunity at all to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and now let's see if you have the courage to take up the time of the Parliament's group of Dvery and to give this discussion of mine which the Rules of Procedure gives me the right, to point to your abuse of the chair. Because if you want to discuss with us, go down to the bench and discuss with us, not lecture this people, abuse that place where you're sitting right now. You have no right to threaten us. You have no right to call us traitors. You're traitors, not us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50400	Thank you. Thank you. So, Article 104. Just don't yell. Article 104 and Article 3 should be read. So, not only the letter a, in Bucharest, but also b, v, g, d, j, etc., and Article 103, paragraph 8, and I have the courage of the MP, regardless of whether you want to physically threaten me, I don’t know what that means, “let’s see if you have the courage”. Yes, I have the courage to tell you that I have used Article 103 of Position 8 and in your case, because this is a flagrant abuse of the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: So you took us two minutes? I'm brave, I'm brave, I'm brave, against one Bosko Obradovic who threatens women. Let's see how you threaten some man in the future. You don't have the guts to do that. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Another violation of the rules of procedure, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50401	Thank you very much. One of the previous speakers, in a negative context, insulted me and called me a traitor, a man who destroyed the state, by article 27, I report to someone who destroyed Serbia, the economy, the status, who knows everything. You didn't give me the right to a replica, even though I mentioned the name and last name. He even made one mistake, along with all the other wrong information, and that the party I run is a member of the SZS, which is not true. He asked me directly to explain to him what our traitors, what he thinks, were told by strangers who organized us to change their name, the Wolf. Here, I'll give you an answer right now. So, I personally spoke to some foreigners from Great Britain with Tony Blair, from America with Bill Clinton, from Italy with Frattini, from Austria with Guzenbauer, and I said how do we replace the Wolf? (Alexander Martinovic: You don't even know Serbian, not English and German. He says he can't, because we love him. He and his government are the best in the world. No one can kneel like him. No one knows how to sing, and he likes to sing like Dacic. No one's as fun as Vulin, especially when he speaks English in China. There is, these MPs say, so it's perfection, so it's a perfect set, then they said something that I wouldn't say again, because I'm well raised. (Igor Becic: You raised? But, well, you got the answer to the question of what the foreigners told us. Now you tell us what Haradinaj told you, what did Thaci tell you, what did Rama tell you, and what did all the other criminals you were in the coalition with, not just in Kosovo, but beyond?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50402	Article 103(8) It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50403	Honorable MPs, respected citizens, therefore, Parliament Speakers continue to violate the Rules of Procedure from minute to minute. You violated paragraph 4, and in a very simple way, Martinovic spoke about it in his presentation, which had nothing to do with the amendment and did not warn him not to talk about the amendment. He talked about how certain MPs, named Dusan Petrovic himself, said: "He robbed, a traitor, he participated in the pact against Serbia; so he called other MPs that robbers, thieves, that they had betrayed, that the president of a political party fled the country, etc. So, Martinovic can call everyone in this parliament robbers, traitors, bastards, criminals, and no one can answer that. Why? Because he's SNS and you're SNS. What's the SNS afraid of? Why are you afraid to give Zoran Zivkovic, Obradovic, Dusan Petrovic the right to replication? (Dusan Petrovic: Pa cowards.) () Why is it that when you have the obligation to give the right to a replica for two minutes? Is it possible you can't stand the answer for two minutes? Why are you doing this? You're scared. You fear what the citizens think, you fear spoken words, and every time Martinovic comes out and says: We fear nothing. So when you're not afraid, let us talk about the amendments. (Serbian Filipovic: Speak, some. ) Do not submit 385 false amendments. How can you not be ashamed? 385 amendments and you don't vote for any of those amendments. Why don't you vote for those amendments? Change the minister, Sinisha Malloy, if the laws don't work, when you've filed 380 amendments to one law. Why? Just so the citizens can't hear what anyone else thinks, they all have to believe the lies of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50404	Article 103, point 8. is applied to your listening. To tell you the truth, I can't wait to talk about the amendments, especially Ambassador Konstantinovic, I'd like to talk about 250 amendments that you signed at point 42. I won't stop you. I can't wait. Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go, just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50405	I'm advertising Article 27 and I'm speaking to Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, president of the Assembly. In fact, the President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. I would like you, Madam President, to show me where it says it in this Rules of Procedure that you have the right to take up the time that belongs to the debate of the parliamentary group, to us who report to the Rules of Procedure? We have here had a whole series of violations of the Rules of Procedure, and a member of 107th and Article 104th, and we have been named here by any names and we have been called traitors, and I would just like to tell my colleagues from the SNS that they are not MPs of the opposition chorus, with our leaders we defended a Milan Radojcic, whom, even a year ago, in his interview, the late Oliver Ivanovic, marked as a mobster and a man from whom he was threatened.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50406	It is just by Article 103, the honourable MPs, which is exactly what Article 103, Section 8, is about, and it is obvious here that there are abuses of the Rules of Procedure's infringements. The abuses of the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, one of these same members has been reported by a certain group of MPs all day long and no one here is small, regardless of the insults you often give me at a pay phone and past a pay phone. You're aware that there's been an abuse of the Rules of Procedure Institute here. I'm not a little girl, and I'm not gonna give it up, you're not gonna scare me. So, in your case, Article 103, Section 8, since I've repeated 10 times before you what this is all about, we're not small. (Dusan Petrovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You too? Before you came forward, Miroslav Aleksic. I have no heart to give to you, they'll say I have Stockholm syndrome for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50407	I asked for the word after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50408	It is a great pleasure to hear from my colleague Dusan Petrovic about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50409	Article 107(2), as Mr. Martinovic addressed me directly and it was offensive, but in fear are big eyes, Mr. Martinovic. What you're seeing on October 5th is the result of a great fear that both you and SNS and Alexander Vukic are entering. It's terrible how Mr. Martinovic spoke of the staging suffered by Borko Stefanovic a few days ago. And when he talks about the weather before October 5th, it's important not to forget the terrible things. It's important not to forget that during that time Curuvius was killed...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50410	What does that have to do with Article 103? I just want to illustrate the opposition's MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50411	I'm replicating what Martinovic told me about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50412	Article 103 advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50413	Article 107(2) You're not listening, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50414	What does this have to do with any member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50415	Yes, there is. What do you mean, it's gone? (Marko Djurisic: Article 107) Listen. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50416	Well, I've been listening all day, Giursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50417	So, of course it does. I answer to what Martinovic spoke to me directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50418	Well, you didn't get the right under Article 104. How can any MP grant himself the right to a replica? Where's that?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50419	Article 107(2) I'm the one who said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50420	You're giving yourself the right to a replica, and no one has mentioned you alive for months.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50421	I'm talking about things you let Martinovic talk about and answer to all that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50422	Well, that's been said 30 times before you and then I'm wrong, I'm a mess? Well, this is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50423	If you let Martinovic be the subject, I don't know why you abuse your position towards me as an MP?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50424	And Bosko Obradovic liked the discussion? Don't, people, let's make this out of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50425	So, what killed Slavko Curuvia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50426	I really don't allow this kind of atmosphere. (Dusan Petrovic: We will not let that happen... First, this is an insult to parliament. Shame! Second, I'll continue to lead. What you planned today to create chaos, may it be upon your soul. (Dusan Petrovic: We will not let you kill us like you... I give you a warning for this, for if anything deserved a warning, this screaming deserved a warning. By the way, here's a picture of the MPs who planned to do this today, just watched as long as they could, by 15.00 hours. Thank you. I ask the services to include this breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article... (Dusan Petrovic: By what? What did I say? Well, you threaten to kill me, but I won't give up. Thank you, MPs. (Bosko Obradović: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) (Marko Djurisic: Injuring the Rules of Procedure! ) Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? (Marco Djurisic: Adjudication of the Rules of Procedure!) ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Marco Djurisic: Give us your word! ) On Article 1 of the amendment, Commissioner Marina Ristic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Marco Djurisic: Give us your word! ) I ask the cameras to show how the MPs who flew into parliament today act with an agreed scenario for today's work. (Marco Djurisic: Give us your word if you are not afraid!) I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid of you. No matter how loud you are, no matter what you plan to do today, I am not afraid of you, because here I see the MPs who discovered the Parliament building today and it's all clear. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Marko Djurisic: I answered the word! ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) The National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Marko Djurisic: You have an application for a word. Give us your word! ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Petar Jojic: I answered the word. ) Members Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 1st amendment. (Bosko Obradović: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! Please, I understand, Ambassador Jojić, that you are here, but the MPs are screaming at the moment and I can't hear you. Do you want to use your right to talk about the amendment? (Bosko Obradović: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) Ambassador Jojic, try to communicate with me exclusively. (Petar Jojic: Yes. Here you go. (Marco Djurisic: The amendment has passed!) ) (Bosko Obradović: Hurt of the Rules of Procedure! ) Before you are Petar Jojic, if you do not want to kill us all here, listen to Ambassador Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50427	Madam Chairman, please establish order in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50428	Ambassador Obradovich, you have a warning because you're screaming here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50429	I believe this law is needed by the Republic of Serbia, but to be applied, said MP Filip Stojanovic, to be applied throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What I must say about this law, the workers of the Azotara in Pancheva that the former regime has destroyed and robbed, are not so fortunate to experience the application of this law to ensure their rights in terms of mandatory social, pension and disability insurance. In 2006 Azotara's starting to collapse. It was sold for 1300,000 euros, and one of the Amoniak 2 plants was sold for 32,000,000 euros and its book value was 45,000 000 euros. So it's someone's fault that Azotara Panchewska came into a situation that about 1,200 workers and 3,000 members of their families don't have bread, because Azotara was driven away and pushed into bankruptcy. Only Vikotria Group, by illegally selling wheat, damaged Azotaru by 15m euros. So the state needs those thieves and those robbers who led Azotar to the beggar stick and led her to bankruptcy... And who is that? It's what the former regime did, and we can't forgive it. The workers can't forget. Three thousand souls are left without bread, on the street. Who's to blame? It's the guy who traded wheat, sold factories, sold plant plants. So people have to answer, those who sold fertilizer at prices far lower than they should have. Subsidies were given to criminals, and they weren't given to peasants. (Miroslav Aleksic: Injuring the Rules of Procedure!) ) (Goran Ćirić: Hurt of the Rules of Procedure! ) (Marinika Tepic: Injuring the Rules of Procedure! ) (Dusan Petrovic: Injuring the Rules of Procedure! ) (Goran Bogdanovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50430	I ask the MP Maria Janjusevic to respect the Rules of Procedure and not to record MPs without their approval. (Marko Djurisic: Did you tell your colleagues when he was filming? I will wait for Maria Janjusevic to finish her act. This is her part today - to record parliament, though it is forbidden in our country. It's a way of disrupting Parliament's work. What can I do? A picture and an opportunity. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment further? No, I don't. (Goran Ciric: Give the word after the amendment.) ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Do any of them want to discuss it? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50431	President-in-Office, I have reported that I am speaking according to the previous amendment, as well as many other colleagues and you, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, have not given me the right to speak of the amendment I have made, as well as the other MPs of the opposition, to point out the disadvantage of the government's conduct and the ruling majority in this Assembly and the way Parliament has been working in the last year. This amendment was meant to clarify Article 1 of the proposed law, but unfortunately, the other amendments that we have submitted, including those which, I see, are particularly painful, 250 amendments to the bill that you have submitted, the law that you have passed without a public debate, the law that almost all experts dealing with nuclear energy in Serbia have all declared against your proposal. You are an accomplice to the fact that this Assembly does not discuss either the budget, or the tax laws that follow it, or the courts, prosecutors, or the law that you have proposed, because you want to hide them. You want to hide that debate, so the citizens can't hear how bad the laws of this assembly are. You're letting this debate turn into a debauchery of the opposition, labeling and drawing targets on our backs, and you think we're going to be quiet and patient here. We won't shut up, we won't take it, we'll answer it, we'll talk. It's your duty to work on the Rules of Procedure. If an MP reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he must have his word. You can't decide in advance that someone's misappropriated the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't say anything. Respect the Rules of Procedure. If you don't like it, change it. If you can't run a session, as you can see you can't do, step aside, stop harassing the MPs and the citizens who watch this transmission here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50432	When I get down to the bench, I'll answer you the important things about that law that counts 42, which is very important, you'll be interested in it, and it applies to you. Very interesting things, data, please come when it's on the agenda. And so far, I've never made a provision for Article 108, Section 8, without listening to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There wasn't a case like that. But now we're not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, if I'm not mistaken, but rather some kind of discussion about the amendment you submitted, yes, although you didn't explain it, I would very much like to personally accept it and help you get one more vote, but you didn't talk about it. Do any of the MPs want to speak according to the amendment? Goran Ciric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50433	We have seen how the atmosphere is built here in the Assembly and we have talked about when we had a principle debate on the budget, that it is necessary to open a dialogue in society, and there is obviously no reason for simple reasons, and that is the violence we see in this assembly. It is obvious that this is not the way violence is being committed only to us as MPs, violence is being committed against all those people who have given, whatever support they have given, but they have given it to us. But the worst part is that there is violence against the most important institution in the country, which is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why the violence at this point? Well, we're not ready, obviously you don't give us the space to talk about the most important legal project this year, as well as in every other one, and that's the way you've been applying here for a year. You are talking about having room to talk about our amendments and the desire to fix that law by fixing some solutions that will fix the way of life in Serbia. You don't give us room to talk about it. The fellow MP also spoke about the state of the economy before 2000 and about the state of business after 2000. It is constantly said of October 5th as the date that changed the well-being that authorities inherited in Serbia on October 5th. Here, there's the finance minister. Let's try to include him in that debate. How much was GDP in Serbia in 2000? How much was GDP at that point? About seven billion euros. Seven billion euros and public debt participation was over 200%, as it was about 15 billion euros. You are now speaking, explaining your amendment, that we had honey and milk in 2000 in all these state systems, in companies, and that after 2000, a flood occurred. What is the biggest problem, in addition to violence against this institution, over the Assembly, is certainly what is a permanent call, and that is drawing targets on all those who think differently from the current majority. What does violence do? We saw this drawing of the target a year ago on Oliver Ivanovic and we saw how it ends, with the loss of one life. An opposition politician who had a different opinion than most at the moment. What happened to Borko Stefanovic? Just because he thinks differently in a political sense, and he sat here with us in the parliamentary benches, it was meant for a metal rod, because it was an attempted murder. And then there's the relativization that encourages all those who are willing to do a similar act. That's why it's important to leave space, to open a dialogue in the Assembly, so that the minister here answers some of the questions that we have raised in the principle debate on the budget. There is also a need to discuss poverty in Serbia. Poverty in Serbia is never greater than this year. So, 10% of the people in Serbia, Mr. Minister, are currently living below the poverty line, 10% of Serbian citizens, 700,000 people in Serbia living below the poverty line. That limit is 11.700. When it comes to family, the poverty line for the family, the four-member, is 31,600, and the minimum consumer basket is 37,000. So another five and a half thousand is missing for one normal, minimal life, for the minimum needs of a four-member family. The questions we have asked you, with all thanks for economic policy, economic growth, why is the average salary in Serbia, we are now talking about this, 405 euros in September, and for four years the average salary of 500 euros has been announced? Which is why we are not talking about the structure of the economy, when we talked about planned revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget, that VAT from the country is in constant decline. The country's VAT revenues are in constant decline, as it relates to the country's decline in production and the plasma of these products in the country. They fall by 8% to 10% on an annual basis, and that income, VAT from imports is constantly rising at 10'% or higher, which means that the structure of the economy is very unfavourable. Your goal is not to talk about it. The goal is to accuse all of us opposition MPs, all opposition politicians, to accuse those who think differently in different spheres of life, culture, media, trade unions for belonging to the pact, a pact organised against Serbia, and we just want to talk about real problems in Serbia. This is your goal, and it is obvious that this is why you are building an atmosphere like this, and you are not allowing people to exercise their business rights both to replicas and to advertise the Rules of Procedure, but also to the views we would like to make in the real budgetary debate. Give up these and these amendments and show that you are ready to open that debate and cross the arguments in a decent way, which will not sow hatred in Serbia the way you've been doing all this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50434	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Aleksic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50435	Mr. President, I'm advocating a violation of Rule 27, because you are required to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. You have allowed yourself to humiliate both this Parliament and this home and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we represent here. You didn't give your colleagues any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which they have the right to indicate. Secondly, you took two minutes away from the time of the group, without a basis, calling for Article 103, paragraph 8, that you had not given any notice to anyone before. So you have no right to do that and to choke the freedom of speech here in this home. If you're afraid of the truth, come out, don't listen. But you can't shut our mouths. You cannot forbid us to speak what is in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. And you're breaking it. You're breaking Article 100. If you want to plow with the MPs, get down to the bench, and be an MP, not all the time using that microphone that you have involved in front of you all the time, and hold our lessons here, to scold us and demean us, and to let Martinovic spread violence and hatred, as if you had not enough dead heads and broken heads in Serbia, which occurred before 2000 and now, in these seven years of government. You didn't seem to be informed that you've been ruling since 2012 and that everything that's going on, and these murders on the street and the broken heads of politicians, and everything else is the result of your seven-year reign. If you can't argue about it, don't sit here, not hide behind the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, act in accordance with Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure, and do not take up time and place patches on our mouths, because we will not allow it, because of the citizens we represent here. As much as you disrespect us here, in this House, we represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia here, and you have no right to share, whether he voted for you or for opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50436	Thank you. I guess I'm representing someone, too. But I don't seem to represent the citizens of Serbia. Thank you so much for that. Unfortunately, my role is here and to respond to every violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is not. And you haven't read the 103s at all. It doesn't have any touch points with warnings. You're starting from 103. (Marko Djurisic: Article 27) I listen very well, unlike those who come up front with 10 kilos and 500 tons of hate in parliament. And I don't hate anyone, I'm trying to do my job honorably here, as much as you allow me to. And the video that goes to every home in Serbia today shows exactly what's going on here, who's violent and who's sitting here trying to do something about this session and who won't allow it. And to you, dear colleague Alexic, listen to what you've been saying, in what duration, since it's not true that it's taken two minutes linearly, but as long as the speech lasts. So, Article 103, point 8 and in your case. (Miroslav Aleksic: Based on what? You won't hesitate to shout, yell, insult, because you don't talk about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. (Miroslav Aleksic: Come on.) Do not be to me. You, beware of this, read this. By the way, the Rules of Procedure are one of hundreds of members and ask the esteemed Mr. Konstantinovic behind you what he wanted to say. And whether or not I'm going to have sex or not, this, unfortunately, isn't a controversy at all, because I'd have a lot to say in the replica. But this isn't a replica. I have to explain. I can't run downstairs to explain. Don't be like a bar. Get down there and stuff like that. It's terrible what I'm experiencing. I don't think anyone deserved it, loved it or loved it. Who's answering the Rules of Procedure and who's answering after the discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50437	Thank you. I hope you understand that the citizens of Serbia will not allow you to harass them as you have been doing for seven years, not personally you, but the system of the Serbian Progressive Party that is decorated in all of you sitting here. Citizens need to know...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50438	Can I at least ask a member to say, like, roughly?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50439	I said, "Article 108."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50440	Same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50441	It is not the same, Mr. Alexic did not advertise Article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50442	But before that, 30 injuries to the Rules of Procedure, it's all gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50443	I am advocating Article 108: “O order at the sitting shall be taken care of by the chairman or by the president of the National Assembly. ” It doesn't matter who's sitting in that seat of yours. You are all acting in harmony with the will and desire of one man, Alexander Vukic, who is harassing political opponents, who does not want a different opinion, who has been shutting down the media and who has been sneering at Serbia for nine years, if we include those two, 1998 and 1999, when he was given an apartment while bombs were dropping on us. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50444	Here, you're the first MP I really need to take away the opportunity to continue insulting the president of Serbia. Here, to kill me, shoot me when you come to power, to tarnish me, shame on you whether you say it or not, Alexic. Yeah, what you said now. (Radoslav Milojic: May I continue? What you're about to say, in the context of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, no. (Radoslav Milojic: May I continue? No, no, no, Radoslav Milojic: Why? I'm ready to be replaced right now in half an hour, but it can't be like this. (Radoslav Milojic: Martinovic calls us traitors. Here you go, MP Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50445	I just don't know how long you're gonna play the victim? It's just a question for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50446	It's not Tuesday, Thursday, but what did you want with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50447	I just wanted to tell you. What you're saying on that microphone is not consistent with what's going on in the O.R. (SNS Emissaries: Who is this? ) Can you calm these MPs of yours? I ask you to calm your MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50448	It's an MP. (SNS Emissaries: Who is this? I ask the MPs to release the MP Stankovic. I don't hear what he's saying to me. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50449	I join the other fellow Members of Parliament to introduce order to the Assembly, nothing more, and to tell what's true and what's real in the O.R., not to play the victims, and there are three times as many of you in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50450	I really don't know what context you're just saying this in. You reported that I didn't know what to say, or the amendment, or the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If that's something I should be handling, then MP Stankovic, I refuse your proposal to act as you have now treated me and Parliament. To answer, say what you want, I don't know, probably because you have no experience and you've come to the session for the first time, otherwise I can't interpret. Thank you. You said to put in order, here, I'll try. National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does he want a word? The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go. (Alexander Martinovic: Ivana answered. I ask the MPs, how can I work in this noise, as I expect you to call when I call you, and not yet experience that you are yelling at me on this side because I don't hear a joke at all. The word is Ivana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50451	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the First Article of the Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance to further define the member mentioned, and I have specifically put the accent on poverty reduction. First of all, I would point out that such a good draft of the law on the agenda is right here in order to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to compulsory social security, to reduce the costs of the administration and more efficient functioning of the general social security system. This is a good indicator and this is a good path towards which the Republic of Serbia has created an ambience where further improvements, efficiency, better service for citizens, cost reduction and transparency can be considered. It is precisely the 2019 budget, as well as the other laws on the agenda of this session that provide sound foundations for the promotion of our society, for raising living standards, for more capital investments and for new jobs. In 2019, investment in capital investments will be 220 billion dinars, which is 43 billion more compared to 2018. As for unemployment, it is certainly worth repeating and reminding now that Serbia has achieved a record, i.e. we have 11.3% unemployment, while six years ago, while the country's previous leadership, was as much as 25%. Measures have also been envisaged to relieve the economy through the promotion of growth and employment and through the suspension of the difficult measures that have been in place within the framework of the fiscal consolidation programme, but the Republic of Serbia is on a healthy path, on a safe path towards growth and development, which is absolutely responsible for the work of President Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the implementation of the SNS programme. The government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is aimed right at creating new jobs and we have 370,000 new jobs from 2014 to today, which is equal to the number the previous regime has closed. But there is no more of that irresponsible policy that has put financial stability and the future of Serbian citizens at risk. We're talking about an increase in wages today. We are talking about raising pensions today, we are talking about increasing the minimum labour price, thus ensuring a reduction of the social gap. We have clear indicators, and the fact is seen on the ground that responsible management, implementing the SNS programme, acted responsibly in every city, in every municipality and we see from the draft budget for 2019 that this dynamic will continue to be far greater funds for public investment. Serbia records excellent results year by year and the question of where we would be. If they had acted more responsibly before, we would now be thinking absolutely about modernization and improvement, not first of all, of removing the accumulated problems, but certainly, despite all this, Serbia is on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50452	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50453	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers of Finance Mr. Mali, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 concerning the proposal for a law on the central register of social security, because I think it is necessary to put an accent on undeveloped areas, in mountainous areas, and the previous Government and the current Government are giving support to undeveloped areas from which I come, which is the municipality of Svrljig, located next to the city of Nis. These are the areas in which it invests, where there are now a number of people who have been employed, and let's remember the period up to 2000 municipalities from which I come from, it was one of the most developed municipalities in Serbia, and in the time of 2000, a large number of jobs, companies that have been successful and thus these people have lost their right to work. In the past several years, a major emphasis is placed on the development of such municipalities, such environments, through the infrastructure programme, the introduction of new employment-stimulating programmes, the introduction of new programmes for the development of agriculture with an emphasis on young agricultural producers, women in the country, and this results. Dear Minister Mali, I urge you to provide your opportunities with more funding in the 2019 budget, to support small municipalities, to support our villages, to support southeastern Serbia and the normal development of the town of Nis, because the town of Nis is the engine of the development of southeastern Serbia. I am sure that the government headed by our Anna, that our president of Serbia and all of us together, will have the opportunity to provide a better future for all those people living in a village, living in southeastern Serbia, and in this way, I am sure that the development of our southeast Serbia will have a safe development and our Republic of Serbia. I call on all fellow MPs to support my amendments, because I, as an MP of the United Peasant Party, also support the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Mr Vukic, because, I am sure, this is the only way to give greater freedom to the greater development of all of us who live there. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50454	According to the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50455	So, by the way, you didn't call me, I was 27 on the amendment to Article 1, but you skipped, but it doesn't matter, it's nothing new to you. Now I'm going to take the opportunity to say what the idea of that amendment was. It's a question of lexic nature. So it's important whether there's a point behind the Roman number or not. There's a difference for both of us. It's more natural that it doesn't, at least that's how it used to be taught in high school, but it doesn't matter. My question for the minister is - how long was it, since this is the central register of social security people, how many people were really employed, people who were registered in social services, in some other services that kept those records on March 4, 2003, and how many today? So, how did this happen that unemployment from 2014 to 18 and slightly dropped by one year to below 12%, or below 13%? How was it possible that the number of employees by the record of the institution in 2015 was a million and 716 thousand people, and the following year 2016 million and 977 thousand? This means that within a year, 261,000 people were employed. This should mean that every working day of that year 1,000 people were employed. That's, of course, impossible. What's that? It's a lie, a lie, a lie. It's a change in methodology, where the number of employees, look wonders, is expressed by survey. Someone calls you and asks if you have done anything in the last six months, you say, "I have been picking cherry or raspberries for three days, but you are busy." So we have the condition that the number of employees per survey last year was two million 850,000 people, and there were in reality two million and 70 thousand people, and the number of unemployed by poll was below 400,000 people, and it's really close to 700 thousand people, and these are the successes. It's a stats match in the worst possible way. These are issues I would like the minister, who was a good economist there in 2003, when he conducted the privatisation of the "Duvanska Industry Nis", Vranje, Beopetrol and some other firms, to answer. I don't know what it's turned into in the last 15 years. If you haven't noticed, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50456	I can't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50457	Let me let you know. I see you're having a hard time with that, so let me help you out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50458	I can't interrupt you. I'm waiting to see if that's it. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50459	Dear Members of Parliament, as you know, CROSO or a single base of mandatory social security was established by the 2010 law. She's been operational since August 2013. So the 2003 data only exists in certain databases of institutions that are related to mandatory social security such as the PIO Fund, the RFZO and the National Employment Service. (Zoran Zivkovic: That's what I asked. ) You could see that in the law, since once again this base and this register were defined and established in 2010. In terms of unemployment and employment, the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia is the only one that we have. We don't have any more, nor has the Bureau changed. When you look at it, I've had data in the last few years, and I've said a couple of times here. So in 2012, the unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia was 25.5%. The last quarter of this year is 11.3%. So says the Bureau of Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, and this shows how much the situation in Serbia has changed, how much our economy has changed, how correct the policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been implementing for five years, which is to fight for every new job, for every new factory and for every child to stay here, not for their future to look for in some Americas, New Zealand, Canada, etc. What is particularly important to me, when you compare the figures from 2014 and 2018, you see that 370,000 people are open and employed. Ladies and gentlemen, 370,000 men. That is a large number still insufficient and I will say that on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50460	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50461	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50462	Nothing. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. He answered your question. (Zoran Zivkovic: By amendment. After the amendment? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50463	So Minister Mali here didn't answer any of my questions. That thing used to be, so it's changed, so now it can't. So you're saying that you as finance minister don't know how many people have been employed, but realistically, not after the survey, on March 4, 2004, or you know today how busy people are. If you know how to answer that question, if you don't know, tell me you don't know. If you can't tell, because that would reveal the secret to statistical matchmaking, then say you can't and who banned it and who are you afraid of? We're ready, this entire opposition to give you protection, if you have to say, if you dare once in the last few years to tell us the truth. This is not a question of apartments in Bulgaria, this is not a question of "Beograda na Voda" here is a question of how many people were employed on 4 March 2004, and how many people were employed on 3 December 2018? Not in percentages, but in absolute figures, not by survey, but by those who pay taxes and contributions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50464	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50465	Thank you. In late November 2018, you have 2,929,300 employees in Serbia this year. It's an exact and accurate piece of information. I'm going to give you the information for March 2003, just understand that I don't have every number in my head, that was 15 years ago, so as soon as I get the information, I'm going to give you the same number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50466	According to the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50467	So, you've heard absolute untruth. This is the number that you get by doing the survey in the way I told you, in reality, employment is barely over two million. This is an easy-to-check thing. Go to any institution that deals with it, whether it's a PIO Fund where contributions are paid, whether it's social, whether it's health and you'll see that we witnessed an epochal lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50468	Is there anyone else who'd like to pick up the amendment? Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to support you, Mrs Gojkovic, in your work. I know it's not easy for you today, but it's good for Serbian citizens today to see everything like this in a crowd that represents themselves as an alternative to Alexander Vukic. I'll just mention it or point to some of them. Otherwise, they were all more or less in a position in which the first Jewish emperor, who found the crown of the emperor in the grass, was looking for lost donkeys. They all sought lost donkeys on October 5, 2000, and found the crown of the emperor. Here is one who was one of the Palanic lawyers, later a man became one of the richest people in Serbia, the minister of justice, and then the minister of agriculture. Here's one from Nis who Alexander Tijanic once said was making burgers and meatballs. Some say he smuggled pumpkins, then burned electricity bills in barrels, then became Prime Minister. Then we have one who's very bereaved, who's very difficult under the Alexander Vukic regime who cries and cries every day, but is a special advisor to the Director General of the Post. The president of the DS parliamentary group, with a salary of 150,000 dinars. Then we have a former president of the municipality who drank a hectolitre of beer and made Smederevska Palanka one of the most in debt in Serbia. Then we have the coordinator of all of them who is ideologically convinced Ljotic. He's mad at us when we tell him he's a traitor. The Ljotics were traitors during World War II, served the Germans and today serve those who are against Serbia and those who are against the Serb people. Then we have one that sold to Vuk Jeremic, some say for 50, some say for 100,000 euros. Then we have a lady who was the province's youth secretary and a sport that gave millions from the province's budget to develop a traditional sport called "Banatske Shore". Then we have one former ambassador of the Republic of Serbia in Italy who is full of the mouth of Kosovo, Serbia and the Serbian people, but whose heart bled so much for KIM that she did not want to return to Serbia at the invitation of her own party president and at the invitation of her own Prime Minister and who said there was nothing controversial about Operation Storm that was one intervention that Croatia had the right to do. Then I see there one of the Ministers of Agriculture, a great fighter for KIM, lost the one that introduced the border between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak in 2011, which also Mrs. Gojkovic was greatly bereaved under the regime of Aleksandr Vukic, and today she receives a salary as an employee of the Tax Administration in Zubin Potok, in the municipality she lives in. So it's this colorful group that someone put together. Who put them together? Someone very powerful, someone very strong and someone who has a lot of money first. All these people I've led to have one love they can't hide, it's love of money, love of wealth. Let those who now ask Sinisha Mali how many employees were employed in 2003 – what kind of wardrobe and property did they come to power on October 5, 2000, and what kind of wardrobe and property did they leave the government with in 2012? I remember them in torn jeans, in torn shoes, in torn jackets. They now have apartments in Vrakar, now have dozens and several hundred million euros in accounts and represent the richest people, not in Serbia, but in the region. It's good for the people to see them, it's good that they're up. So, all those who stood up were masters of life and death in Serbia from 2000 to 2012, and some until 2016 in Vojvodina. They're talking about murders, to remind them, they killed Ranko Panic in 2008... (Maya Vidinović: For God's sake! ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Shame on you. ) Prior to that, Momir Gavrilovic was killed in 2001, then killed Bosko Buha, then killed Nenad Batcanin, and in 2003 they managed to kill Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. As for Borko Stefanovic, Sasa Jankovic said Borko Stefanovic was beaten in Krusevec because people did not recognize him. If they'd recognized him, no one would have raised a hand to him. That's what Sasha Jankovic said. That's what your political friend said. That's what your contemplator said, that's not what I said. I was quoting Sasha Jankovic's words. Let me remind you of the latest pearl of your big cultural and artistic scene in Serbia, Sergei Trifunovic. He says -- what these rebellions against the Legion, the Legion was a brave man, defending Serbs in Kosovo, though he sometimes knew that some Belgrade cafes would hit someone with a side and rip off a earring, but otherwise he was a positive guy. Those are the words of a man you claimed to be a culture minister until yesterday when you took over. So, it's good that they're all up, it's good that the people see them, it's good that the citizens of Serbia finally see who the people who allegedly represent as leaders of the opposition in Serbia and who are the people who allegedly can defeat Alexander Vukic. Great. You win, but you have to win the election. What is very good for Serbian citizens to know is the payment. They wouldn't stand there for nothing. They didn't do anything for nothing in their life. It's only a matter, it's probably a bit of a question, it's a little bit of a deal from Gilas, it's a little bit of a deal from the English, it's a little bit of a give-off from the Americans, it's a little bit of money from Croatia, it's a little bit of money from Montenegro, it's a little bit from Macedonia, it's come from different sides, but mostly it's been laid down, and it's all their honor to justify the last euro invested.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50470	Rules of Procedure, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50471	Article 103. President, I'm asking you to, I believe, even though you didn't hear all the threats that my colleagues are getting, too, and I'm asking you to now, no matter what they're gonna keep threatening us, to listen to me very carefully. Madam President, this is not an ordinary session, this is a session on the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget, which is the government's most important policy as the government of the Republic of Serbia sees that citizens of the Republic of Serbia should live next year. What is the Serbian Progressive Party trying to do? He's trying to silence the representatives of the citizens, not only do they not hear our voice here, but they don't hear what's behind the budget. You're trying the worst possible way to humiliate us, and that's not going to work for one single reason. Madam President, I believe that you have dramatically violated the Rules of Procedure and this will enter the history of parliamentaryism. You are the president of the National Assembly who silenced the head of the SNS parliamentary group, who said that we are enemies of Serbia, that we are foreign mercenaries, that we are organized in a pact against Serbia, that we are thieves and murderers. That is what he said, repeating the words of BIA officials, who said that parts of opposition parties, that parts of the media, that parts of NGOs are united and that they work, are the most serious and dangerous security in the Republic of Serbia. After that, we have the bloody head of one of the leaders of the opposition Borko Stefanovic, who listen carefully to important words, who listen carefully to what comes from the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Those aren't words. From whatever party you belong to, you belong to the SNS, you're here all the spokesmans of the idea and the intention of one man, who is solely the intention of not hearing the voice of the opposition and not standing in front of anyone. It won't stop, that a television station will declare here as traitor television, that an actor who dares to say something is a traitor, for every man who today in Serbia doesn't agree to keep his mouth shut about retreating in front of you. In the National Assembly, we are declaring ourselves, representatives of citizens, and much more important than us, it is not a problem because of MPs or DSs or SDS or NS, or all of these parties standing here today because of citizens of Serbia who have obliged us not to keep quiet, to speak on their behalf, it is not possible for you to react whenever anyone, when any citizen of Serbia is declared a foreign mercenary, traitor, enemy of Serbia. The consequences of living every day. The consequences, among other things, and the bloody head of our colleague Borko Stefanovic. There is no theoretical chance that under normal conditions the session we should talk about is going on about why pensions are not coming back to the pensioners, why it continues with the ban on employment, why a national stadium is being built at the moment when mothers and families are being humiliated by the charity you give from the government. There is no way, unless you react this drastically and dramatically seriously, in normal conditions, to continue this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50472	There's only one thing I'm going to agree with you to do is not discuss the most important budget law like this, but you don't allow it from the moment you all entered the O.R. together to this second. But Article 103, Section 8. goes for you, too. You've been talking for three minutes and six seconds. Go ahead, Petrovich. Here you go. I'm from Runjan, too. [[Dusan Petrovic: I said replica.]] So I vote. Take it easy. Let's hear more of these, uh, damages to the Rules of Procedure. That's how the budget is discussed today. Will you take off your mask, I don't know if it's you or Diana or who it is? Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50473	Madam President, I am advocating Rule 107, the dignity of the National Assembly. Why I wore a mask all the time, now I had to take it off, so you could hear me. But simply out of this amount of hate, especially the hatred that comes from the speech of Mr Martinovic, who is the president of the SNS parliamentary group, a man cannot, without being disgusted by that amount of hate and that amount of fluid and simply has to put on a mask so as not to breathe the same air. So, he's sitting in session, and right now, he wants to blow up the real state of things and make all of us out of the opposition look as bad as we're being tried here. He treats us like traitors, murderers, foreign mercenaries, people who are a real scumbag, and he's a college professor and not one college but more colleges, even because of him, some people get fired for who it's the only job and it's women. So, Alexander Martinovic here judges us without a court, he judges us here without a jury, he laughs now, because of course he doesn't know what else to say. Maybe in a few years when things change, they'll say, well, I admit, again, I was a donkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50474	Since this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've given yourself a replica, although I don't know on what basis, Article 103, Section 8, of course. The People's Messenger throws it away. So who? Well, no one mentioned you? No one from Capca mentioned you, no one. Maybe we'd love to, but no one did. Article 104(3) read before you start yelling. Easy, I got it all figured out. Just stupid wouldn't understand what this is all about this morning. Let me run the session. I'm running a little bit, a little bit of you hurting the Rules of Procedure, and it's all clear, what now. Tomorrow you won't come, I've got it all figured out. Article 104(3) of the replica determines someone else, not one who wants to. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does he want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50475	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before explaining my first amendment, I would like to congratulate our President, Mr Alexander Vukic, on receiving the International Golden Lion Award for Peace in Venice for 2018. It is proud of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To be a world peace ambassador in 2018, and to be encouraged by the Balkans, which they have often called an incubator of wars and whose children have grown up for war for generations, is the result of a strong effort to promote peace, a water contribution of international reach that characterizes our president's mandate. This is proof that in Serbia and the whole region there is that silent nameless majority who want peace, who sees it as a condition of all conditions, as a random need, and who wants a new era after a century of death where it is a virtue to bear and live, help, cure, and no longer kill and no more die. The efforts our president makes to normalise relations with Pristina, despite the provocations and aggressive attitudes of some of our neighbours, are one of the reasons why the "Golden Lion" for peace came into Mr. Alexander Vukic's hands. When it comes to the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, it enables faster and more effective exercise of rights as well as the exchange of information by state authorities, i.e. e. e-government, and provides a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records in Serbia. It is a reform law that will benefit citizens, as the administration will be faster and more efficient. The application of this law should establish a single mandatory social security database that will allow unwitting employers who avoid payment of contributions to be quickly identified. As a health care worker, I want to thank our president and our government for announcing an increase in wages from seven to 12% of all public sector employees. When fiscal consolidation is achieved in our country's budget and GDP has been growing year by year since when the SNS is in power, then it is possible to plan these increases, which are absolutely justified for the responsible and day-to-day work of most public sector employees, especially in health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50476	The word is Zdravko Stankovic. Where's Zdravko Stankovic? He's not here. Check it out then. So there's not an MP, Zdravko Stankovic. Who's after the amendment? (Maya Vidinović: All of them.) How's everybody doing? How do you know? Maria Janjusevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50477	According to the amendment, since I would like to join the congratulations of Alexander Vukic, because he has managed to achieve the dream of Bate Santos and "teleprompts" on two channels live at the same time. But I would also like to pass on to both Alexander Vukic and Bati Gasic, the message of a woman from Serbia, recently passed on to him from Kruševac and Dragan, a committee member from Vrsac, that women in Serbia do not kneel. As for the hatred you respect all the time and try to call us who have nothing to do with the Brussels Agreement traitors, here, I suggest we cut the story short – will you sign a legally binding agreement with the non-existent state of Kosovo or not? To finish the story and know exactly who in Serbia is a traitor. The hate you honor us for is actually yours. You actually hate yourself. I don't know what you have in common, which is why you all hate yourselves, and you think about it. We are in opposition fighting for the survival of Serbia, not to bring down Alexander Vukic, and now that it is one of the same things, unfortunately, it is unfortunately both opposition and all Serbian citizens and it is our obligation to bring down Alexander Vukic and Serbia that we give the opportunity to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50478	Is that it? Are you done? Well, I won't interrupt. I don't want to interrupt, although this has nothing to do with the amendment. There's the seriousness you're talking about. Who else is after the amendment? Here you go. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50479	Thank you, President. Here you allow him to continue to behave in any way he pleases. One gentleman here just gave a lesson to us, the same one who said he wasn't a coward so he could move to SNS, who said that Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic were propagators of American politics, that they got money from them. That same man is talking to someone here about abuses, receiving three salaries at the same time, or four, great teacher of yours, nonexistent, at higher school. And he's been teaching someone around here all the time without you considering it to be a single word to say. He who today propagates the policy of humiliating Serbia and the Serb people, one who advocates sitting in power with Ramush Haradinaj, doing criminal mafia affairs in Kosovo together with him, to the detriment of the Serb people, who here says we are traitors, should look at ourselves first and then give and teach lessons to others. The one who's saying they're Serbs, in fact, are the Serbs who blamed you and your president who said they were the guilty Serbian people and who else knows who's going on in Kosovo. Everything you do, you honor someone else. So let me remind you that you need to remember that you have been in power for seven years, for seven years you have ruled Serbia. One thing you can't compare yourself to Milosevic, because he was an i-hi-hi, a gentleman and an honest man for you. So you participated in that government when Serbia ended the war and when many people lost their lives. But one thing's for sure, what you're doing today, spreading this ambience in society, this kind of haranga to everyone who doesn't think the same as you testify only to the fear that you now have and one more thing. By something you will truly be remembered, never in Serbia, in the history of Serbia was ruled by larger liars and larger robbers. You robbed Serbia for the past seven years and you keep robbing it, accusing others of being guilty. Well, he can't. You rule, those others should be in jail, if they're wrong about the law and if they've stolen it. And you are the biggest liars, along with your boss, who walked Serbia, who identified the state and organized crime, criminals rule Serbia. You were more upset that Albanians wanted to arrest Radojicic than our people downstairs were threatened in Kosovo and that Oliver Ivanovic was killed. You're having a problem with your business partners, your criminals, being questioned about all sorts of things. It's a picture and an opportunity of your rule. Go out to the public and tell them the truth, don't cowardly put it on others and draw a target on the forehead that someone else is a traitor. None of these people here made deals with Blair, you did. Let Blair help you now, and let him solve the crisis in Kosovo. Where are your friends from America, the world and Europe, when Serbia has such a great reputation, how do you want to present it all the time? Well, the Serbian people have never been more humiliated than you and in Kosovo. In Kosovo, these people lost everything during your reign, everything they had until 2012. They lost the state, they lost institutions, you forced them into power with war criminal Ramush Haradinaj, who killed their children down there. Shame on you for that. You'd better respect someone else for the fact that he's nailed some kind of nail, that he's set the limits. No, it's you. You are, but you want to change the truth with lies. You want to show that it's not documents that prove it, it's your lies that you keep talking about and your sermons. You should be ashamed of that. Well, then we can talk and work things out normally, not in this way, cowardly and traitorous, with lies and crime, corruption and robbery you've been carrying out in Serbia for the past seven years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50480	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50481	In one, I agree with the previous speaker. I really was, I have the courage to repeat it, the donkey and I really said about Alexander Wolfie something that isn't true. Here, you see, unlike you, I have the courage to look you in the eye and tell you that. [[The opposition's emissaries applaud.]] But Alexander Vukic is a very great man and a very great statesman, when he managed against himself to unite the vampires of Ustasha, when he succeeded in uniting those who now want Njegoš to write him out of our heart and enroll him in a new communal. He is a very great man when he was able to unite Ramush Haradinaj, Hashim Thaci, Hoxhai and similar to them. He's a very great man when he managed to unite all of you who even St. Peter couldn't unite three years ago. He did it. So, all of you, former ministers, former Prime Ministers, people who were brought in on 5 October 2000 and who ruled Serbia for 12 years. So Alexander Vukic is a really great man and a great statesman. Only against the great statesmen can such a force of Serb enemies unite. As for some meetings with criminals discussed by the gentleman who sold the party to Vuk Jeremic, well, here he was in a photo of your Vuk Jeremic in Hong Kong on April 5th 2013, holding a record at a meeting of the suspect Lozoya with that Patrick Hom, while he was chairman of the UN General Assembly. Here, that's the man who says he's a traitor. And here's what your future Culture Minister Sergei Trifunovic, who you swore to yesterday, says that I don't know if you swear today, says – The Legion fought in Kosovo against the Kosovo Liberation Army, did not beat Serbs in the streets. However, sometimes when he got drunk, he slapped on clubs and took off earrings, but these are diametrically different things, Sergey Trifunovic wrote. So now I ask you, are you behind the words of your future culture minister? And explain once to the citizens of Serbia this great unknown who has been following the Legion since 5 October 2000 until today. Is he a criminal or a hero? Is he a traitor, or is he someone responsible for Serbia? Did he help you take power on October 5th, so on March 12, 2003, he became enemy number one, and now in 2018, I see you're celebrating him again as a hero? So, explain to Serbian citizens what your future Culture Minister Sergei Trifunovic really means. Aleksandar Vukic is a great man, followed by something that didn't go to anyone in Serbia's history, managed to unite all Serbian enemies against himself. I know it's not easy for him, it's hard for him, but the citizens of Serbia are with him, the Serbian people are with him, both from Serbia and Republika Srpska, and from Montenegro and from Kosovo and Metohija, and from Macedonia, and wherever Serbs live. In it, and I know it hurts you, in it Serbs in all the former Yugoslav republics see their true leader. They can't see either in Dragan Gilas, or in Vuk Jeremic, or in this former justice minister, or in what he sold meatballs and burned electricity bills in barrels, they see in Aleksandra Vukic. And this lady ambassador from Rome was putting on a mask, so it's nothing new, so you've come to power with masks, with phantoms, with automatic rifles, with machine guns, you've been breaking into the National Assembly, into the Federal Customs Administration, into the National Bank of Serbia. Only that time has passed, the fifth of October is over and will never happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50482	By amendment, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50483	Mr. Chairman, I will respond reciprocally, as the previous speech has characterized us all here, who has dealt with, who is what, who is what, and who is the opposition, I will also, since it is extremely important that the citizens of Serbia know who put together the draft budget, the most important law in one year for 2019. Citizens have to worry, as they worry over the past seven years, that no Serbian citizen will have enough money in his wallet, enough fuel in the tank and enough food in the fridge while the SNS is in power. It's a budget he put together, for example. Minister Alexander Vulin, who stole 300,000 euros, said it was his gift from his aunt from Canada. The budget was drawn up by Mr. Martinovic, who, in order to secure his seventh salary, the citizens of Serbia, the seventh salary, while you do not have a single salary, hired himself at a medical school in Ćupria, which has nothing to do with it. The budget was drawn up by a minister known for affairs and Belgrade's worst mayor in Belgrade's history, Sinisa Mali, who has 24 apartments in Bulgaria alone. The budget was drawn up by Mr. Orlic, who had the same little five salaries, so he provided himself with a sixth salary at the Higher Medical School in Ćupria, while firing women, mothers and people who have been professional and who have worked for many years at that school. That budget was also made up by geniuses, i.e. Belgrade Mayor Goran Vesic, and their commander-in-chief approved the budget. Alexander Vukic, a man who is in coalition with Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci, who presents to us every day how difficult it is, what a crisis it is, how he can't stand all these pressures. Well, I'm ordering him to resign, so he doesn't torture himself and that he no longer tortures the citizens of Serbia, who barely make ends meet. These stories of your municipality presidents resigning, and the ministers did not, the SNS is still in the government of Ramush Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci, and that is what Serbian citizens should know. The budget is probably being drawn up and Tomislav Nikolic, who is still gardening in the state villa today, for a year and a half after leaving the government, is gardening in the state villa, has a state salary. And, I am proud to have been a member of the main party committee whose president was Boris Tadic because this move also showed the difference that neither he nor Aleksandar Vukic Boris can clean shoes. Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50484	Have you finished your colleague Milojičić? I'm asking because I don't want to interrupt. By amendment, MP Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50485	Thank you, Chairman. I am reporting on the amendment of my colleague Borka, since she spoke about the fact that this fund, or social insurance bond register, should certainly contribute to making it more transparent, reducing administration, making it faster and easier for all of us. But now, I ask myself, this time, first of all, Mr. Finance Minister Sinisha Malloy, this is his first draft budget with which he came to the Serbian Parliament. I'm sorry, perhaps you, or at least you should be sorry that the SNS MPs made it impossible for you to discuss the details of each amendment that the opposition has submitted. I believe that you should be angry and because this most important bill is not on the first item of the agenda, it is only the fourth point of the agenda. That's probably what you need to discuss with yourself. Secondly, Mr. Minister, you say and most of them here say, the budget is balanced. Of course it's balanced, we need to have equal income and spend as much as we earn, but don't you think that if we want to say that the budget and reform is, one day we need to touch public enterprises and the wage system in the public sector. That's what the Fiscal Council told you. The two biggest flaws we need to say here is an unsettled public pay system in the sector. One day, if anyone looks at us from young people now, what's going on here, it's probably gonna be tens of them tomorrow, thousands of them packing bags and leaving, and at one point we won't have anyone else to report to this mandatory social security register. So please, as Minister of Finance and you as a representative of the government, because you create in general what is happening in Serbia and you create the way the opposition will react to your draft laws. So I ask you to pay in the public sector at least in 2019 to start system reforming, to start once and to list all jobs in the public sector and even at least to pay, let's say administrative staff at the Ministry of Finance, in public agencies and in public enterprises. You probably know that the salaries of highly educated people in your ministry are in the administration of about 35, 40, 45 thousand dinars. The salaries of highly educated young people are also in local self - government. I don't want to go any further, I'm just going to go from my son who's a graduate architect of architecture and works for 38,000 dinars. Do you believe that if we have salaries like this for young and educated people one day we will have someone to report to the Register of Mandatory Social Security? So I ask you to deal with public enterprises, reform public enterprises, to deal with paying classes, because no one can touch this because of strong union organisations in public enterprises, above all, into the EPS. I ask you to consider whether it should continue to remain in force of the Law on the ban on employment in the public sector. With this law that lasts four years, we've mutilated many systems. I'm only going to name one social security system, because, first of all, I'm coming from it. Hundreds of jobs remain unfulfilled due to a natural outflow from social protection. Centres for Social Work and many social protection institutions are faced with the lack of professional staff to do their job normally and to work normally for what the state pays them for. Probably not this year, and last year, the ministry told us that on the government's commission, which, by the way, looks and serves to be a narrow throat and control body that will give the green light to hire only someone close to the SNS or who will implement SNS policy. I ask you to think carefully about whether your budget is reformal and to pay attention to everything the opposition MPs have been showing you here for days, and also to take care of what they respect or at least tell you as a well-intentioned critic of the members of the Fiscal Council, who, among other things, are paid to follow how fiscal policy is conducted in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50486	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic): Now he will say something smart. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50487	With regard to everything that Alexander Vukic and the SNS said about a former member of the General Board or something, some structure in some former party, mostly one of the former among all these former exes, who also wanted to point out or point out, as he said, that he had a spine and his firm stand as he said he would never accept that the coordinator would be here, and yet he did, the proven and self-proclaimed proud LJotic. Speaking of this man, the game of the case, I kind of found what this Ljotic guy had to say about this former and former ex and all those exes in his Ljotic newspaper in 2000, so as we speak, let them observe and remind themselves a little bit. These, ladies and gentlemen, are all citizens of Serbia together in their own opinion. They are, therefore, American SCOJ and today likely agree on this, as they agree on everything else and with Mr. co-ordinator Dragan Gilas and each other. Speaking of former exes, they certainly include former Mayor Dragan Djilas with his fantastic turnover of 300m euros while he was in political office, because this is an extremely honest man and former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who, behold, met nicely with white-world criminals, thieves and arms dealers. The former ones certainly include all those who try today, collected from the stake and rope, to honor Alexander Vukic on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija. How many exes have there been among those who have honored to transfer a package of powdered milk to our endangered people these days? We didn't see one thing. How many of the former exes tried to transfer a diaper package to our endangered people in Kosovo and Metohija? Looks like it's the only ex-face again. How many of them tried to get the drugs? How much medical material? How much in any way, not just these days, but in their miserable careers has ever tried to help our people in Kosovo and Metohija? (President: Bringing the end. Never in any way, if we do not count on them personally to be on Jarinj today and that someone can stand on Brnjak today who will take humanitarian aid, who will also take that milk powder, when someone sends it, to take away, who will take away the diaper packages and everything else. In the end, yes, this is all already seen. Among other things, in that Pristina parliament, that's what Vetvednosje does, and here are the former former ladies who stand. I don't just know who was the initiator of all this, because he's very nervous, is Gilas seeing the ratings or Pacoli pulling a confession from the 11th state? Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50488	The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50489	Thank you. I am sorry that MP Gorica Gajic did not stay here for more than five minutes in parliament, because I wanted to discuss her amendment, but in the way she explained it, that is, to talk about the Budget Act, which is point 4. So, all day long, there is one untruth here that MPs who support the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not allow MPs, who think they are opposition and we do not dispute them, we only dispute what the opposition are, that we do not allow them to talk about their amendments that they have proposed at point 4 and that is certainly not true. It takes a good day, good after, when we finish this work day, to think about what happened here today and how the opposition showed up here at the same time. They all do the same thing, they say the same thing. What's this about? I didn't hate to see how many of those amendments at point 4. Budget law, even passed by MPs who stand in part, and some sit on the back of chairs or some... Anyway, we're leaving that... (Alexander Martinovic: It's only good until they take them home. All right. Yeah, once we've seen a ride home, but no one's gonna bring back those chairs, chairs and pictures. That's another story. The total number of amendments to the Budget Law of all opposition parties here, not only of those standing, is 175 amendments and 75 amendments from today's buds here. (Radoslav Milojic: Messenger! Nobody can prove it to me... We could've gone a long way today... (Radoslav Milojić): What is the noiser? Don't throw it at me. That's what every taste line represents when someone tries to discuss today without yelling, not screaming, not insulting, but normal talking. (Radoslav Milojić): What is the noiser? I don't know. Explain. I will explain later in the discussion if you allow me, dear colleague, to continue. So no one can convince me, nor can any of the citizens of Serbia who spend all day watching this bad show today directed by certain MPs, noisers, and I will explain to you what that means. So it is not from the word “speak. ” Don't think it's offensive, but in the way you treat it here in Parliament -- yell, make noise. It's the loudspeakers. If we couldn't discuss these 75 amendments today and that in the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, we couldn't spend that time just to discuss those 75 amendments. What's the point, and you're going to let me have my own political opinion and attitude, that in this budget for 2019 there was really nothing to blame. All the praises of the IMF, from the World Bank, are indications that this country is actually moving forward economically. Well, if you'd like, the other day of commendation from the European Parliament, which we don't like at all. They immediately tried to make some kind of amendment to propose and adopt a general picture of positive progress in economic and political terms of Serbia. It had to come here today to sit down, try to make a mess, scream, tell the truth about how we draw the targets. Forty of them repeated the same sentence, allowing you to insult all of us who support the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You tried to humiliate those MPs from the opposition who didn't want to join you, to scream here, to stand there, to lie down, to put on masks, hats, panorams, and I don't know what, as long as the imagination is political to go far. Let me tell you something, the honourable MPs you've now gathered in some recent coalition, in 2000, have passed a long time ago. (Radoslav Milojic: He will come again. ) As anyone sees, what happened on October 5, 2000, whether there were positive or negative results, the picture was black, there were good things, much more bad things, so you lost the election after 12 years of government and 16 in Vojvodina. But what one of the participants and big advocates thinks, someone who is certainly not on this political side, is that you should simply go to the theater, JDP, to look at the show "The Door of Glass", Biljana Srbanovic and Jagos Markovic and see what someone who participated recently with you and about these 5 events. October, and who doesn't respect us at all, how does he feel about the results of the 5th? October and your reign. So we don't have to tell you anything, you go see what someone thinks who was chasing along with you five. October, here and to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank, even the tennis club in Novi Sad. I remember and there you made some kind of crisis headquarters, I guess you should have done something there, no idea what was going on five. October. What's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's... And Sinisha Mali was there. I don't have a problem with who was there on October 5th, I don't mind that at all, do I, Zivkovic? The least bothers me is what happened on October 5, 2000. (Zoran Zivkovic: Don't throw it away, this isn't your bus stop. But the results speak, and don't make fun of it here. You mock citizens of Serbia who gave 56% of the votes to Alexander Vukic in the last elections. You're laughing at them. They're not nice enough, are they? They're not good enough, are they? They're not worth it? I guess they don't see it with their own eyes. You should make them see. I guess by force, how do I know? Who today honors the results of Alexander Vukic and this government? Well, people who failed to cross the census in the Belgrade elections. I'm sorry to notice that, but these are the last choices that have happened in our country. Belgrade, that's a third of Serbia. (Radoslav Milojic: Local. Ma, local. I don't see my country's capital as some kind of place, I see it as a political rapper. Census did not pass, and here you mock Alexander Vukic, who two days ago won, the president of my country, your state, the state of your voters, our voters, if any, in Serbia, it is a shame to share Serbian citizens with voters, these or those... Radoslav Milojic: You share them. )......................................................................................................... He's won a peace prize in the general disturbance that's happening in our space. (Zoran Zivkovic: From whom? ) Look what's going on in the region. He got a "Golden Lion". The "Golden Lion" is worth the same as the "Bambi" prize, which Zoran Djindjic seems to have won in 2001 in Berlin. It's the exact same reward. (Zoran Zivkovic: There was no such thing as 2001) Equal reward, by value, by criteria, by all means. By those who assign. Even "Golden Lion" is more valuable and we didn't laugh at Zoran Djindjic when he went to Berlin, actress, never mind Claudia Schiffer was there, I remember everything. When you're this old, you better remember the one from 18 years ago and he won that award, from a model, from an actor, but it was nice for a Serbia in 2001. It is equally beautiful and important that the president of Serbia has won the peace award, at these times, when people do not give oxygen to people in Kosovo, they do not give medicine. Yesterday, they stopped buses with toys, diapers, and they wouldn't let them read newspapers in Europe in the 21st century. (Radoslav Milojic: what are you sitting down for? What are you sitting in power with Thaci? ) When there is chaos in the streets in Paris, when MPs are arrested in Montenegro, that is, when in Macedonia politicians flee Macedonia for buying a car, in general chaos when making some coalitions against Serbia, you allow yourself to enter the Serbian Parliament here and make chaos and then, like these, they say we are traitors. No, how's a regular citizen out there watching this transmission gonna feel about you? What's he gonna... (Radoslav Milojic: No, we should support you. No, you shouldn't support us, no, but don't do this. I am proud that the president of the state has won the peace award at this time, and it is not ours and yours, it is the President of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia. The budget is good, so you've only submitted 75 amendments and you've saved your time, don't waste your time on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure can't be eaten by an ordinary citizen, he has no idea what you're talking about. What kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure? Article 27, item this, 103, 107. They just see that you've been doing it all day. (Zoran Zivkovic: They're not as stupid as you, they know. They're homo sapiens, they're intellectuals. Yes, you've only submitted 75 amendments, so it's a victory for the ruling majority. You had nothing to object to. Fifteen hours are scheduled for discussion. Why didn't you let us talk about the Budget Law? Why didn't you let us spend those 15 hours at point four? (Radoslav Milojic: Who is defending you? You've all done that there's no argument. You don't want that debate. You won't be having this debate because this post-2012 budget is for a tenth of all economic parameters in the world. The World Bank, the IMF, the European Parliament, no one understands you, even the least you understand is an ordinary citizen of this country. What the hell are you guys doing? What are you doing? It is not clear to anyone, except that you want to endanger Serbia's positions at an uneasy moment, not an easy moment. (Radoslav Milojic: Please resign if you find it difficult. ) You can say after my discussion whatever you want, but Serbian citizens can't understand you, you're on a bad path, and if you don't have money, if you have small salaries, I'll buy you tickets for the "Glass Door", it's excellent, it's instructive, well summed up the results of the five-octobarian revolution in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50490	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50491	I, Mr. Chairman, have reported by amendment, and I would sincerely give the advantage of Minister Sinisha Malo, if he wishes to report by line or in a replica to respond to Parliament's president. First of all, I did 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, yes, I did politics, but locally, I was a kid. Finance Minister Sinisha Mali was a product of 5. October and the fit of the parties who made the 5th. October. Maybe he could replicate what the President of Parliament was saying. Even if we wanted to talk about the first law, about the Central Register, who should we talk to? Where are your ministers? Where's the government? Where are the ministers who proposed 62 laws and put them all in one item of the agenda? Who should we talk to about the Central Register? Who should we talk to about the other points of the agenda? Sinisha Mali is the finance minister, we can talk to him about the budget, but he's not on the agenda, and you know it, and that's why you didn't invite the other ministers because there won't be any other laws on the agenda, we won't be able to talk about them. What should we talk about? About Serbia being in a state of emergency. In a state of emergency, parliament is now. You've led us not to talk about what we have the right to talk about. Workers are in a state of emergency, watching as the first one comes ten days early in the month, how the month has less days to endure with its salary. The pensioners are in a state of emergency. You led them to an existential struggle. There's no word about returning what was taken from them in four years tens and hundreds of thousands of dinars. Part of Serbia's youth is not in a state of emergency because there is no state of emergency in Germany, Austria, Canada, America. The ones who stayed here are in a state of emergency. Minister, who are we going to address in 20 years and who are you talking to today? How many futures are there in this budget? According to official OECD data, 100,000 people have left Serbia annually over the last six years. Forty thousand people die more than they are born. 140 thousand people are less in Serbia annually. In six years, as long as you're in power, 840,000 people are gone in Serbia or gone or not alive. That's the percentage of 25 to 11%. It's a shame to talk about you hiring people. Young people have to kneel today, train a white man, take a sandwich, take a bus, then a circus, go around Serbia, pat on the mitts. It's a future for young people today. That's what we need to talk about. And we'd talk if we had a chance. This is our protest. We have the right to stand here. We have a right to talk about it. Answer these questions. Get involved in the debate. Unblock the parliament. Unblock the company already. If not, we'll do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50492	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50493	I have reported that I am advertising the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, and Article 108, which I think you have violated, during the presentation of the previous pay phone, or the President of the Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, although I understand that you are complicit in this circus and in this arena of hatred that you have been creating for years from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. She pointed out in her presentation, you didn't give me your word right away, that she remembered well. Well, let's also remember that we, who are here, weren't born yesterday to believe in the fairy tales of the Serbian Progressive Party of Aleksandr Vukic. She called us noises, of course, by hiding that it was a reaction to the hoofs, to those who were hoarding our citizens and against our citizens during the 1990s in the red-black coalition, I will mention again, in which she was the minister without portfolios, which many forget, where the perjanica was also Alexander Martinovic, in the red-black coalition which in war and in black turned this country and the whole region. We're not suffering from collective amnesia, we're not noisers, but you're tickers. And what you did in the '90s, you're trying to do now, to bully citizens against each other, thinking that someone would kill instead of you, as you killed and were responsible for both Slavko Curuvija and the atmosphere when Zoran Djindjic was killed, both for 16 January and Oliver Ivanovic, and for the broken head of Borko Stefanovic. And you won't blame us. We react, and you are the hoarders, and you will be remembered forever as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50494	On the basis of article 103, item 8, minute and 47 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. (Marinika Tepic: I want to make a statement about the injury. I am not obliged to answer you for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the infringements of the Rules of Procedure relate directly to those done. You used the right to breach the Rules of Procedure and replicated it, there's no harm to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103, Article 107. Here, this is their culture. I'll never turn my back on them, no matter how many bad things they do. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 103, Mr. Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, says that "the breach of the Rules of Procedure is indicated directly by the injury done". Mrs. Tepic didn't do it. So, Mr. Nikolic spoke. She reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure that two speakers had done before. It's not allowed and I support you for taking that time. But those who claim that, in that case, a number of insults have been made, and those who claim that nothing is allowed, all the time in the last three hours, you can take away 20 minutes, the roughest insults us that we are thieves, that we are murderers, that we killed Oliver, that we don't know what we did. I ask you to keep an eye on them from being allowed in the future. Freedom is good, but it is limited by the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. You have to take care of what the President of the Republic is accused of, what they accuse the ruling majority of, why they insult the most, why they claim we're murderers, why they claim we're robbers, when everything they say about us is them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50496	Thank you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about your injury to the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word is from a colleague, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50497	Just to piss off a colleague in an O.R. who really can't take it when someone has a different opinion. I'm sorry that MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić put on a mask and wants to be fenced by Diana Vukomanovic, it's obvious. (Diana Vukomanovic: It's not because of me, it's because of your exposure. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Because of you. Don't get upset, everything's fine. Endurance freedom of speech and opinion, I can stand up, as can you. Just to remind my colleague, Sandu Raskovic Ivić, as he holds the mask and stands next to Dijana Vukomanovic, that it is simply nice to have you fenced from a colleague who was a red-and-black coalition until the other day. So when you get some respect, think about it and guess who's coming over for dinner, and that's where I mean a colleague who's running out of the O.R. right now, 'cause she can't just take it. She was pretty until recently, so everything was fine, so no one's criticizing her, so she's sitting there tucked in, and then from the red-and-black coalition suddenly, one morning, she flew into a coalition of some other colors. (Miroslav Aleksic: Ouch, so don't talk about it. ) But you should know that when they talk about 2000, about 2010, about 2015, about 2018, well, they also think about you. It doesn't matter what you moved in with them yesterday. Well, they mean what you were supporting until yesterday. I want to thank you for not having the nerve to listen to someone else's opinion, for spending some money, so you tweet something about me right now. Thank you for thinking that I'm having a discussion with someone. Thank you, colleague. I don't have a stroke. I have my political opinion, my political position. I'm not afraid of those who yell, especially in a group, who come in together, get up, yell, yell, yell. I have never been afraid, and the least I fear is when I praise the results of the work of the President of the Republic of Serbia, because 56% of the people in this country who went to the elections are behind it. I'm not afraid at all. So, whether it's a commendation of good results or it's a slap or it's an insult that I, at the moment, have, Sergei Trifunovic, future culture minister, who's a good actor, but he has no idea about politics, wrote that he called me as if I was coming to his foundation on the board of directors, don't God, because I've done a lot for the children of Serbia, but I'm inaccessible. I'm available, it's no problem, I'm just looking out for who I'm giving the phone number to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50498	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50499	Thank you, Chairman. (Diana Vukomanovic: Replica. Name and last name I was mentioned. You're not going to give a replica, to honor the Rules of Procedure? The Rules of Procedure oblige you to give the replica immediately after the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50500	None of the replica conditions have been met. (Radoslav Milojic: It is mentioned. ) (Diana Vukomanovic: Yes, my name and last name. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50501	Both conditions have been met, except for the last one, your will to give someone a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50502	Comrade Djurishic, you've come forward after the amendment. I'm asking you to speak by amendment. And the fact that someone put on masks, and the other MP commented, is not the basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50503	It's not the basics? Okay. Many things in this congregation and the congregation debate are clearly not according to the Rules of Procedure today. This whole debate and this way of collapsing the dignity of the Assembly, which has lasted for a year, a year, when every session scheduled in the previous 12 months had the unification of all agenda points in a single agenda, in a single debate, in a way that made it impossible to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at each point in the agenda that is ahead of us. That's the case today. You have brought together a discussion of 62 points of the agenda, so that MPs could not speak either of the Budget Law, or amendments, of the budgetary system, of the tax laws, of public property laws, of the Law on Civil Service Employees, of the delaying reintroduction of payment classes, of the appointment of new judges, of agreements, of the Law on Nuclear Protection and of many other things. This is where the question arises from now on, the MPs of the opposition, and we are declaring ourselves the loudspeakers. I have to repeat what my colleague Tepic said – because you are the wrinklers, we are the boomers today. The cooing that has been going on here for two and a half years has led to the broken head of our former counterpart Borko Stefanovic. Did you think that we would keep quiet here, that we would compete with you and spend time arguing one way or another? We won't. I understand why you're talking about 2000 today, October 5th passed in 2000 and will not return, but I didn't think that the time of the 1990s will come back, or the insolence in Serbia that has led to numerous casualties, the insolence in the former Yugoslavia that has led to civil war, death and the persecution of hundreds of thousands of people for whom you are responsible. Some of you were in power back then, in the government, and some supported that power all those years ago. A great effort has been made since October 5th 2000 to restore Serbia to normal, civilized states and steps have been made seven miles. Were there any mistakes? Yeah, there were mistakes, of course. Who works, he's wrong. A lot of mistakes have been made. What's happening today is a farce, a mockery of democracy. You're talking about some kind of citizens' will in elections that weren't fair and democratic. What did the OSCE mission say to oversee the election? She said the 2017 elections were not fair and democratic, and you boast of those elections and the results of your president. President Alexander Vukic is not my president. No, in such a winning election, elections where other candidates had less than 5% of the time to present in the media, all together. How much did Mr. Alexander Wolf have? Thank you for that, and you think that's normal. It's not normal. What you are today being tolerated by the International Community and you think it can last forever, it only takes because you made a deal with Mr Hashim Thaci and Haradinaj to complete the Kosovo issue as it does not correspond to Serbia's interests. So today you're silent about everything you do here in Serbia, you're destroying institutions, you're destroying democracy, you're destroying this Parliament by doing it this way. Yeah, we're making noise and noise today, but the damage we're doing is much less than the damage you've done. creating such an atmosphere in parliament. For a year, you won't let parliament work normally, that we can't talk, that we can't discuss. What does a discussion of 62 points of the agenda look like together? (Igor Becic: You're the only one who's been talking all day!) Why don't you sanction this roaring from this House Speaker's room? Igor Becic: You've been yelling all day! ) Your tightness has led to the broken heads of our colleague Borko Stefanovic's broken heads and we will not be silent and wait for our heads to be broken, not a single Serbian citizen's head just because he doesn't think the way you think. Those who today think they can repeat time from the end of the '90s, the murder of political opponents, they're wrong, they're wrong. I believe the citizens of Serbia learned that lesson. They recognize what they thought was long ago, that it is possible to draw targets, call people, political opponents and non-extinct foreign mercenaries, traitors, people working against Serbia's interests. I don't admit it. I don't accept that someone here is more patriotic than me. I don't admit it. It's an insult to me that someone tells me that they're more patriots and that they prefer this country than I am. What you are doing will have lasting consequences for Serbia's democratic life. The way you have destroyed parliament by working, by disposing of parliament's work in the last year has led to today's consequences of what is happening in parliament. There is a consequence that we will fight here for our right to say what we think is not good, to say what we disagree with in the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state. It's our right to stand in that Constitution, which you now fantasize here, and where the Rules of Procedure is. Read the Constitution as well. Read the Rules of Procedure's rights and obligations. The citizens who chose you, they chose us, they believed in something else, they believed in something you don't believe in, and it's our duty to fight for their right to hear that voice here, and we will fight for it to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50504	Dude, I let you finish, you talked about what you wanted, so you don't need to get upset. The word is from a colleague, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50505	I suppose I can do the same as Marko Djurisic and I shouldn't be afraid to speak in this House. Radoslav Milojic: On what basis? ) On the basis of being an MP, what Serbian citizens voted for the list I was on and on the basis of the fact that I can't scream, swear, etc., that I represent calm and quiet Serbia. I guess those three reasons are enough for someone to get a word in this House. Let me just say something. We heard today a very moving speech about democracy in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, about the amendment, about what else, but all day just about the amendments. I don't know what democracy's development is that it's already two years old, those who are yelling today, which is noisers, we're not giving up on our grades, you simply showed what your mission is today, and that's to yell, to spoil this session, it's not a problem, the session is better than I planned, because the masks have fallen and you can see what kind of intentions for this point, just these MPs, who today have ruined this session and don't give us any serious talk about the bill proposals, suggest some 220, each time ten, twenty, 500 times the agenda with nonsense, for something that the Rulesman doesn't recognize in millimeters or millimetres. So they don't propose the law by that name, nor do we know what it says. They propose 500 survey committees on every topic that comes to mind, and that's like strengthening democracy in Serbia? Is that your contribution to democracy, dear colleague? It is something that has announced that your MPs will respond in their own way, too, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Don't wash yourself off your responsibility. And today and the other day, 220 additions to the agenda. We read the same headlines five, six times just a different date. This is what I suggested in 2016, 2017, and this morning, this secretary of mine didn't consult me, so I took down with the fax this morning, but I'm going to get up three times... Yeah, it's funny. Three times to get up, so I'll say what I want, and that's strengthening the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. It's a joke with the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and you've been doing it for two years, and don't disrespect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been going to the elections since 2012. That's what I'm telling you well-intentioned. I don't care about SNS, I don't care about SDS, SPS and all those who don't comment ugly on Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens go to the polls. Let me tell you something, the citizens of Serbia are always right, always right when they punish some political option and give some political option absolute trust. Do not underestimate Serbian citizens, they know why they do not vote to supplement the agenda, 220, 230, but vote for concrete results, for what Aleksandar Vukic has been doing for six years. Serbia's citizens did not make a mistake in 2012. It seems to you because they kept silent that they made a historic mistake, that they accidentally voted for Tomislav Nikolic, that they accidentally voted for a list led by Aleksandar Vukic. No, it's not. They didn't make a mistake. They didn't make a mistake. They knew. They knew. They knew that Vuk Jeremic was taking a plane to go to London to watch the match at Wimbledon of Novak Djokovic. Well, they knew he was taking a state plane. He can't hide anything. Well, they knew that Boris Tadic, and I never said about him in my life, and here people never said, MPs -- he's not my Serbian president, because it's ugly to say, voted, not to vote for him. Voted, didn't vote for him, that's not said. (Dusan Petrovic: You, Maya, were with us then. ) Okay. In 2012, I was changing with Diana Vukomanovic, who was on Ivica's list until the day before yesterday and stole his mandate. She went into parliament here because Ivica Dacic introduced her to parliament, and now she's your feather, must prove herself more than you do in order for you to forgive her for the time when she didn't work out. I understand her. Well, she has to be in the front row. That's so, what to do. Right, Petrovic? It doesn't mean anything to me that you're throwing away. They knew what you were doing here. They knew Boris Tadic took a private plane and went to Pandorf, so you yell all you want. And he's grounded. They knew who betrayed Kosovo and Metohija, a respected colleague. This wolf of yours, Jeremic, has moved KIM from the UN to the EU. How many friends do we have in the UN, a respected colleague, and how many do we have in the EU? Much less, but he did it. And you can't hide it from the citizens of Serbia. They're not wrong, and as long as you behave like this... Ambassador Stankovic has arrived again. Looks like there's going to be some kind of rush right now. Stankovic, Stevanovic, what's his name? Stankovic. He says it's Stankovic. I respect that. Stankovic, Stevanovic, what's his name. I respect that. I'm sorry that the members of the Home Office had to legitimize you today. They didn't recognize you as an MP, because you're here for the first time today. I apologize to you as President of Parliament. Let me finish. You're not doing well. You're looking for an election, obviously. We'll see if they'll be there. They won't be here in 2020. Take it easy. You guys get ready for that election. But Serbian citizens are infallibly aware that they will only vote for results. Only for results, and the results are on the side of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS and our coalition partners. On your side is two years, 200... Well, I killed you with a parole -- our Maya in the New Sad city elections when the whole of Serbia was yellow except for the town of Novi Sad. Thank you for helping me. So let me tell you, get ready for the election, we're giving you two years. The start is on your side. We'll go with the work results to that election, and you'll go out with 24 months times 220 additions to the agenda. Don't be surprised you went through the way you did in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50506	Thank you. The word is from a fellow MP, Dijana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50507	I thank the chairman. Here, unlike a co-worker who couldn't stand the pressure today and stay in the position of the chairman of the Serbian Parliament, she had to look for security in her ranks, I don't know which, by order, political parties and to dive tears by reading opposition tweets, I am proud to point out that I have voluntarily moved from the party of power into opposition. I am proud to point out that while I was head of the ruling party's parliamentary group, I resigned from the Management Board in "Evening News", and Maja Gojkovic as a graduate... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50508	Thank you, colleague. The opposition's MPs are insolent. My colleagues, please, have not received a replica. Don't tell me... Forty-two seconds is the time your MP group has left. You didn't get the right to a replica. You've wasted your time. [[Diana Vukomanovic: I was looking for a replica.]] So, I'm really sorry. Replica, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50509	Can I have a replica? Yeah. Thank you. You know, the truth is completely on the other side, Mrs. Vukomanovic. You left the SPS just because Ivica Dacic first removed you from the post of head of the parliamentary group, because for two years you kept quiet, you had nothing to say, and the other truth is that he didn't want to put you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be Minister of Education. We all know that. Third, you have returned a seat to the Management Board of "Evening News" so as not to be replaced. There's something you forgot to return, a mandate from the list of Hansel Dacics. You've been there some on the list, and no one's rounding up your name, but the name of Ivica Dacic and his coalition partners. You could have kept that in "Evening News". I don't mind, but return the mandate to the colleagues who brought you into parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50510	Right on line, MP Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50511	As a doctor of political sciences, I know very well that I am reading the most important act of this country, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which allows me and the Law on People's MPs, which allows me to keep what I deserve by my work and knowledge. It's not me that matters here. It's about Maja Gojkovic. I agree with the fact that as president of the Serbian Parliament, it violates the Constitution and puts the highest legislative home in the position of the government's servant and Alexander Vicic. You are directly violating the Constitution, ma'am, and you are humiliating the highest legislative home, and that is why when you answer to history and to the citizens of this country. So learn as a graduate lawyer who dares to be president of the Board of Directors of the Nuclear Security Agency, and with that you have neither education nor knowledge, to submit to this Assembly the draft laws that you do not understand, you yourself said when you read the bill's proposal, to respect the Constitution, ma'am. Do not humiliate him day to day, from hour to hour, and then dive from post office here tears and read opposition tweets. What are you afraid of? What are you stepping down from the presidency? Why are you looking for a safe house amongst a party whose ranks you weren't in when the elections were held, what did you fly over? You want me to refer to you as queen, queen of all flyers. Here I go. Here's what I can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50512	The chairman is never equal with fellow Members. That's what you need to know, and he's always got less rights. Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50513	Normally you slept through the last election when you were with Hansel Dacic. Something's gone wrong. You've taken office now in this assembly. I was on the SNS list and it was, I mean, number three or four. We're not at the market, even though you're standing up like we're at the market, so we're gonna make people laugh about how two women talk about politics. You're not my level, you're my level. Let me just say that I apologize for making you nervous. I didn't know you were so sensitive to criticism. You almost cried. Don't. Brave, hold on, you're in a group of strong politicians who almost came to power. But to tell you the truth, you never said anything ugly about Alexander Vukic, about us from the SNS, about Ivica Dacic, and I can see you can't even mention him when you were head of the parliamentary group. Talk to the secretary general to see if it's true that a congregation driver drove you home every day and brought you home when you came to parliament? So I wouldn't do anything about it, I can see that you're terribly upset and then you're stuttering and you don't know how deep you're going to insult me, but I know I'm telling the truth, and you're just falling and falling away in your defense. It's not a problem when someone gambles, it's a problem when it's being taken out, and you're in that phase of your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50514	According to the amendment, MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. (Diana Vukomanovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Diana Vukomanovic: What can't? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50515	Chairman, this is not okay that you did not give a replica to your colleague Vukomanovic, and x times you gave...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50516	Comrade Sanda, when you run the session, then you'll decide, and now I'll decide, keep up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50517	Let me tell you, this behavior of yours is borderline with violence, but we'll get over it. I would like to speak to the President of Parliament, Mrs. Maji Gojkovic. If someone was humiliating this parliament and doing it systematically, then it's definitely her. If any of this Parliament has made a prosthetic of the executive authority and the prosthetics of a single man, Alexander Vukic, it is her. To remind the MPs, to remind the citizens, that on March 1, 2017, Maja Gojkovic went to the Serbian government to see if the Serbian parliament would meet because, my God, there were presidential elections and she was waiting for Alexander Vukic to tell her if she could, whether she shouldn't. And today, this zero-provoked pause that was an hour and 15 minutes before lunch breaks were common, is actually the result that Maja Gojkovic had to, couldn't cope, she got upset, she let go, her thing got out of control, and then she had to go to Andric's wedding or at least she had one phone consult, so now she let her claws go and sharpened her teeth and then set off here to discipline the opposition. Mrs. Gojkovic, you have greatly humiliated this House. Mrs. Gojkovic, you don't deserve to be president of the Serbian Parliament, president of anything, so run away. And the fact that tweets hurt you, it's white and I'm tweeting now to repeat, to repeat in front of all of Serbia, and it says, my tweet specifically -- that the "Golden Lion" for the peace that Alexander Vucic received might be discussed, but there is really no debate that you should get as Maja Gojkovic, as president of parliament "Golden Lion" for slapping. So much slapping and so much humiliation from someone who's supposed to be second in the state is really beneath each level.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50518	I really apologize to my fellow MPs for the break that started at 1:00 p.m., it's obvious that some MPs have a stomach like babies, so they have to eat in a minute. Right on line, MP for fellow Members Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50519	Well, I'm just going to tell my distinguished colleagues, you know, the smarter he gives.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50520	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50521	I thank the chairman. It is sad for Serbia to hear lessons about political morality by someone who has changed six political parties like Mrs Gojkovic. So, someone who moved from the people's radical party to the SRS, and the People's Party, to the United Regions of Serbia, where I remember from the presidency that Mladjan Dinkic was hugging, spitting on Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, and on to Boris Tadic, who gave her warm support in the presidential elections. Not to mention Vojislav Kostunica and that coalition. So everyone who was at a given moment in power was Mrs Gojkovic's political ideology. Very interesting. And today she teaches lessons to someone else who has gone from power to opposition. Today we are talking about the humiliation of parliament, of honor and morality, of us standing here today on behalf of the humiliated and humiliated Serbia, of which you made a rag, which is why we are standing today. We stand out of protest on behalf of all Serbian citizens you humiliated, humiliated both in this home and those living in Kosovo and pensioners and doctors and teachers and soldiers and farmers. You have impoverished Serbia for seven years with a false moral policy, with stories, lies and fairy tales that you tell seven years to the citizens of Serbia, without a single shred of responsibility for taking it with you at one point. Just pointing a finger at others, that others are guilty of everything, and you who have changed parties by following who is at which point in power, you are appalled by that responsibility. Well, you haven't, far greater guilt been borne by you gentlemen who have been in various authorities since 2000, so now you've flown to SNS, my God, for your political conviction. Especially Mrs Gojkovic, who is now talking about 2012, and until then supported Boris Tadic, was party to Mladjan Dinkic, Vojislav Kostunica and everyone else. That's why today in Serbia is what it is, grief, which is also misery. I hope that Serbia and its citizens will wake up very soon and there will be no place for you to continue to destroy Serbia and the national interests of Serbia, both economically and any others you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50522	Right on the line, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50523	You're all right, you're just hiding something, dear Ambassador Alexic. Well, I met you at Mr. Dinkic's office. You were in the U.R.S. (Miroslav Aleksic: I said so. I've never heard of you before. I met you there and you were part of the URS in 2012, when Mladjan Dinkic supported the government of Aleksandr Vukic and Ivica Dacic. What are you talking about? You've made my day a little better, we've been struggling all day, we're talking some serious things. I met you there. Dinkic introduced us, Verica Kalanovic was in that office. (Miroslav Aleksic: That's right, I'm not ashamed of it. I said that. ) That's right, then you don't tell the citizens of Serbia, but you sell them fog, by me standing behind every day of your life, and you wear your parts of your political career occasionally in dry cleaning. Let me tell you something, that's how I met this young lady who's now in the DS. She was at the same meeting when something was being discussed, in her former party, in LSV. What's she doing in the DS now? Isn't that right, Marinika Tepic? (Marinika Tepic: Replica! Direct address. You were in LSV, so in this meeting, you went to Zivkovic's office, and Jankovic... (Marinika Tepic: You're lying.) What are you nervous about? Everything's fine with me. Serbian citizens know everything. Then Sanda Raskovic Ivic, she entered as first on the list, president of the DSS. Wait, wait, wait. We have a lot to talk about today. Sanda Raskovic Ivić is the first on the DSS list and then she broke up her own parliamentary club, left the two, three of them here, and she suddenly crossed over to Vuk Jeremic. How's that? So they campaigned against Vuk Jeremic, against Gilas. They ran their own politics. Diana Vukomanovic got my cake cream. I know Alexic, you're reacting a little emotionally, and I understand that you're collegiate with your colleague, but Dijana Vukomanovic is a symbol of a flyover. I'm ashamed. She took my wife's title. (Diana Vukomanovic: You are the queen. I don't know what to do anymore, I don't have anywhere to go, she was the third, fourth on the list at the Dacic edge. She said that you were the forces of chaos, the senselessness you represented for her, and she's now the main feather. Wait, who are you really? Who are you? I'm the only one on this side, and you fly all you want. You have taken my title and I suggest we share now, I will share my fleet of flyers with all of you who in this term have changed so many parties and MPs' clubs that I am ashamed. I'm, what would you say in Alan Ford, a mere amateur for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50524	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. Wait, guys, slow down. Take it easy. First, the political history of any MP cannot be a right to replication. You all know you can't hide it. Now, if you call someone a flyer and expect no warning to be given to you, and you're not told a warning, not for a moment, for even one flyer, a poster, which you've already set up, then don't be angry if anyone mentions your political past. What's offensive about that? Someone was an MP in one of the MPs' groups, then in the other, and in the third. You think it's normal. Then you can't blame anyone else for that. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50525	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50526	A colleague of Martinovic's, just to be clear. A colleague, Gojkovic, was granted the right to a replica based on the name mention, and a colleague, Martinovic, based on the mention of the political party. That's right. Ask for the word of a colleague to Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where an MP named Vuk Jeremic said they were standing for the people. No, they stand because they received a warrant to do so today, for December 14th, Kadri Veselje, their political ally, perhaps even a financier, announced the formation of the so-called so-called. Kosovo military. There should be chaos in Serbia. There should be chaos in Serbia at a time when the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija are trying to build an army. This is their political army in Serbia. They serve the enemies of Serbia. That's what Serbian citizens should know. You have always served the enemies of Serbia. Whenever he could serve any enemy of Serbia, you were on the side of the enemy, and today you're on the side of the enemy. Due to the difficult situation in which Serbia is located, the President of the Republic will address Serbian citizens at 18 hours and 15 minutes and say... The MPs speak out loud. That's right, always be on the side of Serbian enemies, that's all you know how to do. Go ahead. Let Serbian citizens see whose side you're on. We're on Alexander Wolfie's side. We are on the side of Serbia, we are on the side of the Serbian people who today are fighting for a naked life in Kosovo and Metohija, and let it serve you the honor to be the political army of Ramush Haradinaj and Kadri Vesenji. You're the same ones who released 2,108 Ship's terrorists in 2001. You let the Mazek brothers go free. You made it possible for the Serbs to slay those who raped Serbs who killed Serbs to be free. You're their political allies. And Ramush Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci have no greater political friends of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50528	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Now because of really... (Marco Djurisic: Replica. ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Rules of Procedure. ) In accordance with Article 112, I am setting a five-minute break, since this is not going anywhere. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. My friend Krlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50530	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I move on to the proposed amendment, I would like to thank and express my admiration to Parliament Speaker Mrs Gojkovic, who has really defended herself in one dignified way, then all of us, and then preserve the dignity of this Parliament, despite the impossible conditions they have tried to impose on her here. I thank Mr. Martinovic, the president of my parliamentary group, for reminding me of the great bishop Petar II Petrovic Njegos, who almost two centuries ago predicted this Alliance for Serbia, this kind of behaviour of the opposition MPs and through the Constitution of the bishop Stefan said in "Gorski Vejevac" famous words, quote: "No one is happy, and no one is calm enough, and no one is calm. All men are confused with man: he looks at himself in the mirror." I don't have a bishop or anything to add or take away. Now I'm moving on to the amendment. They don't have all the countries in the world health insurance necessarily, or social security, and that's the kind of liquid we should be proud of. The development of this insurance, especially the health insurance that I stress in the amendment, is very important for the sake of stability, because it provides security for all citizens. I especially advocate that individuals have a higher level of insurance, as they need it. Obviously, we can see from this today that it is. If someone who has such a significant date, such a big date in our history as joining the Serbian Dukeship of the Kingdom of Serbia calls national savagery, really deserves three degrees of health insurance, because it has entered such a disease that has taken the wave of disproportionate proportions. Fifty years before that, the great Svetozar Miletic proclaimed a political idea that he says – we are Serbs and citizens. She had only one goal, to show that Serbs were ready to fight democratically for their unity, followed by all the nations who were at the time, almost all the peoples who lived with them in Austria. When you call such principles nationalistic savagery, you either hate the state where you live or despise the people you share it with. If this is the official attitude of recycling political waste called the Alliance for Serbia, is poor Serbia with such allies, and health insurance is strengthened and I suggest that it be introduced as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50531	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50532	Just so the citizens can have insight into what's going on here right now. The president of parliament said before her previous address, quotes: "I only reported to piss off people across the street," i.e. We're from the opposition. This really proves one level at which the President of Parliament, and everyone you chair, you address. (Alexander Martinovic: Is this by amendment? Yes, yes, by amendment, of course. Since we see that the previous speakers were the key topic on October 5th and DOS, all those who spoke according to the amendment were talking about this subject, here's just a few data on October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50533	A fellow Milojitsu, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50534	Salary, my dear gentlemen, you left us 30 euros, and we raised them after 5 October to 200. We've returned the old foreign exchange savings, we've returned 13 of the remaining pensions you took from Serbian citizens, we've returned 12 children's allowances, we've returned Telecom, we've returned Serbia's respected citizens, we've returned the country to the United Nations, we've returned visas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50535	You mean you canceled your visas?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50536	Serbian citizens had visas that were lifted after that. Dear friends, we can also talk about 14 billion euros left after us. You owe us 10 billion euros for seven years of your blatant rule. How do you win the election? Ask Daniel Bobic, who you kidnapped in Vorbas...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50537	Please, colleague Milojicic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50538	... Ask Milan Gavrilovic of Mionica, who received three buckles and who broke the arcade, ask Borko Stefanovic how you win the election. You win just as your party has won, on the kidnapping of parliamentary mandates, on lies, on fraud, funded by the largest tycoons in this country. As you've come into existence, you're consistent, you've been implementing that policy for seven years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50539	The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50540	The attackers of Borko Stefanovic have been found and are being prosecuted and as Serbian state authorities see today doing their job effectively, unlike in 2008 when you stepped on the head of Ranko Panic with police boots just because he didn't think the same thing as Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party. In 2000, you did something that no serious government had done. You have accepted that the SRJ is a new state and as a new state has been admitted to the UN, and you have thus waved Serbia-Montenegro with those who have broken down the SFRY and have recognised that the same right to the SFRJ succession has both Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia, as well as Serbia-Montenegro, which defended the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Yugoslavia. That's what your vermin rule did. As for the debts you've paid back, the only debts I've heard of have been paid back is the write-off of the debts of the London and Paris Club, and it was a gift to you from those, thanks to whose help to the political, media, financial, and you came to power. And you came to power by trespassing here on October 5, 2000 into the National Assembly, then the Federal Assembly. It is here to remind the citizens of Serbia of the headquarters of the Federal Election Commission and then to the ground you burned the entire election material. That's also what no victorious power in history has done to win the election and then destroy or burn the proof of its victory. Nobody else did that, the DOS did it on October 5, 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50541	I thank my colleague Martinović. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. ( ) On what basis is Zivkovic a colleague? Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50542	Just because Milojic mentioned me by my personal name and last name, you connected me and October 5th. I don't know what you know, the distinguished colleague of October 5, 2000? I'd just like to ask you when you were born exactly, what year? You were 16 at the time and about October 5th and the events of those days you know, possibly, if the older ones in the family told you this as a bedtime fairy tale. So you're talking about October 5th because you were 16, you were sitting in Smederjevska Palanca, Belgrade didn't see you. You can't even pretend to be in that fog, that smoke you were one of them. You're not. It's amnesty. So we're not looking for pictures and furniture at your place. That's what we ask of those other older, more serious ones by giving them the results on October 5th, and you give us the pictures and the furniture back. That's where we agreed. Let me tell you this analogy that you're making someone who makes today the ruling majority, beats people, kills people, and I don't know what, that's what it says about your great political ignorance. That analogy you're making, you're doing it to harm the DS on October 5th, which you don't know anything about, because then it turns out that DOS fins were involved in kidnapping all those people whose criminals asked for a ransom later or at least they got a blessing, that's your analogy. So, at the time, Miskovic was kidnapped, and great money was asked for his ransom, a child from Boba Zivojinovic. So according to your analogy, it's DOS, so Milija Babovic was kidnapped at the time, so that's the result of October 5th, because you're pulling the analogy that regimes are guilty when someone gets kidnapped, when someone's beaten, etc. So, an esteemed colleague of what you've said saves you from life's inexperience and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50543	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50544	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I have already warned you that there is little order here and that we will not suffer insults. I can't take any more insults. I can't stand the insult of someone saying we don't have the courage, like Ljotic or Ljutic there. He only has the courage to beat women. So that's the kind of courage I really don't have. I can't take it anymore if someone's saying we stole the pensioners. We didn't steal the pensioners, we didn't fire 400,000 people, they fired 400,000 people, they put 400,000 people on the expenditure side. I can't stand any more people who insult us about the sovereignty of the country, people who left a broken plane and a well-armed army. I can't listen anymore about the beating, and in 2008, as a candidate, I was brutally beaten with journalist Sarap, who was then in the city house, or "Study B", was a journalist, in the presidential elections I was brutally beaten. The police are no longer covering up the attackers. Now he discovers them. The police are no longer on the side of the attackers, I mean on the side of the attacked, and I can no longer listen to that kind of attack. I can't hear more about Thaci and Haradinaj, so they're worse than Thaci and Haradinaj. Thaci and Haradinaj did not release 2,108 Albanian terrorists, they did not release those who were extracting organs from Serbs, these same people blew up a bus in Podujevo, killed 12 people. These same people killed the children on Bistrica, in Gorazdevec. Those same people they let go, those same people killed Oliver Ivanovic. It's their fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50545	Do you want the Parliament to declare in the matter of the Rules of Procedure's injury in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) According to the amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50546	I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50547	All right, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50548	Thank you. Since they like to evacuate memories of these all successful exes, and in fact all the francles and grills of DS, are now slightly strengthened for those of Ljotic people whose supervisions have accepted them. So once again, they forgot, so to remind themselves, this is their picture and opportunity. This is their mirror. This is their co-ordinator, Dragan Gilas, told them about them on October 5th. So, to read, to be better heard and better understood, US SKOJ, Bosko Obradovic told all of them so well gathered on this crowd that American SKOJ, then under the company "Resist", and today, seems not very far from this. Isn't that right, sir, coordinator? What does Dragan Gilas say? Are you all American SCOY together today? So on October 5th they were this, and today 2018 seems nothing much better than that. Where they were about the previous government, so, in the '90s. Here, says the president, the current president, although he is not asking questions there, DS, Zoran Lutovac, in a beautiful book "Political Party in Serbia". A man wrote, therefore, by the president of the DS, that in the early 1990s DS in its programme advocated a project to establish Greater Serbia. Congratulations on that, too, probably brought them together today with the coordinator and Gilas. And they pawned the sayings for all Serbs and one state, which meant therefore the price of wars, and that was totally fine at the time, because it represented political meinstrem. And what does the coordinator say about where they were in the '90s? Here, right now for your current boss, for Gilas Dragan. He says, the coordinator in one fantastic text that quotes folk hits because they're best understood. He says that Dragan Gilas started his business in the 1990s when it was possible only if you were a good friend and a faithful associate of the regime at the time. Is that what happened? Now they seem to have forgotten it a little bit. But if they forgot where he was, for example, Jeremic, there are now those people that Jeremic bought.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50549	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50550	The last sentence, which they sold to him well and who certainly shared their own intimacy with him, thus learning his own, Jeremic was then a member of the ruling party. Well, when a man looks at them like this all together and on a crowd, I have to ask the question, is the reason why Gilas was watching party ratings or Pacolli was angry because 11 withdrawals came into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50551	...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50552	Thank you, Chairman. He's a injured member of the 27th and he's constantly breaking up all day today. I can understand that you, and those who previously chaired you, do not want to fall into a trap and trap, which the gentlemen were given homework to set today, but really should remind the distinguished colleagues that today is December 3, 2018, that this is not October 5, 2000, that the behaviour of October 2000 will never have a chance to repeat. He made a mistake that Mr Milosevic allowed himself, which is that at all costs he does not defend the democratic rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and ensure that no other authority, nor will he ever make such a mistake again. The pack and hordes that come from the street, when they eat the bones they buried in their backyards, vineyards, broken homes of JNA, when they were eaten, then again, as a pack of hyenas, now not as a pack of dogs, but as a pack of hyenas to invent the street again on October 5th, and today it's December 3, 2018, that again these holes, which have been filled with pruning, somehow complemented, to survive a little again. They are not fed enough that money was given to them by these outside sponsors, from Qatar, from these famous beautiful countries, which are not funded by Islamic terrorism, but seems to have to return again, to rise to the Serbian budget, on the coat of arms of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to re-sell tanks and planes for a commission of thousands and two thousand euros, at a price lower than a kilo of scrap metal. (President: Bring the end, colleague. ) Therefore, I ask you to finally start applying the Rules of Procedure today or interrupt this session, because this absolutely makes no sense anymore. The patient gave in. We've been here all day taking even tranquilizers so that we don't have this kind of education, insolence and lies. The end is simple, all of it. Explain to them that long ago, they spent all those criminal ways that the authorities got their hands on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50553	Thank you. He just sent a colleague to Komlenski, to interrupt the session because of these not very pleasant situations, but it is an integral part of Parliament's life. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Jorge Komlenski: No. ) According to the amendment, Parliamentarian Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50554	I'll get the amendment, of course, like the other colleagues. Here, they say again. Well, yeah, because apparently today's discussion of many passions awakened with members of the Alliance for Serbia, so they continued, encouraged by your hatred of today, to tweet everything and everything. I will now address Marinika Tepic, and Dijani Vukomanovic, and Sandy Raskovic Ivić, and Maja Vidinovic, and Marija Janjusevic and those women who still have a delusion about the Alliance for Serbia and their programme on women's equality and the fight against violence against women. I'm sure you'll be interested, because you're a great advocate of fighting violence against women and women's equality in politics. So, Sergei Trifunovic, your candidate for the Minister of Culture, someone I really consider, despite what he's written now, is a good actor, but apparently the average pair of excellencies, a couple of excellencies like Serbia, and the political life of this country hasn't lived long ago. He can still act, I'll go to the theater to watch him, but I'll be really worried about his bipolar disorder, I have a program that I'm mentally propagating here about mental health. I will read to you, dear colleagues, and I hope you will have a lot of justification for what Sergei Trifunovic wrote as a member of the Alliance for Serbia. He's not an actor here. You don't say what. I'll read it to you now, just to find it. Like, how he reacted to my discussion that I didn't give him my phone number and I'm not available. He's talking to me. I'm not on social networks, by the way. He says, "No, you fuck"... The moment is just, it's not easy to read, but with pleasure, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, of this civic option, which you so warmly represent here, I want to read, no matter how this sounds. "It is not, fuxo, the point of availability, but that you have "many" done for the children of Serbia", under quotes, "prevented Alexa's law, Tijana's law, obstructed that children are being treated abroad, that taxes from games to treat children... “ Well, ” he says, “and so on. Being stupid, it's forgiven, you'd just be better off being stupid at home." Do you want me to repeat, dear colleague? This is a symbol of your movement. After Zeljko Vesenovic, who proposed also through social networks as a very powerful media, to rape Ana Brnabic, the president of the Serbian government, and to see this, your culture minister Sergei Trifunovic tweets all proud here and I expect that he will continue after this – he is not, fuxo, the point in availability... (Dusan Petrovic: She replicates Sergei Trifunovic? ) ) Is that a comment from a respected colleague who still represents fine citizens in Capco? It's a shame, really. The only thing that bothered him was what I read, and it didn't bother him that Sergei Trifunović wrote "fuxo" for a woman who deals with politics? You don't mind? (Dusan Petrovic: Here, give me a word to answer. ) Put him on the list, as you will put him, to enter the Serbian parliament here and then to have a woman who deals with 28 years of politics answer his position on my discussion that I am a fuck-up. Put him on the list and I'll answer him. Don't defend him, Ambassador Petrovic... (Dusan Petrovic: Replica! )......................................................................................................... Because everything you have to say in the part of the program about women is killed by your coordinators, the other day, Veselinovic raped Anna Brnabić, and now Sergei Trifunovic on my discussion to say that I am a fuck-up and that I am stupid. I thank all women in the Alliance for Serbia for supporting Sergey Trifunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50555	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) (Goran Ćirić: Hurt of the Rules of Procedure! ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) (Dusan Petrovic: Look at this side! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where we were asked a question... In fact, we were told whenever we mentioned... (Radoslav Milojic: Arsic, do you see me looking for a word? ) (Bosko Obradović: Replica! ) You have to understand them, Mr. Risticevic, the meter is running, the money is paid and the money has to be justified in some way, and the meter works from 10.00 this morning. We are told here to ask, allegedly, those of us who have forgotten, which were all liquids on October 5, 2000 and to ask what good this new government has done for Serbia and, behold, I would now like to ask Bosko Buha, the DOS police general after 5 October 2000, but I can't, they killed him. I'd like to ask Momir Gavrilovic, called Gavr, about DOS crime after 5 October 2000, but I can't, they killed them. I'd like to ask high-ranking police officer Nenad Batchanin... (Dijana Vukomanovic: Oliver Ivanovic) ) (Bosko Obradović: Oliver Ivanovic! )......................................................................................................... about DOS crime after October 5, 2000, but I can't, they killed him. As you can see, they killed everyone who witnessed it. They know what I'm talking about. They killed all those who had information about how they came to power and what they were doing when they took power on October 5, 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50557	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50558	They did the same thing that Ramush Haradinaj did. They killed all the witnesses of their crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50559	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Bosko Obradović: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic): What does this look like? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50560	Article 104. And in the '90s, according to my own confession, those who today are just remains of remains, poor remains, I must note, the Democratic Parties...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50561	Guys, it's in the Rules of Procedure, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50562	... They became a yellow company.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50563	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50564	I'll wait, Mr. Chairman, and you make it up to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50565	Wait for your colleagues. (Balsa Bozovic; I have been holding the Rules of Procedure for half an hour. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50566	So, in the '90s, they've defined themselves to be without money for them... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50567	Comrade Eagle, just to give you your time, ask for your word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50568	Thanks again. So, in the 1990s that they mentioned, relating to Article 104, once again, the then Democratic Party has become, by its own recognition, a yellow company. And it's not the first time they've concluded, this year, that that money is the most important thing they're interested in and that there's no story of values. But this year it's kind of particularly interesting and impressive. Remember, maybe February of this year? Some members of the Democratic Party clashed somewhere under the Student Park, and here I see Balsa Bozovic is present here among them, on the one hand and on the other, the ones you recognize in the photo. That's when it came out in one of their magazines, under the title – I'm fascist, that's what I admire. On the other hand, they hold high-rights and welcome Balša Bozovic, who is at war with them on the street. These, and Božovic remembers it well, they sang to him and the others, as it was; he will judge you, and you will be judged by the youth of the Assembly. Is that what happened? A few months later, Balsa Bozovic stands side by side with Obradovic and other members of the Youth of Zbor, so people who wrote that the Assembly is a wonderful organization, that Dimitrije LJotic is a great hero and a great thinker, and here's what Balša Bozovic and others talked about on October 5th 2000. And it's not their first salto mortal. If they were interested in money most, they'd admit it themselves. Here, for example, just this August, the president of the municipal board of DS in Ruma, a man named Nenad Borovic, talks about how all of them are most interested in money together and says: "All those who have concluded harmful contracts by the Democratic Party, should be able to make money through 13% green interest on the annual level of overflows into Gilas' pockets. “ Now everyone is along with that Gilas. So, Obradovic, who spoke of him all the worst six months ago, as well as those he robbed. So everyone together thinks Gilas is a robber. What else do they say? They say - Gilas and Pitiæ are lopurde. So they think they're lopurds, but they team up together and about it. They brought themselves into debt slavery, signed a harmful contract with Gilas's firm. There is, and this is what I end up with, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen as long as you want. But as long as they are together, and we know that they are most interested in this, I have to go back to the basic question – what made them stand up today? Which Gilas, who pays them all, is watching the ratings so he's not happy, or Pacolli who may have been here, pays the same thing and pays someone here, is not happy about the 11th withdrawal of independence recognition so-called. Kosovo? (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50569	Thank you, colleague Orlic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. (Radoslav Milojic): What does this look like? Shame on you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 106(2). This is why I advertise, listen to these sighs of dissatisfaction, this banging. (Balsa Bozovic, Bosko Obradovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Marija Janjusevic, Stefana Miladanovic, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are hitting on parliamentary benches in protest. Listen to this. Here, they turn their backs on me. I can't turn my back on them. I can't turn my back on them. You never know them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they can't interfere with me, but this is a beast.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50571	My colleague Bozovic, I see you, the others don't, I give you a warning. You hear, you hear great. [[Balsa Bozovic: I can't hear you.]] You're gonna have to bang until...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50572	Tough feet under a crazy head.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50573	Comrade Rističević, let them go, their hands will be sore. I'll give you your time back. Now ask again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honourable citizens, now you see, now you hear, of course, I expect the RTS to convey it faithfully, now you hear why I'm advertising Rules of Procedure Article 106, paragraph 2. So, during the speech of the MPs of the people, as I am now saying, it is forbidden to throw away. I have a certain kind of tolerance for them... (Bosko Obradović: Thieves. Thieves. But...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50575	My colleague Rističević...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50576	I think they've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50577	Hold on, please. Now go on. (Zoran Zivkovic: This guy's fucking with him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50578	They can't distract me that easily. So, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, I speak to you, Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50579	I give my warning to my colleague, Sandy Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50580	Serbia cannot be brought down from the outside unless such unfortunate people appear, I will not tell the traitors. I'll say if these unfortunate people show up, Serbia can't collapse if they don't show up to help from the inside. So, the thing is clear, more than clear, and they say and ask us what Haradinaj is to us, what is happier, what Thaci has told us. He told us he was grateful for this group over, that he was grateful for this alliance of thieves, frauds, frauds and Ljotics. He's grateful that they've teamed up, that they want to help. They want to bring down Serbia. Progress occurs when skilled leaders recognize a chance and make some progress, but that progress also does not match those on the outside. That's why they found these unfortunate insiders to help them try to stop that progress, to bring Serbia back, as they did in the past decade, as they brought out 54 billion, as they are now savage, savaged over the register, savaged over Serbian citizens. They robbed, fired, disarmed, decapitated, destroyed the Serbian state's reputation and now it bothers Serbia. They don't mind this power, they're bothered by Serbia. They want Serbia to turn its hostage into a mockery of it, wants to be thoroughly robbed as they have done so far. They want a rich Gilas once more to get rich. They want to steal 500m euros again. They want these poor people, Ljotics, who raised three fingers like this, now they want it like this. He bought 'em, bought 'em DS, bought 'em yellow Dwarry. (Marinika Tepic: Time.) Time. That's them. This is us. We want progress, they want back. You will not bring Serbia back, gentlemen. You're just a handful of misery. You are a disgrace and a disgrace that ruled for 12 years in Serbia, 16 years in the province. You're a disgrace and a shame and citizens know it and you'll end up being a disgrace and a shame. (Bosko Obradovic: Sit down, thief.) ) (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-03-0.u50581	Wait a minute, first I'll talk to my colleague, Marijan Rističević. He spoke for four minutes because you interrupted him, interrupted him. I was trying to hear it. For some time, I would like to discuss with my colleague Zoran Zivkovic's law that all MPs have a mandatory medical examination. I don't know how many of them there would be today, after how many they could go through and become MPs. Concerned about the property of the National Assembly and the health of my fellow MPs from the former regime, I now set a break and continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. (Marco Djurisic: Cowards.) Shame on you. Coward. ) [[Session interrupted at 18.10 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
