ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37245	Thank you. I have two questions, relatively short, and they're not common. I usually ask something about Kosovo, foreign policy, state policy and so forth, and now I would have two very specific questions from so-called. A simple life. The first question goes to the Ministry of Culture, for the Minister of Culture, which is information, that is, I would like to ask for information on how much public money, how much funds from public sources have gone to date, or given to "Zillion Film", or Mr. Lazar Ristovski for the production of his film? And, with that in mind, is it true, and I have the information that it is, is it true that at this point in Serbia's municipalities, cities and municipalities in Serbia are getting messages, or letters with recommendations to buy movie tickets in advance, on an unseen basis, meaning, in their places to buy tickets for a movie that hasn't even been finished, let alone someone's seen it, or broadcast it, or got good reviews. This little, little bit, reminds us of the project of state cultural projects, as we remember from the past, which, not entering, of course, into the artistic qualities of this or some other work, aside from what it is not clear what Mr. Ristovski recommends to make a film with this topic, which he hasn't dealt with in his whole life, there is doubt that some other merits, or political engagement and support to one presidential candidate, have led to his film being treated as some kind of state project. However, a few years ago it was also a support to some other president candidate, but now it doesn't matter. The joke aside, if it's a joke at all, and the major controversy in the public has caused the series "Namnjiqi", which has been broadcast at the Public Service. There were a lot of relevant and probably a little too harsh criticism, but I say again, not entering the artistic domains of the series about "Nemniæi", it was quite clear and painfully obvious how modest it was, not to say the poor, production was this series about our famous and first dynasty. Practically, people who understand it say that this series is recorded with the means by which a mediocre film is made. I mean, no matter what good it is to make movies with national topics, whether it's older history or more recent history, and that we're missing, there's still some selection to be made. If this selection is being made, I think we should invest seriously or mention the series, or not to mention the film or the Jasenovac series, or some other topics that have been discussed for years, which are not being realized. So, I ask the Ministry to instruct specific information on the funds, and especially on whether it is true that they are now in an unprecedented need, i.e. sending requests to citizens in Serbia, that in some way in the subscription, or in advance, they are buying tickets to a film that is not yet finished, the question whether they will. All together, I have an impression and I fear it will be the most expensive stockings in Serbian history, or at least in the history of Serbian cinematography. The second question goes to the MUP and more is one explanation that I expect, i.e. I perceive that there is a tendency quite already visible and worrying tendency, that such an important resort, such an important ministry proposes measures under-thinking and then very quickly withdraws them. Of course, it's an important and cultural policy, and it's important films about our further and closer past, but it's still about a small number of people, it's about cultural policy and national identity in one deeper sense, but measures like a technical examination for vehicles over 15 years of age, or measures such as this increase in speed, or within a month of determining that the maximum speed on the highway is 120, so moving to 130, or this average speed on the highway where it is then recorded, so anyone who oversteps that average speed is automatically punished, so that's the measure that, however, doesn't formally withdraw as this one has withdrawn from the mandatory technical review, but it literally pulls back...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37246	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37247	So, it's unserious and it's an entire game-playing process with the citizens' budget and a blow to the citizens' pocket when they rebel.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37248	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37249	Thank you. I would like to ask the question today about all of us here in Serbia, since we all know that Serbia needs birth, and our President, Mr. Vukic, has also suggested the adoption of a law that will stimulate birth in Serbia. I would ask the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry led by Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic – when the law will enter and when it will come here to the Assembly, what our President Vukic said, that every child born in the next period has 100,000 dinars, that every other child born in Serbia has two years of 10,000 dinars, that every third child born in Serbia has the right to 10,000 dinars in the next 12 years and every fourth child in Serbia to have 10,000 dinars for the next 18 years. This is something that is very important to all of us, because Serbia really needs help with birth. Here, I come from the municipality that is the most demographically endangered in Serbia, from the municipality, where there are many more people who die, and many fewer are born. So, I'm sure with this kind of approach, by passing this law, we'll really have the opportunity to ensure and stimulate the birth of our children, to stop the loss in those parts of our region in southeastern Serbia and throughout Serbia. I think in this way and we're really going to provide a better life for all those people out there who want to give birth, to create. By proposing that, when this law is passed, I would suggest that a difference be made for those children born in rural areas, for those children born in our villages in southeastern Serbia, in mountainous and mountainous areas, that children be 50% higher compensation, or their parents, because in this way we will have the opportunity to support our villages and give birth to our villages. At the same time, today I'd like to ask Prof. Slavica Djukić Dejanović – will July 1st start with a law that helps our women living in the country, who pay their agricultural pension, to pay them the right to maternity leave, that is to say, a special fee for these women? I really think that we really need to put a great accent on our women living in the country, to provide them with the possibility that other than what they do there, they should have the right to a normal life like women in the city. This law and this decision that a woman in the country has the right for the first time to receive birth benefits will be really good for our women, with what I think we really need to provide in the coming period more funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. As president of the Municipality of Svrlig since 2011, at the initiative of the United Peasant Party, whose president I am, we have decided that every child born in Svrlig, every couple who creates a marriage community has 200,000 dinars, and in the villages of a married couple, when they create a union, has 350,000 dinars, each newborn child born in Svrlig has 5,000 dinars for the next year and a single 30,000 dinars, while every child born in our villages has 50% higher and 7,500 for the next year. I think it's an example of good practice, and I'm sure by passing this birth-stimulating law, we'll help our women in the country, and I'd like to invite fellow MPs and those who will propose the law to make a difference for children living in the country and to provide them 50% more compensation and their parents 50% more compensation to keep their parents alive, children to stay alive. It's the only way to save southeastern Serbia and Serbian border areas, because really, believe me, people, it's very difficult. There's no ambulance, there's no boarding school for municipalities that have less than 20,000 dinars. This is one way for all of us together and our government, and especially our president who has potentiated this law, especially our president, who is stimulating and demanding that as many companies as possible be opened in our areas as possible, such as Svreljig and Bela Palanka. I would take the opportunity, if you don't mind, to congratulate the glory of St. Cyril and Methodius and congratulate everyone today - the day of the Slovenian language. I expect great support from all of you for what I'm saying, because support for all of agriculture is support for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37250	Thanks, buddy. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic - when will she propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to replace Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure Zorana Mihajlovic? Ana Brnabic could see in the past days that Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic did not respect the democratic will of Serbian citizens, nor parliamentary democracy, and that during the concrete and direct questions of the SRS MPs she ignored all our objections to the laws she explained on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and her impudence and haughtiness was long known to Mrs. Brnabic. It was also at public gatherings, at which the Prime Minister spoke, made a face, disdain for everything she did not like, and such bold behaviour continued in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, not only that, it also entered into personal debates that had nothing to do with the proposed laws on which amendments will be held today and voted with the MPs. We, and this is very important for Mrs Brnabic, back in 2016, through parliamentary issues which were addressed in written form to the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic, specifically those questions were referred by Radical MP Petar Jojic, asking for the minister's responsibility. In November 2016, and later I will continue with other very bad answers, inadequately, to distract the public and MPs, so we have specifically sought responsibility and I am now asking on behalf of the SRS MPs that Zorana Mihajlovic, among other things, is being replaced by the fact that she has not protected the interests of more than 33,000 Serbian citizens. Thirty-three thousand Serbian citizens have appealed to the construction ministry, run by Zoran Mihajlovic, as a second-degree body, for the work of the Catastrian Administration across Serbia in various cities. These people, Serbian citizens today, still have unresolved issues in the property-legal sense, because the catastre and the Republic Geodetic Institute, which were directly subordinated to Zorani Mihajlovic, did not do their job, but it would not be all, but rather the fact that Zorana Mihajlovic, as she has admitted in one part of the debate of the assembly during the past days, held 26,000 cases in her ministry's second-degree complaint procedure for Serbian citizens. Only when we pressured her to answer those questions with our arguments, did she say that the experts paid by the World Bank, 18, were hired to resolve these issues. That's a lie, because their engagement didn't lead to a solution to these questions at all. Namely, only 1/5 of the total number of complaints has been resolved with great dissatisfaction and with the inexplicable, irreparable consequences for the Serbian citizens who today because of such behaviours by Zorana Mihajlovic and her authorities that she manages within her ministry cannot resolve their property-legal issues. Furthermore, on specific questions, you know that, Mr Arsic, and Mrs Brnabic knows in particular, that this is also the basis for the criminal prosecution of Zorana Mihajlović of the unconscious performance of the minister who is required under the law and the retention of these cases. Another problem has been the issue of infrastructure in some parts of Serbia that has not been able to solve. We are witnesses, all the media wrote a few days ago that she was unable to complete the project of building Corridor 10 at the head of this ministry. In a year's time, a part of the Corridor collapsed between Predean and Jeopardy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37252	Bring the end, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37253	Such writings of domestic media and complaints of citizens who were very unpleasantly surprised by the way the works were done, the response from the Ministry and the Administration of Corridors is that it was... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37254	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I'm finishing up. Just give me 30 more seconds. I can't, co-worker, and I've been shutting down my other colleagues for five and a half minutes. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Let me finish. I'm sorry. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37255	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, today I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Environmental Protection, Mr Goran Trivan. The fact is that environmental protection is one of the priorities of this government's policy, as shown by the creation of a special ministry that will deal exclusively with this problem in a comprehensive, responsible and competent way. For the past year, that's what's happened. The activities of the ministry and Minister Trivan contribute to making the environmental segment more visible and openly talking about serious problems and how to solve them. We are witnessing that over the past year, many questions have been raised that have not been mentioned before: from the issue of detecting illegally stored hazardous waste and its disposal, through the formation of a national body for testing the consequences of NATO bombing Serbia by human health and the environment, to a significant increase in nature's protection area. Also, Serbia's voice in the international arena in the area of environmental protection is increasingly heard. All of this is necessary, otherwise we would leave our descendants with unsolvable agents and a living environment in which they cannot live. Serbia has also made commitments towards the EU in the context of joining the organisation. It is about Chapter 27, which refers to the environment and climate change. This chapter is very complex, therefore expensive to meet standards. At the same time, however, it also allows application for significant funds from EU pre-accession funds. How did Minister Trivan say that the draft for the negotiating position for Chapter 27 is under way and that in a few weeks this draft will be completed, which means that very soon we can expect to open Chapter 27, I want to ask Minister Trivana the question – at which stage are the draft negotiating position, which all formal assumptions must be fulfilled in order for Chapter 27 to be opened and when its opening is expected? Also, in the context of this negotiating position, Serbia will have to realise a number of infrastructure projects, including numerous water purifiers. As I come from Vrbasa, which is part of a purifier-building project called "The Great Back channel" financed by EU funds, I would ask the minister how far it has come with the realisation of this project, since the central wastewater processing facility, the EU has singled out 15 million dinars for it. The local self-government formed a joint venture with the municipality of Kula, "Vrbas Kula Pre purifier", the AP Vojvodina singled out funds for the construction of the access road and singled out 50 million dinars for the sewerage network in populated areas. Since there is a sewerage network in the city itself, almost 99%, when it comes to sewage networks in populated areas, it is only 30%. There are three and a half million euros missing to complete the sewerage network. For this reason, I ask the question can we, as we have so far, count on the support of the state, since it is necessary for this project to have the capacity of 150,000 inhabitants and we need help and states, apart from what has been singled out by the EU and the Government of the AP Vojvodina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37256	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37257	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, below my parliamentary question on Tuesday, May 15th of this year, and regarding the theft of gold in RTB Bor, I refer a new issue to Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic: Can it be brought into contact with the period from 2015 to today, which I cited in the previous issue, which shows a lack of certain amounts of gold, with the period since the start of RTB Bor co-operation with the company Red Metal, whose representative is Mr Milan Popovic, as the only partner in the business of the service processing of the imported copper concentrate in that period? In this regard, is it true that in all the contracts concluded by RTB Bor with the company Red Metal alone, the only one in the operations of the service processing of copper concentrate in that disputed period was not intended to exchange chemical analysis of the content of copper, gold and silver between RTB Bor as processors and Red Metal as suppliers of raw materials? Namely, the contract specified that chemical analyses of copper, gold and silver content in copper concentrates, which are usefully processed in the form of a binding chemical analysis of the control house, which, for this purpose, has been generously paid by the company Red Metal, only exposes RTB Bora to knowledge and for final application in the final calculation of the quantity of copper, gold and silver, which is supplied after processing to Red Metal. Such a way of doing business is the most severe violation of international standards, opening doors wide for theft and corruption of the highest degree. Are the additional to such a harmful clause agreed and inappropriately low costs of melting and refining, all to the detriment of RTB Bor as a processor? In 2015, just two months after the signing of the contract with Red Metal, did Bor, for the sake of his own justification for the unfavourable processing costs, order from Maneks DOO and Mr Dragoljub Zzlijic, an offer for the processing of copper concentrates with poor financial conditions, in order to make a good deal compared to the contracted conditions with Red Metal? So, just rudely stating some particularly bad details regarding the RTB Bor business arrangement and Red Metals, my general question is – does Serbia have the strength to finally examine the quality of the contracts signed by RTB Bor, i.e. "Topionica" and "Rafination" DOO with Red Metal company from 2015 to today? These contracts are generators of far greater damage than that caused by the theft of gold, published two weeks ago, although it should not be reduced. It is well suspected that the whole gold theft story was created and placed in the public as an excellent front for all the theft created by the signing of such harmful contracts for the processing of copper concentrates with the company Red Metal. How significant was RTB Bor's partner, and especially his CEO, from several versions of the 2015 contract, which provided for the clause under which "Red Metal" had been amended, if Blagoja Spaskovski was changed, could, without any explanation, break the contract with RTB Bor. Such humiliation by RTB Bor is unremembered in its decades-old business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37258	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37259	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, my first question for the day goes to the Minister for Environmental Protection and reads: Is it true that in Panchev, the company Promist, without the permission of city, republican competent institutions, there are 36,000 tons of artificial fertilizer, based on nitrate ammonium? Is it true that the lagering of such dangerous substances is not allowed in populated areas, especially in the immediate vicinity of residential blocks, swimming pools, schools and kindergartens, as is the case in Panchev? Will an investigation be launched who did not do his job and thus exposed the unnecessary and dangerous risk to the citizens of Panchev? The second issue goes to justice ministers, businesses and defences, and it concerns a case a few days ago, when public executioners set out to take away the property of a cutting tool factory in Cacca. Namely, everything on behalf of the supposedly new owner of a part of the plant's drive. What is particularly important here is that despite several letters from the Ministry of Defence that it is a plant of vital importance for the country's defence security and in the system of the dedicated industry, however, the Chapanese Court has deafened and sold this part of the cutting tool factory, which is illegal and against the country's interest, since the law does not allow any judicial claims when it comes to factories in the field of the dedicated industry. So, will 500 workers of the cutting tool factory lose their jobs in the time of the big job story of employment in Cačka and throughout Serbia? The third question goes to the Minister of Telecommunications, as well as the Minister of Culture and Information, which is possible for four days now that they cannot schedule a meeting with Maja Pavlovic, the owner of the Novi Sad Channel 9, who strikes hunger all these days, because the K9 TV signal from Novi Sad has been turned off, almost rare and the only new Sad and wider TV seen in Vojvodina, where a different opinion and voice of the opposition can be heard in general. When will she get a chance to talk to the competent resolution ministers and resolve what she owes the state and what does the state owe her, as well as numerous other local media in Serbia that are under huge pressure from this government? Another such case in the King, where the SNS authorities gave 80 times more funds from the budget to TV near SNS than other royal televisions, eight million dinars for one television and 100 thousand dinars for other televisions. That is why every Wednesday in the King, citizens are in protest, against this blatant and corrupt SNS government, which shares the citizens' money not only unintendedly when it comes to media, but also when it comes to sports associations, associations of citizens, etc. And finally, a question for the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly -- when will the agenda of the National Assembly finally come to the agenda of Kosovo and Metohija, which is otherwise discussed by the entire world, and also by the UN Security Council every three months, but, behold, in two years' time, this new one is called together to no one in the festival of Kosovo and Metohija? What is currently being discussed and who is being negotiated by the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic? Whose mandate did he get to negotiate Kosovo and Metohija? When did we discuss this here? Are these negotiations outside the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and outside Resolution 1244? And how we actually happened to have contradictory statements by leading state officials today, some say we will never recognise Kosovo's independence, and others say we must sign a legally binding agreement with the fake state of Kosovo because it is a condition for Serbia's entry into the EU. Are you gentlemen aware that when you meet this condition and give up Kosovo and Metohija for Serbia's EU accession, the next day you will get a new condition and a new blackmail from the EU? What is the fact that for years back, the state of Serbia has denied its state institutions in Kosovo and Metohija and that there is an increasing fear among the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija and the feeling that the state has abandoned them. What here is a key responsibility, it is the responsibility of the president of the state who has decided to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue alone, which is inadmissible. In this sense, I warn Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic that he will be the source of conflict and conflict within this society if he thinks he is solving the KIM issue himself and that he asks nothing of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I think the time has come for this topic to be found on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37260	Do any of the other authorised representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, report to the floor? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37261	I thank the chairman. What this great KIM fighter is saying, all you had to do was ask him how many votes, by the way, got on KIM. Let's move on to the parliamentary question. A few days ago, I received an answer to a asked parliamentary question from the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, and in connection with numerous affairs rocking the Paracino municipality. The answer states that the Ministry, as a state administration authority, does not have direct jurisdiction over my issues, and they continue to refer me to the MUP. I am also referring to the question of the MUP today – are they familiar with the huge affairs that occurred in most of the media, which rock the Paracino municipality? It is various affairs, in which the Paracino municipality's budget has been damaged, and consequently the citizens of Paracino in millions of amounts, huge amounts, and the participants of these affairs are heads of the Paracino municipality led by the president of Paracino Sas Paunovic municipality and others, i.e. the rest of the DS summit and other satellites supporting DS authorities in the municipality. So it's about conflicts of interest, proven conflicts of interest in which almost all or at least most municipal officials are in order, and then setting up jobs for private firms owned by these very managers in the municipality, then different abuses of positions, which we've already talked about at several sessions, and justifiable suspicions that there's a trade in influence. Every time we think nothing can surprise us anymore, when it comes to pests that run the Paracino community, they try to deny us and not to. The latest in a series of cases of this kind was published a few days ago, when it came out that they spent 100 million dinars on so-called. Lysing workers. In their own kind, very creative interpretation of the law, they employed hundreds of workers there by this model, so-called. The workman's lising to bypass the government's employment regulation of the Republic of Serbia. Now there are a number of questions, many questions to be answered. If we know that some public utility companies from Paracino, such as JP "Vovod", such as the JKP "Paracin", have rented workers from the Parisian municipality's secretary, a certain Maja Rakic, then this also leads us to the idea that this is also a practice in other public utility companies in Paracino. So we have every reasonable doubt that this is the model by which they function. So that raises questions, how many people did they hire this way for that kind of money, for hundreds of millions of dinars? How many workers is that? Then what kind of business are these? What are the salaries of the workers? Finally, who controls whether these people work at all, whether they show up at work, or whether they're fictitious contracts that we suspect? A hundred million dinars, how many workers? These are very important questions that Paunovic must answer, because, as I said, there is a high probability and reasonable doubt because we know who we are dealing with, that it is a huge robbery of the Paracino municipality's budget. The conclusion of this sad story is wherever the DS has exercised or exercised power, the result is the same. An affair, a desolation of the budget, abuse of position, wealth of individuals and poverty of citizens. It's the only common denominator of all yellow vermin wherever they rule. Is that Gilas in Belgrade, who left over a billion euros in debt? Is that Kuzmanovic on Vrakar, who left 780 million dinars minus losses? Is that Kena in Smederevska Palanca, who left four billion dinar debts, in conclusion with this Parisian despot as the citizens of Paracini call it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37262	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next Messengers. There's no notice. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 8th item of the agenda – the proposal for a safety law in railway traffic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the occasion of a search in particular on points 8 to 13 of the agenda, all representatives of the Government are invited to attend. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The amendment can't be debated and it's not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Seselj submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Katarina Rakic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic has submitted to the title above Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 11th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 14th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 19th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 27th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 28th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 31st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 33rd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 35th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 38th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 39th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 41st Amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 42nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 43rd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 44th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 45th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 46th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 47th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 48th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 49th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 50th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 51st Amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 52nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 53rd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The members of the 54th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 55th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 56th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 57th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 58th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 59th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 60th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 61st Amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 62nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 64th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 65th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 66th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 67th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 68th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Katarina Rakic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 71st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Katarina Rakic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 72nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 83 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 95th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 106 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 108th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 115 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 116 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 117 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 118 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 120 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 123 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 125th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 125th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 126 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 127 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Katarina Rakić, Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 128 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 129 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 130 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 131 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 134 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Interoperability of the Railway System You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the 40th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the CENTRAL Evidence of REAL Owners You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Verica Radeta and MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Nikola Savic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Sreto Peric and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Belačić and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Petar Jojic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Miljan Damjanovic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Dubravko Bojic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Momcilo Mandic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Bozidar Delic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Despotovic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Tomislav LJubenović and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Miljana Mihajlovic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marina Ristic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Intermediation, Transport and Purchase of Immobility in Details. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Amendments and Supplements Act. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the Amendment Bill, the additions of the Law on Intermediation, Transport and the lease of immovable property, in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and together three MPs of the SRS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the three MPs of the SRS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the three MPs of the SRS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the three MPs of the SRS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Intermediation, Transport and the lease of immovableity in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda in particular – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Three MPs of the SRS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SRS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Three MPs of the SRS group submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the three MPs of the SRS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Three MPs of the SRS group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the three MPs of the SRS group submitted. . Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Three MPs of the SRS group submitted together to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – discussion in particular on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37263	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, I'm reporting under Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and here are to let the citizens know that for a moment I went out to the SRS room and looked on the screen and through the transmission at what this session looked like. It is not correct, Mr Arsic, that you are at the beginning of today's new working day, and it is probably the last day when the remaining amendments that are in the procedure are read, you said that we cannot discuss the amendments because there is no time left in the Rules of Procedure. I mean, I have to make it public, because it looks really ugly when citizens follow it on their receiver screens, to say that it's just not true. There is a time for certain parliamentary groups and authorised representatives who have not used that time. We as an SRS parliamentary group are that, but when you read the amendments and say – Filip Stojanović, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic, Vesna Nikolic, etc., SRS MPs, you have a word in your written synopsis – Does anyone want a word? You probably think of those who haven't used that time, but you are obliged to say because of the citizens of Serbia that this applicant of the amendment is unable to speak because the time for the debate under the amendments is 600 minutes spent. Why? Because, Mr. Arsic, you accepted it, this is your second term as vice president of the National Assembly, that what you criticised and while you were in the SRS, when you stepped out of it, which is to deny each MP's debate by amendment. You remember all very well that we had 10 minutes to discuss each amendment, which you and how you used, as well as Mr Nedimovic who was our fellow MP and when a citizen who only joined the session like this looks, he doesn't know why we're not answering for a word. Please remind the citizens that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37264	First, immediately to correct you, my colleague Jovanovic, was not 10 but 15 minutes. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No, ten plus five. No, 15 minutes had every MP's group on every amendment. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Worse. There, you say worse. Now, I am not obliged to read or constantly remind citizens who are following the transfer of the Assembly, that the applicant of the amendment has no right to report on some business basis. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: He is right, but is denied. No, there's no right. It's denied the law when you take something away from someone. Nothing has been taken from anyone here. Amendments from various parliamentary groups have spent the time foreseen for the debate under the amendments. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37265	I don't want to, but I remind you again that it's better for both of you and your vocal cords, because you read the same thing over and over again, to occasionally tell the citizens why.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37266	Thank you for taking care of my good voice. On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The amendment promoter has no right to participate in the debate. Does anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Kostić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37267	Dear People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, here, have been given the opportunity to say a few words about the amendments to the Transport Safety Act, since with this kind of work by the Serbian Parliament, many laws that are extremely important cannot come to their turn to be discussed. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 5 of the Law is deleted, because we believe that this member of the law itself is not well defined, to whom it refers, whether penalties will be paid by any person who is a passenger, because there is always one thing in this law, and that is that the whole of this law is meant to place a complete burden on ordinary people and free citizens again. We've seen some members of the law add fines. The thing that proved to be correct, what many MPs here said when there was a debate on the Security Act, to increase speed, is now in. What's he talking about? It says that since I've been on the highway often, and I've seen how many columns there have been and how unfortunately our police had to react, people have had to stop because of the fact that the speed limit is 120. I believe that this member of the law that is changing is also the pressure of people from the West who have been stopped in giant columns on the highway due to speed limits. The Dveri MP group, and then, when the law was being discussed, gave the amendment to increase speed to 130, however, it was not then adopted, but it looks to some pressures, as is constantly being done here, the amendment has now been put into this member that is changing. One more thing I want to point out is that most people in Serbia are burdened with penalties imposed on traffic offences. In Serbia, where the salary is on average 400 euros, we pay 10,000 for the belt. Here, I'm just going to give you an example that in Italy the penalty for non-binding the belt is 70 euros. Also, many other things that are put here in this law, I repeat again, are only a fine to ordinary people, because people who have the opportunity to break and commit traffic violations have the possibility under Article 314 of the Law, which allows discretionary rights to the chief of traffic police management to forgive many penalties. So we have information that at a monthly level of over 2,000 traffic offences, a misdemeanor is suspended, and I assume that these are people who have the opportunity to get in touch with and in personal contact with people who run traffic police and thus stop their punishment, and the question is whether ordinary people will be able to free themselves from paying these penalties that are truly inappropriate for Serbia. It's one thing that's been repeated for two, three years and people who have had the chance to make the law, they've seen that the biggest punishment and the biggest money pour into the budget is just from the penalty for non-binding belts. That's why I find it inappropriate. It's just that there's an even bigger gap between rich and poor people. I repeat, this is a selective place to work. Many people have the right to be freed and stopped by processes and criminal charges on traffic offences, and some people are not allowed to do so. Now here I ask the question – should we be examples of a country where the gap between the rich and the poor is growing? We have had the opportunity to make sure in recent days that our role model should be Azerbaijan, where the average salary is 220 euros, 5% of people live on an extremely high foot, and 95% of people work for 150 euros. So we insist and always fight to make the difference between rich and poor people in Serbia as little as possible. Serbia cannot be capitalised in this way, as it is tried through this law, it can never be adopted by ordinary people because Serbia has always been a country where differences were small, where there were ordinary and social rights of workers, so we believe that these penalties are extremely high and will not contribute to improving traffic security. As we've seen, it's been said here that it's precisely the possibility that during the passage of the highway, people would stop to rest until the time has come, that this way of measuring the speed and at all these members that have been brought in over the past period is not correct. I repeat once again that the way this law is applied is not right, because people today have no real awareness of it in order to respect traffic safety. So we believe that this amendment of ours was important to adopt precisely for reasons of traffic security and respect for ordinary people who are unable to pay penalties for the inappropriate and such high prices that are presented here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37268	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37269	Thank you. Honestly, I wasn't planning on answering on this basis. But there's one thing she asked me to do. Since you've been talking about this amendment for nearly six minutes, you've been talking for so long that we've forgotten the beginning, and since we forgot the beginning, we haven't forgotten the end. I'd understand here that it's the end of Robin Hood, not that it's the Traffic Safety Act, and the only reason it's gotten into all this is citizens' safety and safety on the roads. Why is it possible to increase the speed on the roads? There's only one reason, because for the first time in 100 years, we have highways that give us the opportunity to develop such speeds, but of course, in limited conditions, where that increases the limit by 10 kilometers per hour. That wouldn't be possible if there were no highways. As far as I remember, and I think I remember well, because I live and I live by the highway, we only had one share, when you look, from Shida, so you go to Nis, and now we have more shares. And it's perfectly normal for you to get into a situation where you can change certain rules. On the other hand, acting as Robin Hood, you're actually putting yourself in a position to lose that repressive character of this whole story, which in the end also plays a preventive role, for one simple reason. Right, first year of law school learns one thing, which is that sanctions have a preventive character in the first place. By preventing you from preventing the number of unwanted consequences, no matter what. That story about the belt, it's a story like a few years ago, a story about lighting lights. These are the standards that must exist and we save and bring order to the whole story. And to reduce the penalty, I don't know at all, these stories that some of the procedures are being stopped, it's actually about the possibility that if you pay the fine within seven days to cut that amount, it's actually about that, not about some randomity and stories for little children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37270	My colleague Karic, you have no basis. There's no time. ( Dragomir Karic: I wanted to give an example. Short, one minute. I'm sorry, I can't. (Ivan Kostic: Replica. He didn't get it right, let me explain. You have no right to a replica. The minister understood you perfectly, and I understood you perfectly. You have another minute. According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Janjušević? Here you go, colleague Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37271	Thank you. Article 107 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of dignity. I would ask Mr Nedimovic, the Minister of Agriculture, who, as far as I know, is a lawyer, who tells us today about the roads, to speak with a little respect to both the MP and the citizens of Serbia who chose the MP as their representative in this high house. If you can't remember the five-minute exposure, which doesn't apply either to what you're dealing with right now or to what you're educated for, don't pass it on to the MP. So, he's here to protect the interests of the citizens and call him Robin Hudd the humiliation of all those citizens who expect us to talk here about their rights and that they are oppressed, humiliated, robbed by the judicial executioners to the bearer... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37272	Here, you just spent the last minute belonging to your MP group. (Maria Janjušević: This was according to the Rules of Procedure. This is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. She took advantage of her right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then entered into discussion and a replica with the minister, Article 103 paragraph 8. (Maria Janjušević: The one minute is slow. And that one minute is slow. If you don't do anything for 21, more or less, they won't do anything to you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37273	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'll just take a moment. I think you should have reacted when my dear colleague talked about the disturbance, the speed, or anything, that individuals have some rights and eventually don't pay the fine. I have an example of the MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37274	Just say a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37275	Article 106. I have an example of a MP who wanted to pay the fine on the spot, and he could have called for immunity. He didn't want to call for immunity, he wanted to pay the fine, however, he couldn't even go to the scene, but he had to go to the police. So now there's such a possibility that a cop, however much your brother is born, can't forgive you for that punishment, but you have to go to the police, to court, and you have to pay no matter who you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37276	I thank my colleague. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (Mihailo Jojic: Rules of Procedure) Col. Jokić, Adjudication of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37277	Article 103. At one point the speaker said – simple citizens. I'm asking him to explain what that means? That's the first time I've heard of it. Free citizens. So there are simple and complex ones. I know there's a prime number. Explain it to the citizens who chose you, what you meant when you said it – simple citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37278	According to the Rules of Procedure, does anyone else want a word? Comrade Vesovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you've hurt a member of 108 because it's obvious that you're taking care of order in the National Assembly session, but you don't care very much in a fair way. I don't see that these were two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. A colleague did not get the word to replicate, and you took two minutes from his colleague Janjusevic from the group's time because she pointed to a violation of dignity. Because if the minister says the MP tells stories about small children, and that's what the minister said, there are stenographic records, you said, Mr. Minister, if you say you don't know what he said at the beginning, you can't even figure it out in the end. In those two minutes, I wanted to explain some things to you, unfortunately, we are often not allowed to explain ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37280	For the sake of truth, colleague, I didn't take two minutes from your MP group, but a minute and three seconds. That's the first thing. The other thing, is someone going to explain to me, here, I don't understand myself, I'm not intelligent enough, maybe I'm that simple citizen who asked – what does a repressed people have to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure? Somebody explain it to me. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is a violation of an act that regulates the way the Assembly functions. I'm not a lawyer, but I learned that, as a sparrow on a branch, I was able to learn, as a simple and perhaps the stupidest MP, but I was able to learn that. Those rules mean there's no story of, let's say, in this way, one political issue in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Thank you very much. Anyone else want to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37281	Thank you, Chairman. Article 27. In that six-minute presentation, we've heard a lot, but at least from what should apply to the interpretation of the amendment itself. First we talked about the time i.e. The speaker spoke time, how much time he had to explain certain things. Time gives them the people of the election. That time is 21 minutes total. It's not our fault. Besides the people, however, some foreign ambassadors have helped them a little, along with all the violence they used on election night. As for the amendments themselves...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37282	A colleague of Vujadinovic, as I told my colleague Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37283	... I know that you presidents cannot influence what a man will say, what any of our colleagues will say at some point, but one is true for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. They are constantly accusing the ruling coalition of submitting a large number of amendments. In order to make it a little clearer for Serbia who submits amendments and who prevents them from speaking, the Dveriers have only given you one official piece of information, so far in this session they have submitted 3,572 amendments... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37284	My friend, I can't let you go anymore. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP George Komlenski, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37285	Thank you, Chairman. Of course this amendment should not be accepted. I'm not a supporter of the fact that punishments should be very high, but we have to admit that there is nothing we can do other than threaten serious punishments to get in line to respect certain things. Penalties for non-binding belts are completely adequate, even small in comparison to the benefit that belting in all situations brings to those ugly ones, when there is a car accident, it seems that we all count on it not to happen. A few more things have been missed to comment on a given explanation regarding this amendment. First of all, there's no right for a police chief to put an end to criminal acts. There are exactly the laws of a defined situation when it comes to violations. The fact is that it is a discretionary right, but it is so restrictive in application and is generally applied to ordinary citizens of Serbia, not to what gentlemen here who have spoken about it want to say. Each one of us MPs here can say how many times he's paid a penalty for a felony since he became an MP, penalties he didn't have the opportunity to pay in traffic before this, even though we have immunity. As far as that goes, no one has called on it, and really that kind of demagogy, that we listen here from members of the political group, which is the heritage of Ljatic's fascist ideology, that they talk about it and that they care about the poor citizens, I really don't understand anymore. I think that at the end of the ballad, they should really explain themselves, where they are, who they are, whether they follow their president's ideology or not, if they don't follow their brother's distance from her, everyone has the right to change their mind and attitude in life. I mean, it's not usually from a fascist to a communist, but it's possible. Well, if that's true, they don't belong where they sit but elsewhere, but then they have to say it clearly as long as they are members of a party that is officially behind the fascist ideology of Ljotic Dimitri. Therefore, they have no right to at least speak about how Serbian citizens live, how they are affected by penalties and how. If anyone's having trouble fastening their seat belts, I've got him, but I've got him tied up neatly so he doesn't question his health and his life. Therefore, a little threat to fines in place is entirely against everyone, and I must admit that also the threat of heights of fines has brought me into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37286	According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37287	Chairman, member 109 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. You were obliged to remind the previous speaker of the offensive expressions he spoke here. The other day, we received an answer from the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government to questions that have been raised about the possessions, any traditions that are not in line with the values of the Serbian people, and this here should point out to all those who are calling for it, and it will be answered one day for sure, which respects some things, and you had an obligation to react to that, because I was in a speech that, in connection with the amendment, talked about things concerning ordinary people and these are things prescribed by law, that the chief of traffic police had discretionary rights and that he used 319 times in the course of one year. So this discretionary right is being used, and that's why I'm saying it's used for people who have the opportunity to get in touch with them, not for ordinary people. So that's all you've got and that's what the former chief of the traffic police department has been talking about. So, this practice exists that individual infringements are being stopped. You had an obligation to react to these, and we will keep getting up as soon as the context of the Court and some fascist traditions are mentioned, which are not prone to our people and which are not in the Dvora programme, where the Dvori never stood up for them, and not especially, whose ancestors were killed by those same fascists, you have an obligation to react, and I will react every time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37288	I really didn't read your program, and you're here to react and to express your political views, because this is a place to express political views. A colleague, Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37289	Thank you, Chairman. Here are some claims, which really have no place, from a previous speaker who has misused the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. So now I can't help but ask the question, which the chief of the traffic police gave such a statement and which citizens, I say, were privileged or were released from paying the fine? It's just that there's some kind of cobwebs here, and by the way, there's been a threat that we'll be making arrangements for what we're saying. So I have some understanding that the previous speaker doesn't approve of what we say when we talk about the false Patriotic organization of the Dvora, but what doesn't suit him doesn't diminish the truth of the claims made. I agree that it does not suit him when we present evidence and claims that it is a Latvian ideology which, by the way, has long been overcome in the Serbian people. On the other hand, what is the truth about their close co-operation with certain representatives of the Croatian political scene who are known to go to Blyburg, etc.? What is the lie when we know they are co-operating with certain Bulgarian representatives, which parts of Serbia want to assign to Bulgaria? So, please, it's my grudge and suggestion to you to listen more carefully to what the previous speaker is saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37290	Right on line, MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, you know what you know and know what you don't know, it's a trait of someone who knows. That's what Confucius said a long time ago. What the previous speaker was saying was one salad of words. So, I'm just asking to stop that labeling practice. The secretary of state, the local self-government ministry, sent a letter saying that there are no fascist, Latvian ideas in the programme of the Serbian Movement of Dvora, and that a solution has been made on this basis to register political organisations in the Republic of Serbia's Doveri movement. Do you disrespect the minister you chose, that's your problem, and we'll keep you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37292	A colleague of Vesovic's?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37293	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37294	I must tell you, if you continue with this tone, then you are humiliating the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37295	I apologize if I've been a little louder.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37296	The MPs have obligations only to the Constitutional Court, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37297	But indeed, if we are constantly suffering insults without foundation, then it is a little understandable that the tone may be increased without the intention of being elevated to someone special. If anyone felt it, here I apologize, I don't have that problem, and you chairman know that I speak louder, that my way of expressing it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37298	I don't mind if you speak a little louder than you can honor the MPs of the people whether they respect the opinion of a Secretary of State or an assistant minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37299	Thank you. Article 27. To avoid confusion, I appeared shortly after Mr. Ivan Kostic's first speech, because I believe that every MP, when speaking in the National Assembly, should make sure that he respects his citizens and the MPs, but also other nations and other countries. I think that Mr. Ivan Kostic, with a lot of demeanor and demeanor, spoke about the Republic of Azerbaijan, even presented an incorrect fact that the average salary there was 250 euros, and nearly missed almost twice, but even if it was true, I don't think that this is the way to talk about other countries, especially countries that have not recognised Kosovo and which are friends of the Republic of Serbia, because then it turns out that they are matched by Ivan Pernar and Bulgarian ATAKA, they don't find it appropriate to someone who has proven himself a great friend of our country many times. I think you should have reacted to that and pointed to that kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37300	Dude, I really didn't hear that. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37301	Dear President, you have injured several members, but let it be Article 106(1) that the speaker can only speak about the point of the agenda under investigation, which the peoples of the Serbian Movement Dvora strictly adhered to in the case of this debate on details, unlike the MPs of the ruling majority who have been given the opportunity to insult the dignity of the National Assembly and MPs of the Serbian Movement Dveri. So, here for two years, we have suffered this kind of humiliation, insult, and trampling of our personal dignity. There's nothing about us that's not said, vulgarly, rudely, incorrectly, falsely, and so on. There is no one else to protect us, Mr. Chairman, except you. I see that you enjoy it when someone insults us and it is your right to be hypocritical and to allow someone to do what they want and to live with us, because we will never get a chance to answer. It's not a hero, but if you think it's heroism, then you're a great hero, Mr. Chairman. I now tell you one thing, me personally, and other people's MPs of the Serbian Chamber movement, you can insult as much as you want, and even our families to insult, but this insolence that the Dvori is being brought into any connection with fascism, and we belong to a people who have suffered from fascism and that among the most injured people in Europe, it is such a great personal insult that I ask you and warn anyone who tries to talk to the People's Parliaments of the Serbian Movement of Dveri that they will have a serious problem with us. I've never personally offended anyone in this way, I've always spoken politically without any personal insults, and I ask you to protect me from such personal insults. I'm not a fascist, I'm an anti-fascist, and if anyone else repeats about the Serbian Dvora movement, about our MPs such a label and lies, they'll have a serious problem with us, I promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37302	My colleague, are you threatening? Do I need to remind you what all of your fellow MPs that you're presenting as being threatened spoke from this pay phone in this assembly, certain questions you've asked, whether high-ranking state officials beat up their wives and children, that's what you asked here. That's the kind of question you've been asking. What you were saying about the president and his brother. You've mentioned everything possible, all family members, and you've suffered almost no consequences. But when you get into that circuit, then be prepared to bear the consequences politically. You're accusing someone of beating up their family, and we witnessed what was going on here in 2016 in the National Assembly building on King Milan Street when there was a break-in in the RIK premises. Be aware that it will always haunt you. And, don't threaten anyone else in terms of having serious consequences, you can mention the political consequences, but if you don't limit it, I'm really seeing it as a threat. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Yes) According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 107th and 108th. Mr. Chairman, the dignity of the National Assembly has been severely violated and you have been obliged to apply, and I appreciate your tolerance, the provisions of Article 108. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, covered and poorly covered threats have been made. I know that nothing I know is Socrates, and the real saying of Confucius -- who doesn't know he doesn't know, but knows something. Apparently, it means they're getting weaker. I am not Mr. Chairman writing for Ljotic's "Iskra", it was written by someone from there. I did not announce a guerrilla struggle in the Serbian Parliament, it was announced by someone from there. That someone's name is Bosko Obradovic. Just to remind you, the parallel is, Dimitrije LJotic said about his political action, and Mr Martinovic knows it, we don't need voters, we need fighters. So this is very similar to the performance of Mr Obradovic, who said that he was not interested in the political struggle, that he was moving on to a guerrilla fight, and that on a committee he tried to do, that is, to solve the political problem with violence. He has a saying: "Whomever you are with him, who you are with. If someone hangs out with the Bulgarian neo-fascist organisation ATAKA, if someone welcomes the success of the neo-Nazi organisation Alternative for Germany, if someone hosts a man whose grandfather here asked in another space, but in the Assembly – since it is Serbian blood. If someone hangs out with people like that, then she's the saying - who you're with, obviously, right here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-24-0.u37304	I don't think there was any damage to that member. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. Well, you have no right to do business in replication. No, you've already spoken. We'll continue with further work. Did anyone else want a word by amendment (No) to Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. With this, dear colleagues, today's work would be over and we will continue tomorrow at 10.00. Thank you very much. [[The session was suspended at 12.05 p.m.]]
