ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38868	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have conditions to begin the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The first enlisted Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38869	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask one question to the National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Miss Ana Brnabic. There's been a big affair that he's known to the whole world. One Serbian MP was celebrated by stealing a perfume, three lipsticks, and one mule at Frankfurt airport from the fridge, and I don't know what the mule was for, but it still seems to have been fortified. There's no state in the world whose media didn't publish it. All your efforts to hire lobbyists in America to fix the image of Serbia in the world, Meho Omerovic comes and makes millions of them confetti. What's the reaction in Serbia? That's why I'm asking you my question. I was horrified, and in Serbia everyone is quiet, and you, Mrs. Gojkovic, as president of the National Assembly, and you should say something. I think you should apologize to the President of the German Parliament for this and say that you will make sure that such MPs never travel to Germany again. She also had to react as Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. Ivica Dacic says – Meho Omerovic is not a diplomat. He's not a professional diplomat, but he was on a diplomatic mission and that's why he got a diplomatic passport, not an official of the foreign ministry, but was in the diplomatic mission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why wasn't a diplomatic passport taken from him at Belgrade airport when he returned? Everybody's quiet. He still has a diplomatic passport. Do you know that, Mrs. Gojkovic? He's still got a diplomatic passport, and he can still travel wherever he wants, so no one can arrest him. You know what, and if he didn't have a diplomatic passport, it's not some big steal. That's about 170 euros, he'd pass with a court notice or parole, so he'd be expelled from Germany and banned for five years and had no diplomatic passport. But this is a shame that our MP is inclined to do so. He has defiled the face of the world with heart, and we are trying to make this face as beautiful as possible, to show that we are a decent people, an honest people, an honest people, and he is lying so inconclusive that doctors laugh, these gastroenterologists, as they are called, Marianne, you are an expert in this, these doctors, stomach experts. Are those gastroenterologists? They laugh because that reaction he described in medicine is impossible. What do we do now? The question is, what do we do now? He has also scheduled for today a session of the Assembly Committee on Human and Minority Rights, which is an important assembly committee that takes care that minorities in Serbia have all the rights guaranteed by international agreements, all the rights that have been introduced into our Constitution, and you know that Serbia is proud of the high level of minority rights and the previous Yugoslavia, although we were under the communist dictatorship, minority rights are respected. Could such a person be the chairman of this committee? He signed the invitation to the board meeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38870	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38871	It hasn't expired yet, has it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38872	Yeah, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38873	The Committee session was held today, and you haven't taken advantage of the opportunity to change it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38874	As far as I'm concerned as president, I'm really working to shed light on the case that cast a shadow on our Parliament's reputation. A report that is not yet public I received from the German police from the airport and I must say for the public that MP Meho Omerovic did not justify the work done in this regard, but called for diplomatic immunity. He did not make a statement as it exists in the media and because he owns a diplomatic passport, he was released because of the fact, not because of some other circumstances. As for me as president, I have to sign orders, and the committees of parliament decide whether to travel or not. (Vojislav Seselj: You have the right to initiative on the committee. Yes, I have the right not to sign. I have the right not to sign that one of the MPs is traveling. As for the possible extension of the diplomatic passport, if the situation is as it is in the report, I will not sign for someone in parliament to receive a diplomatic passport and I am willing to talk about it and defend arguments with all MPs, regardless of whether they form the ruling majority or opposition. If necessary, we will talk to all the heads of Parliament and those who are silent and who know how to be in other cases and ask for various sanctions against MPs, that we have the same criteria for all. So, when I have more details, I have nothing to hide, I'm going to get to know you all about, so we're going to see what parliament can, and what it can't do, what the political decision of individual parties is, not ours. As far as I'm concerned, the rest of us will forward your question, so we hope you get an adequate answer. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38875	Just at the start of advertising, I don't know the professional service or who, that this right-hand unit isn't working, so I'm asking you to make it right when your colleagues come. My question first goes to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Minister, or the Ministry of Energy, and concerns these days of the topic, which is the price of fuel and these protests that are being organised. One is our political opinion on these protests, and the other is whether people will participate in them or not, but thirdly, and I would say what is common to everyone, whether we are MPs, whether we are ordinary citizens, that is that the fuel prices in Serbia are very high. It's not demagogy, it's an obvious fact. Depending on how we measure, the result is something different, but objectively speaking, given the purchasing power of the population, fuel prices, especially diesels, are among the highest in Europe, if not the most, especially given the ratio of the purchasing power of the population. In that sense, I simply appeal to the Government, specifically the Ministry of Energy, to consider, in the domain of its competences, what are the responsibilities of the Government and the Ministry, the possibility of reducing excise duties, as well as some other duties. It is a fact, whether you like it or not, that taxes with more than half of them take part in the price of fuel in Serbia, and it's a little bit almost constantly slipping. After all, but, I say, I don't have time for a wide-ranging lab right now, the fact is that five years ago, before this government arrived, that the price of crude oil on the world market was twice as expensive as today, and the fuel was significantly cheaper. So, I repeat and stress, it was twice as expensive at one point crude oil, and the fuel in Serbia was cheaper. One more thing, especially us who are a little older, here I am for 50 years, remember, I don't know that diesel was ever more expensive than regular gasoline. So I don't know how that happened? Is the technology changed, the way of production, what happened, or have some people simply concluded on diesel, which is necessary, especially in agriculture, can be more easily charged and easier to raise funds? It is one subtle way, all these excises, as well as other ways, is a subtle way of dragging your hands into the citizens' pocket in an invisible or not at first sight visible way and it is not good and I just think that this politically potentially flammable situation could be easily resolved by the government considering the possibility of reducing these prices, even if symbolically, even if it were to show a gesture of good faith, not to go hunting witches and looking for who was behind desperate spontaneous or more or less spontaneous protests. So instead of accusing the opposition or anyone else, third and fourth, simply to solve it. On the other hand, this current ruling majority also had great understanding in 2011 and earlier, when they were opposition, for protests of all kinds, including warlords, and farmers, and raviners and all others. Now, of course, things have changed, because the roles have changed, but from their habitat citizens are still essentially who sits in power. All they see is the cost of their lives getting more and more expensive. The second question and the last one goes to the Ministry of Defence's address, and it has been repeated my question since 22 May, when I asked about those drones, or drones, that flew Serbia's territory at the end of March. I haven't got the answer to that question yet. I asked if there were any flights, across Serbia's territory how, when and how, do you know whose aircraft they were, were they on a recon mission, if there was a possibility of fact, if we had sent a demarch and a coma? The answer didn't come to me, but it arrived to one agency, or one portal, which announced that the Ministry of Defence had announced that these were minors of some small toys, drones, to be used as for the smuggling of goods, narcotics, woodcutters, etc. My information is already different. It's not about toy drones, which we can buy and send, it's about a little bit more serious stuff. So I ask the Department of Defense to once again, if I lose an answer somewhere, give me a concrete answer about it, not that, as I have the impression, minimizes the situation of this incident and that scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38876	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38877	Thank you. My first question is for the finance minister, Mr. Sinisha Malloy. Is it true that he bought a house in which Alexander Leka Rankovic, head of the secret service and minister of police in the former SFRY, lived from 1966 to 1983 and owned until nationalisation by Smiljana Cavic? The facility is on the street of Andre Nikolic 5, in Senjak, of 409 square meters, with two smaller buildings of 108 square meters, and about 40 acres of pay in this elite location. On the real estate market, the facility was estimated at 4.5m euros in time, so that its price would fall to 3.7m euros in 2017 and enjoy the status of "Good under Previous Protection" within the spatial continent of Senak – Topcider Mountain – Dedinje. In 2000, the facility received the Serbian Olympic Committee from the SRJ government, but prescribed it to the City of Belgrade, which it sold to supplement the budget. At the time, Mr. Sinisha Mali was the mayor of Belgrade, so once again I asked Mr. Sinisha Malo, is this, for the time being, unconfirmed information true and, if it is, did this property Minister of Finance report to the Anti-Corruption Agency, at the time of the entry into office of the finance minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Question for Parliament Speaker, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. For months now, the National Assembly of Serbia has been working without the secretary general. According to Article 36. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, if the Secretary-General of the National Assembly ceases his post or resolution until the appointment of the new Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the National Assembly, shall be served by the Secretary-General, appointed by the President of the National Assembly. According to Article 37. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly, shall cease on the day of appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the new National Assembly, resignation or resolution. Since the current deputies of the secretary-general did not appoint this assembly meeting, but rather were taken over from the previous call, we can conclude that we do not even have a deputy secretary-general, i.e. that the current deputies are irregularly appointed, and the Assembly is working in an irregular manner, thus questioning all decisions made in this session. It's very worrying and illegal. For these reasons, I ask the question of the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Maja Gojkovic – how is it possible that she ignored the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, thereby jeopardising the regularity of the work of this institution and also when she intends to propose a new Secretary-General, who would propose after the appointment of his deputies whom she would appoint in a regular manner the National Assembly? A question for the president of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vucic -- who commands Serbia's military after Chief of Staff Ljubisa Dikovic gained all conditions for retirement by turning 58? This question was referred by the military union to the state summit, but it was left without an answer, and here for 20 days we don't actually have a Chief of Staff. All the decisions Ljubisa Dikovic signs are illegal, as he has been legally not in the professional military service since 22 May. The military union issue was ignored by Defence Committee Chairman Marija Obradovic, as well as by Defence Minister Mr Vulin. So I ask the question to the Serbian President, Mr. Alexander Vukic -- how could this General Staff Chief-in-Office vacuum ever come to light, or has he made a final decision on General Dikovic's pension or possibly an indication of his stay in office for no longer than two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38878	Thank you very much. We'll answer you right away. Yes, I'm working on recommending the secretary general, and then later the deputy. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, such an act does not exist at all. So you misquoted the name of the act, so you misquoted the members. We do not have a Rules of Procedure, but the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is not the same, but I have informed you, we are working with EU member states on a good draft that we will later develop here in Parliament, the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and we are working together with them on the ethical code, because they do not have it. So, rarely does an EU member have a code of ethics, so we'll work on it. We do not have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, neither will we. I hope you're satisfied with my answer. As for the staff solutions, yes, we are in an emergency session, and I cannot without the support of a number of MPs to put such issues on the agenda. Don't worry about anything. Otherwise, decisions are valid because they do not vote on the Secretary-General and the deputies, and they do not affect the quality or legality of decision-making, and this falls. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38879	I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance about fuel collection in Serbia. In fact, how much money goes into the Republic's fuel sales budget and when they think they're taking advantage of the legal opportunity to reduce excise duty? In the last month, the price of gasoline has increased by 4.8%, while diesel has accumulated by 6.2%. The biggest problem is the overpriced state that participates with about 55% through excises in the price of gasoline, while the diesel is close to 54%. Unfortunately, we are at the bottom of the European scale at the level of profits, but we seem to be at the price of the elevator among the first, and this is the fuel used most in agricultural production and goods transport and directly affects the final price of many products. Minister Antic, unfortunately, deceives citizens with statements that he hopes there will be a fall in the price of oil and its derivatives in the coming period, and if this does not happen, the Serbian government will consider what measures are at its disposal. I ask the question – what are these measures and when will they be applied? The director of NIS recently said that the company imports 2/3 of oil that it consumes, which means that 1/3 of the oil that is in circulation from our country, from Vojvodina's hurricanes. The question arises – can Russian partners and brothers give up their share of their profits from our oil? According to their own recognition, they made 80% more net profits last year than in 2016, or 27 billion dinars, or around 200m euros. When will the government stop saving money to a majority Russian-owned company at the expense of their own country's citizens? In particular, it concerns the way NIS exploits oil in Serbia, which not only threatens the environment, but also permanently leads to the destruction of Serbia's mineral wealth. In fact, in Serbian oil fields, the Russian company uses a fragmentation method that is banned in other countries and is not used in its country. I ask the question of the Minister of Energy – does the state, as a minority owner of the NIS, via its ministry, control what is done with national wealth what oil is, how much oil is exploited in Serbia and what methods? Experts warn that unless it is done soon, in 2021, Serbia will not have a drop of its oil even though it produced millions of tonnes annually from its own oil fields. According to an estimate by economic analysts, Serbia has entered into NIS for the past eight years the value of national treasure, i.e. Oil and gas, which is valued at around four billion euros, totalled slightly less than 800m euros based on mining rent, dividends, unallocated profits and profit taxes. It is, unfortunately, the current two countries in which the Russian side has invested international political assistance to preserve integrity and sovereignty, and we, or the Serbian side, are investing in oil and gas. So, where are we today? The majority Russian owner of the NIS continues to pay a mine rent in our country of only 3%, not seven, as regulated by the Mining and Geological Research Act, while the Russian Federation's mining and mining rent is about 20%, and in Europe's countries between 10% and 20%. If a law was applied to define a mine rent, today we would have no fuel collection, and we of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina have an understanding for civil protests. So, to remind you, we've been against NIS sales and ten years ago we've been fighting this kind of leverage with our wealth and we're looking for a change in the Energy Agreement. That's why I'm asking the government - will the government ask for an audit of the energy agreement with the Russians and an increase in the mining rent in accordance with the law? Also, I ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture – did he ask the Government to get cheaper fuel, since they are particularly threatened by this collection? Minister Nedimovic said at the end of January that the way producers would be given cheaper fuel, but the precondition for this is the existence of a register that would distinguish the right from fictitious producers. The harvest, fuel producers, or farmers, are paying from 160 to 170 dinars, while Europe's farmers pay a maximum of 90 dinars. If we know what is the standard in the EU, which in our country, our farmers cannot be competitive and this leads to the total destruction of the village. When, I ask the last question, will the Ministers of Energy and Finance address the public on this issue and, of course, when will the prime minister address? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38880	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38881	Thank you. I would ask the first question to the Prime Minister and Vice-President, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, and it is about the announcement that "Etihad" will not extend the contract with "Er Serbia" which has allowed management as a minority partner in the last five years. Does the government have a plan for a situation that will take place on January 1st next year, when the governance of Er Serbia will be fully in its hands and what are the measures, which are in place to change the disastrous situation in this company? For five years, nearly five years since the formation of ER Serbia and the management by the minority partner Etyhad brought Serbia's citizens one of the most expensive transports compared to competition, and brought by a company that cannot operate on the market without State subsidies. Now the company will be left to manage a government that has a custom and simple practice of naming unprofessional people in responsible places. I think Serbian citizens have the right to receive a report for the money given to the company Er Serbia on their behalf in the past five years. What is more important, how will it be managed and how will the company manage and what goals? Just to repeat the fact that after these five years, although announced, there will be no purchase of new planes, that Serbia has not been connected through the Er Serbia company to the Far East, that it has not been increased, on the contrary, the initial number of flights to North America has been reduced, and that most of the services in Er Serbia have been reduced and brought to the level of "hunding" companies where you do not have, you cannot get a glass of water, you have to pay everything else. It is certainly not the level of the national company, where it is the majority owner of the state of Serbia and certainly is not the level and manner of business of the company that citizens finance from the budget. The second question is for the Deputy Prime Minister, Nebojsa Stefanovic, that's a question I have to repeat because I didn't get an answer, and that's when will the head of the criminal police administration be appointed, the most important administration in the police to fight organised crime, the most corruption, the drug fight against drug dealers, everything that is missing today in Serbia, or is there not? We see that unfortunately the streets of the Serbian cities have become minors not shot. The other day we had not one but two mob murders in one day, but unfortunately, this most important administration that should fight the most serious forms of crime, for a year and a half, there is no one to manage, and it certainly gives negative results and reflects the security situation of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to appeal once again to the Deputy Prime Minister that instead of forcing members of the police to harass citizens who are rightly protesting high fuel prices these days, to do their job primarily, which is to keep an eye on how the police and their ministry, who are doing the most important functions in this system, do they even have them? In this case, we can see they're gone. I say, if the situation in the ministry itself, in the ministry's work doesn't change anything, we will certainly have a much worse situation for Serbia's citizens' safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38882	Thank you. Branislav Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38883	Thank you. I have a question for Serbian President Alexander Vukic. The director of the government's KIM Office Marko Djuric said yesterday, quote -- that citizens have no reason to be afraid of rattling weapons from Pristina, because institutions are stable and are able to protect and defend the country. Well, here, let's see if that's right. Under the law, 256 defence entities, including the president of the Republic and the ministry, have an obligation to surrender the defence plan. It is a document on emergency and wartime handling, which contains a plan of rocking into the shelter, a plan of moving to a reserve location, a plan of alert measures, telecommunications security, etc. According to the latest public information from the Ministry of Defence for the last quarter of 2017, the 2016 defence plan was not handed over to the Ministry of Defence by former President Tomislav Nikolic, and then the new President Aleksandar Vukic. The plans were never handed over by the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Justice, European integration and environmental protection. Since this same information has been labeled "confidential" by the Ministry of Defence for the first three months of 2018, we ask that we be provided with information whether the president finally submitted the defence plan for 2018 and why did he not hand it over for 2017? The question of Defence Minister Vulina – when will he take steps to determine criminal and criminal responsibility against persons who do not carry out defence tasks? Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's question – what will he do about the fact from the Defence Ministry's report that persons doing defence planning work are insufficiently professional for this? Serbian citizens should know, the president of the Republic, the commander-in-chief does not have a defence plan and believes it is irrelevant to deliver it to the defence ministry, although almost every day numerous tabloids, which represent the voice of the Serbian and Alexander Vukic, scare citizens with alleged attacks by NATO and Kosovo Albanians. Since the president is obviously in no hurry, nor does Minister Vulin remind the president, it is clear that SNS officials know by whom they are harassing citizens with the threat of war in order to distract them from burning issues, such as. how many governments of Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabic have so far been abducted from pensioners and from public sector employees' salaries. The next question is for Minister of Education Mladen Sarcevic. The European Higher Education Area Ministerial Conference is held every three years. This year she was in Paris from May 24th to May 25th. Each conference discusses a report on the implementation of the Bologna Process. Our score this year is 2.54% on a scale from zero to five. The assessment is constantly dropping and this is practically since the start of the implementation of Bologna, since 2005, the lowest so far. It was only lower at the beginning of 2.2%. So far, Serbia's assessment of the Ministerial Conference on Implementation of Bologna was: 2005, Bergen – 2.2, 2007, London – 4.2%, 2009, Luven – 3.8%, 2012, Bucharest – 3.1%, 2015, Yerevan – 3.8% and 2018, Paris – 2.54%. We point out the indicator one, which is rated by one. This practically means that there is no standard for assessing the use of ESP points, i.e. the burden of students and the links of points and learning outcomes. What is particularly interesting, unbound by indicators, is the addition of diplomas to all countries is free of charge, except guess where, in Serbia-Montenegro, students have to pay taxes. At Montenegro's university, students pay 15 euros, but in Serbia, the addition to a diploma is always issued with a diploma and the price of this document is amazing 40 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38884	Thank you. Time. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38885	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer the question to Alexander Vukic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. It has been five months since Oliver Ivanovic was killed, and Serbian citizens, Oliver Ivanovic's family, absolutely do not know who killed him, why he was killed, and we had a handful of statements from the president of the Republic of Serbia that next week will be revealed who killed him, that in the next few days we will have much more information on who is behind this murder, that many will be surprised what actually happened. Then, insinuations from Kosovo President Hashim Thaci, who said many would not respond when Kosovo authorities say who killed Oliver Ivanovic and why. Hoxhaj, the deputy prime minister of the Kosovo government, accused Serbia of obstructing the investigation process conducted by the special prosecutor's office in Pristina. My question is for the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – who killed Oliver Ivanovic and when will we know the truth? It will be nearly six months after the murder, as Oliver Ivanovic was literally shot in Kosovo, Mitrovica. For the first two months, the main prosecutor's office launched an investigation mainly involving members of Serbian nationality. They used to be in the Serbian state system, now they're in Kosovo. Many information leaks and the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia had everything on the plate. What happened in the meantime? Why is the Serbian Special Prosecutor's Office silent and why have no broad investigation into what preceded the murder? What did Oliver Ivanovic say just a few weeks before the BIA murder? What kind of statement did he make? Who did he point to when it came to burning the car right before the murder? When it came to threats both to him personally and to his family, what was going on and what was the BIA doing to protect Oliver Ivanovic, given all the information he provided on several occasions before being shot in northern Kosovo Mitrovica? Why did the Serbian Prosecutor's Office not launch an investigation against Mark Đuric, Zeljko Mitrovica, against people who are directly perpetrators of the political persecution of Oliver Ivanovic and the political background of Oliver Ivanovic's murder? Why has no one listened to the owner of Pink or Mark Đuric's TV, who spoke at RTS on several occasions the most terrible insult to Oliver Ivanovic's account, how is the traitor to Serbia, how is someone Serbia should be ashamed of, that someone who breaks Serbia's unity in Kosovo, the Serb people in Kosovo, is someone who does not wish well for Serbia and Serbs living in Kosovo? Which is why they're getting some anger now, which is why we're asking what happened to Oliver Ivanovic, and why was he killed? Who's Radojcic? The vice-president of the Serb list at KIM, supported by the SNS, which supports Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj. These are issues that Serbian citizens are entitled to, and Oliver Ivanovic's family is entitled to.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38886	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38887	Thank you, Chairman. I refer the first question to Mayor and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Given that almost the entire campaign for the Belgrade elections has been focused on promises that are more than ambitious, I wonder when the promise that the president made to the citizens of Batajnica during the campaign will be realized, and who have been tormented for years by the sewerage that is not available in most parts of the settlement? The problem is not only the faecal sewerage that is missing, but also the lack of rain canalization, which creates extremely big problems for the citizens of Batajnica. There's no more rain than we've had a couple of days ago with rainfall, which practically doesn't paralyze the parts of Batajnica. Among the most critical parts, I would single out the part that leads from Batajnica to Nova Pazova, and then the part that leads from Batajnica to the Banovci settlement and the part called Shanghai, which is based on another land settlement, which is Busije. All these settlements have a rainwater problem. I'm fully aware that the investment isn't small, but I'm sure it's much smaller than solving any damage. I am not as imaginative as Zoran Radmilovic, in the performance "Radovan the Third", suggested that a sewer and metro be made at the same cost, but I am sure there is a meaningful solution. The joke aside, in the pictures I'm about to show you, you can see that the streets of Batajnica are flooded, among them is Major Zoran Radosavljevic, who is usually the main street, then the street of Marko Peričina Kamanjera and the Dalmatian brigades. All these houses look like they're swimming on rivers, and they're actually on land. It is time to set deadlines for all promises made in the election campaign and set priorities. Priorities for the village at 22km from the centre of Belgrade are not fountains and masts, but the most common fecal and rainy sewerage. Another question for Minister Mihajlovic concerns the same settlement. The tour around Batajnica, I think, was started about ten years ago. The batinica before the construction was connected directly to the highway exit. However, when the works started, Batajnica was practically cut off from the highway. There is one part of the industrial zone that lies between Batajnica and Zemun, which is practically, more or less, some roads that the businessmen themselves have opened connected to the highway, but that is not a serious solution. The Batajnica itself is practically located in one isolation. It is not known when chaos is greater, when students, students, are gravitating towards Belgrade in the afternoon or when they return from their duties to their homes. If you analyze the announcements of work, you will see that they are intensified during the pre-election campaigns, which is the case with 2012, 2014, as well as this last campaign and shut up immediately afterwards. According to the 2011 census, Batajnica has 48,000 inhabitants. Today, much more and a large number of citizens are probably due to the fact that there is no highway exit practically paralysed. When will the exit on the highway be open? The issue, too, for Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. From the village of Lipik, the village of Tulari, in the municipality of Ub, there are many children walking to school, or that road is about two kilometers away. The road is not paved and bad. As long as it's nice weather and somehow the kids go to school, but as soon as it rains without deep boots, they can't show up at school. They wrote to me the parents of these children to ask a question in the Assembly, I am doing it today, is it in the plan to provide these children with a normal approach to the school they attend, can I expect this time rescheduled by the beginning of the next school year, which is in September? A question for the newly elected finance minister. We have proposed how the crisis can be resolved by increasing the fuel price in Serbia immediately before the blockades in Serbia started. They've started since June 8th, and they're pretty intense to date. We ask you – when will you send us an answer if the proposal is acceptable to you, since there seems to be no more adequate solution than reducing excise duties and calculating VAT on the excise duty itself? So we have a short and medium-term solution, we sent it to the newly elected finance minister, we expect an answer. It is very important that Serbian citizens know that a solution was sent from the Serbian Parliament. The centre movement and the MP group Free MPs sent this solution before the barricades started. Given that he's being threatened by traffic police, I advise everyone to put on their vests and mark the proper cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38888	Thank you. Anyone else want to ask a question? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38889	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens, helps all. My question is, of course, going to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia on the most important topic these days, which is whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia was discussing the possibility of reducing the excise fuel in Serbia, which would finally meet its own citizens and act as a reduction of the really high fuel price in our country? I really want, on a very good note, to draw attention to the current government that the protests, which have started on Friday in Serbia because of the overpriced fuel, are one important warning from the authorities that citizens can no longer really endure so much government pressure and practically drag their hands into the pocket of all the poorer citizens with such high fuel prices. Instead of answering a very simple question – whether the government of the Republic of Serbia will reduce excise duties and thus meet its own citizens, we have received various charges, attempts to bring citizens in, arrests, cause various confrontations that are really unnecessary. The question is very simple – why did Serbia's fuel raise 10 dinars on average since New Year's Eve? Why is fuel in Serbia for 35 to 45 dinars more expensive than in the environment? Why is fuel, diesel fuel in Serbia the most expensive in Europe? Why does excise fuel amount to 53 to 55% of the price of fuel in Serbia? So, that's the state's fuel supply. I draw your attention that the government must take care that this is not only about the price of fuel for all citizens of Serbia, but it is about the price of fuel affecting the second increase in prices in Serbia, that it is about the price of fuel that is of exceptional interest to all businessmen and farmers in Serbia. I will remind you, as far as farmers are concerned, that the only ones in Europe do not have a regressed diesel fuel for agricultural production, which is their basic means of working. So, you must, although it seems to you to be a protest of the opposition, understand the dissatisfaction of citizens who simply cannot bear such a high price of fuel. Serbia's Dvori Movement is not the organiser of these protests, but we absolutely support the justified demands of dissatisfied citizens towards a reduction in fuel prices in Serbia and we will always support them in every place where such types of protests are organised. Of course, we're against any incidents. We believe that these protests should be peaceful, dignified, that all emergencies should be missed and that they are held as they were done on Friday from 5:00 to 6:00, but we can't influence that, because we don't organize it. You have to understand that it's not really the answer to you calling your political opponents political lunatics, thieves, beatings, seciks. This is not an answer to the issue of reducing excise duty and fuel cost in Serbia. You have to answer that. The second question that businessmen have, which has a return to excise duty, which is at 8.7 dinars per litre, you have to understand how important it is for them, and that is another way to help them, to increase the excise duty for businesses in Serbia, because fuel is their basic means of working. I'm particularly referring here to auto transporters and transport carriers. They usually have a problem with international licenses, they have a problem with going to better paid jobs abroad, with keeping at the border, with customs, with competition, with care, from an environment that has much cheaper fuel and, of course, what I particularly want here to appeal to get rid of, have a problem with the parking of a truck on international transport in a customs procedure. Therefore, something called the user of the base in the customs procedure has been introduced and, be careful what happens, pending the implementation of the Law on the prescribed customs procedure, carriers on the customs order must park vehicles owned by private or local self-government, which the Customs Administration has chosen through a public call and for the service provided to them, without being sought, pay some price to the owner of the property. So it's hard for the transporters to understand this and this is just an extra fine on them. The point of the story is very simple – solve the problem, do not accuse others of the problem that you have made too high the price of excise duty, the level of excise duty in Serbia. You have two ways: to reduce the excise on fuel and increase the return of those funds that go to excise on businesses and to introduce regressed diesel fuel for farmers. So, citizens expect a solution from you, not an attack on the opposition, not something that no president of the world would say for his political opponents that political lunatics, beatings, thieves and seciks. It's not a simple speech that needs... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38890	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state is not our private property. We're in this assembly right now. The state is a community of people. The state is a misery that protects against injustice and misfortune and trouble. The state is bound, whoever's in power, to make sure there's a state in the country. I ask you, which of these opposition yellow powers has been fenced from this? This man the state was supposed to protect, it was our obligation, he was brutally beaten, organized by those who wanted to destabilise the country, to bring fear and unrest among the citizens. Their headquarters is in Skopje. In Budapest Orban won't take them. These are the left arm, the left arm, the right pocket. For example, Jeremic, Jankovic, Bosko Obradovic, Gilas. This is a famous left. They're blocking and beating people up. They're real inspirers and organizers of it. Let's take it in a row. Fuel's expensive. Our farmers need to know that intensively with their associations they're looking for a model to free them of the pieces of excise duty, but not to lead to smuggling. This was the solution. One solution is that those there that Scott introduced to parliament go to the United States and say – don't make any more conflicts in Syria, Libya, Iran, Iraq, right, Duke, and don't raise the price of fuel anywhere in the world, even in Serbia. That's one solution, to ask them, since they're close to Scott. The second solution was not to sell NIS. They sold NIS, both refineries, sold all the warehouses, sold oil and gas in Vojvodina, where the state could lower the fuel price. They sold to get the sympathy and re-election of Boris Tadic in 2008. Boris Tadic and Kostunica were kidnapping around the chair there during the sale. We didn't sell it. What Borko Stefanovic writes, they are calling for a blockade – the leader of the NIS negotiating team for sale. What does it say? All congratulations to Serbia, block, give it a hot fall, etc. Let's move on, let's see what he said before. He's blocked the Prellina. Big farmer, Bosko Obradovic. Six members of the family in the public sector, 50 million received from excise duties for the party last year, 28 million, right, Duke, put in his pocket a canopy of alleged electrorads. Washed the money. He wants excise money, but his excise is too big. He's a great defender. What the Preljina says is a great defender – Serbia needs to be blocked. What says Marija Janjusevic, who blocked the Serbian patriarch? What does she say on the roadblocks? He says they're not the organizers. "On Monday, the blockade until the requirements are met, there is no withdrawal, no surrender." That's what she says. She says there's no fuel, fuck, she says. It's written in Latin. A big family organization blocked families. And watch out, dam the Cyrillic, everything from the blockade. Let's move on - blocked the patriarch in Vojvodina. Now, that's that family church organization. Marija Janjusevic, again, statement – announcement of the blockade, from 17 to 21. She's re-announced the blockade. Then who are the organizers? Let's move on. Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Jankovic, Balša Bozovic, president of the Surcin municipal board, a member of the DS's main board. What is waiting, my question, what will the state do about destabilising the country and trying to destabilise? No one can bring Serbia down from the outside until these insides help her. They need to know that in conflict with us, alone with ourselves, we must be losing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38892	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38893	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, and my question concerns illegal protests and roadblocks in Serbia, which are happening these days, and is addressed to the interior ministry. First of all, I would like to congratulate the members of the MUP on the quick and effective action of the arrests of the people who beat up, but also robbed a citizen, Bozidar Milic, during yesterday at one of the locations where the so-called The protest in Borca is clearly manifested and thus a message has been sent that we will not allow and suffer any kind of violence, that there is no tolerance to violence, that it is unacceptable for anyone to endanger the safety of our citizens in any way. The arrogant minority has been terrorising the absolute majority for days and this is the first time since the 2008 murder of Ranko Panic to be beaten in Serbia by political inexperiences, that someone in Serbia is beaten just because he has a different political stance, only because he dared to condemn something or disagree with some political stance. Three men in a year twenty-something or thirty-three years beat up a man who is almost fifty years old and robbed him and I find it absolutely unacceptable and that the organisers of these protests best showed their true face and therefore I ask the MUP – will they take the necessary actions, will they investigate the organisers of these protests, the same people who have been advocates of various scenarios for years, advocates of various forms of bloodshed in Serbia, the same ones who are willing to cause riots and chaos in the streets, but that doesn't go hand in hand? One of them tried to say earlier that they had nothing to do with these protests, and we know very well the real truth about it, and that what I'm saying is the truth, which my colleague Risticevic was talking about earlier, we can clearly see from their tweets these days. Zoran Zivkovic says – the protest must be stronger and more consistent. On Monday morning, at 9 a.m., all intersections in Serbia are to be blocked and remain there until the government of Aleksandar Vukic and its SNS have reduced excise duties. That's what Zoran Zivkovic said a few days ago. Let's move on. Miroslav Aleksic, also one of them, one of Jeremic's MPs, better ask the question – on which they received 200,000 euros from Qatar. We haven't got the answer to that question yet. Instead he tweets and says – Trstenik on the line and sends pictures from the protest. Let's move on. One of those who just yelled, Balša Bozovic says – Goran Vesic has been blocking Slavija for a year and a half because of the fuel price, so when he can, so can you. If this isn't support, I don't know what support is. It was just a question -- where did he tweet this, was it from Maldives or Belgrade? Sasa Jankovic tweets – as I read the first work text of the future lustration law, just to say this – people who are being punished by this regime for things like today's protest will be rehabilitated. So he announces rehabilitation one day when he comes to power, but fortunately there's nothing of it. He'll never come to power. Let's move on, Bosko Obradovic - a greeting from the Circle in Preljina for all political lunatics across Serbia who have shown civil courage and dignity today. About Marija Janjusevic, "Nina Media", a colleague also said earlier that he was sending a picture on the Latin, I do not want to read what she "tweeted", but that is the Cyrillic protector who tweets on the Latin. So that's the same crew, that's that sad gathering right there sitting across from us. They're all the same in this regard, the same political attitude they took. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38894	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or representatives of the authorised parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the meetings of Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Marjanović. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, along with the Assembly of the 7th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, you have also received the proposed agenda. The following agenda is set: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Original Books, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Agency, Proposal for a Law on Payments of Employees in Public Agency and Other Organizations, established by the Republic of Serbia, Autonomous Province or Units of Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Minorities, Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law of the European Law on Local Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Officials and the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Officials of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Europeans, on the Law of the Laws of the Nationals of the Nationals, the Europeans, the Republic of the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament and the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliaments, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Article 170 and Articles 192, 193 and 201. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed... (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) )......................................................................................................... to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on... (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Law on Law on Public Agencys, Proposal for a Law on Payments of Employees in Public Agencys and Other Organizations established by the Republic of Serbia, Autonomous Province or a Unit of Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of Minorities, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Protection of Freedom of National Minorities, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, Proposal for the Law on the Amendments of the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for the Law on the Laws of the European Law on Local Self-Government on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Officials of the Law to take part to take part to take part to take part in the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofSerbia, Who was looking for the Rules of Procedure? Vojislav Seselj and Marko Djurisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the acceptance of this proposal would violate Article 157. The Rules of Procedure, which says the National Assembly can carry out a joint principled search on several draft laws that are conditional on each other or are mutually linked to them. We have laws on local self-government, state administration, parent books, public agencies, public agency employees' salaries, national minority councils and various other bill proposals, and then the choice of governors and vice governors, and the election of the president of courts. Explain to me, how is it possible that these agenda points are mutually conditioned or that solutions are connected? This is just a way to avoid a serious debate about any point. The representatives of a ministry representing nearly 10 laws, headed by Minister Ruzic, came here. We don't have one yet, and we need to talk about the Presidents of the Court. How is it possible to conduct a single debate? Of course, you can do anything because you have enough votes and I know you can do anything, but I don't know how long you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38896	Thank you. I can't answer that because it's on the menus.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38897	Have the Proposer answer. He's a doctor of legal science, he'd easily answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38898	You said article 157, right? Do you want us to vote in the sense that I hurt Article 157?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38899	Well, you hurt yourself because you allowed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38900	Okay, so we'll vote. There is no disposition to allow or not to allow, the member is very clear. One of the MPs is proposing and at the vote, you say whether you accept or do not accept it. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38901	I also wanted to point to Rule 157, so I can't put the same member in the Rules of Procedure. I know so much about the Rules of Procedure. But you under Rule 27, based on this argument you've given, I must say, you're looking after the application of this Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure state how the proposals are put to a decision before the MPs. You cannot say it. It is not for me to decide what the Messengers will say about. You are obliged to make all the proposals that come here before the MPs that they comply with the Rules of Procedure. This proposal is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and you cannot say – if MPs decide, what can I do. Next time, MPs will say it's Friday even though it's Tuesday. What if all MPs decide, or most that today is Friday, does that mean that it is really Friday? It is not Friday, and this proposal cannot be put before the MPs because it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure. If the Rules of Procedure aren't good, as we've been listening to for years, you've had a chance to change it. In this way you want to prevent us from having a discussion on these laws, but also on the proposals for the election that you have proposed, that is, the President of the Republic and the Assembly Committees, on an illegal proposal for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which did not come under the law by the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information. In this way, you are preventing a debate for just one day of work more than this congregation would have had if you had not applied this force today, and this way you would have re-evaluated the work of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38902	Thank you. You've just made up what I said, lucky we have a record, so I don't mind showing the record that I didn't say what I care or what I can do about it right now. The conduct and appeal to Article 27 does not mean the application of force by the President or the Chairman, so I now forbid MPs to propose and use the possibility set out in Article 157(2). So you have a little flexible understanding of article 27. I can't do everything. But it doesn't matter. You reported and quoted Article 27 only to avoid repeating the objection to the implementation of Article 157. The word is Bosko Obradović. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38903	Article 97 The President-in-Office, I would therefore like to call on the possibilities given to us by Article 97, which clearly states in Section 3. - The president, or representative of the parliamentary group before the opening of the search, which I am doing, has the right to propose a longer search period for the parliamentary groups than the time set out in Article 1, which states that in the basic procedure the total time of the debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours. Well, let me explain. You now have this possibility of a business to give us a simple more real time dispute in this extremely important, and in many of the quality laws. So I see no reason not to extend the debate, because it is really important issues, and it is amazing and impossible to discuss in one time every MP's speech on such broad issues as local self-government, the choice of governors and vice governors of the National Bank, the election of the President of the Courts, laws concerning national minorities, official use of language and letters. Here, as soon as I list it, you yourself are somewhere aware that this is seven, eight different topics, completely different social areas, completely different specific political and other issues, and that it is really inappropriate and contrary to the spirit of this Rules of Procedure to transfer it to a unique search and thus a completely shortened time to discuss such important issues. I think it is in the interest of national minorities in Serbia, that it is in the interest of all those interested in local self-government, interests all citizens, because they live in local self-governments, that we have more time, that we can have a quality debate, that we can cross arguments, and yet I say it is very high-quality laws where there is something to praise, and there are things to be found that are critical. So I think it would show an extremely good will if you would expand the time of the debate, because it's really inappropriate for us to narrow down the possibilities for discussion in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38904	Thank you. So, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you're a little sooner than the order of the actions we have to do, you suggested that we extend the time of debate. We'll wait a little while for the vote on your proposal. So, let's get back to the merger debate. Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote on a merger debate. I'm closing the vote: for the vote, on one screen I have 126, on the other I have nothing. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. I'm putting the motion to merge the debate and I'm asking you to show me the results here. I'm asking the service to come here. There's nothing on the board, and now the board's gone out. There he is. It's okay. Finalising vote: for – 131 MPs. I don't have a screen against, or a abstention. I don't know what this is about. The system doesn't recognize against and abstention, what to do. [[After a break.]] Please, for rehearsal, to determine the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, we have 140 MPs present. I'm putting the motion to unify the dots. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – eight abstentions – there is no vote, 12 MPs did not vote. We're going to work on the agenda. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MEP Bosko Obradovic to set a longer time for the debate on the proposed agenda, i.e. the united points. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for –14, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 144 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 170(1), Article 192(3) and Article 201. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Official Rights, Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Public Administration and Other Organizations established by the Republic of Serbia, Autonomous Province or Local Self-Government Units, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for the Republic of Serbia's of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia's. Does the promoter, Minister Branko Ruzic, want to explain his proposal? This applies to other authorised representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38906	Thank you. Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have nine laws before you, nine draft laws that represent the continuation of our efforts to reform the administration into a more efficient, more professional, more modern service of citizens of Serbia. The reform of public administration, as you probably know or one of the three cariatic pillars of our European integration, even though it is a commitment and a commitment to the Public Administration Strategy, but also a commitment to the realisation of our foreign policy goal. We view public administration reform above all as something we do too much because of the interest and in the interests of our citizens and creating a better environment for life and better living standards in the Republic of Serbia. That is why we are proposing solutions that contribute to better work of local self-government units, greater participation of citizens in policy-making, more efficient work of officials, more improved conditions for achieving the rights and positions of members of national minorities and further reform of the wage system with a view to a fairer remuneration of public sector employees. The amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government began in 2013 and due to frequent changes in the ministry itself and due to some election cycles, these changes have not yet been made. For this law, the formal public hearing procedure was conducted at the end of 2016 and early 2017. The draft law was sent to the Government in early September 2017. Despite a very long or relatively long and consulting, inclusive process, we and representatives of local self-government units have carried out another round of consultations at the beginning of this year, because this law neither the ministry nor the local self-government units of course nor the professional public are waiting very long. The amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government are important because they bring about changes in the way of determining the competence of local self-government units, in the work of the Assembly, municipal councils and administrations, improve the mechanism of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, reform the functioning of local communities and strengthen inter-municipal co-operation. One of the most significant changes is to conduct a public debate in the process of drawing up a decision on the budget, in the part of planning investments, although some municipalities and cities of Serbia are already doing so and using some of the means of communication, to consult citizens, our urgency is to make it an obligation of all local self-government, because the funds in the budgets are the means of all citizens and have the right to participate in decisions on how to invest and what to spend them on. At the same time, it is important to note that in the field of participation, we have proposed that the number of citizens' signatures needed to launch a citizens' initiative is fixed unlike the previous solution, so it is fixed to five percent of the total number of citizens with voting rights on the territory of the local self-government unit. We also propose to amend the concept of determining the authority of the municipality and the city, by no longer listing in the law the jobs already carried out by local self-government units under the Constitution and specific sectoral laws. Part of the proposed changes in front of you also relate to removing shortcomings in the functioning of units of local self-government, and therefore we propose, e.g. Invoking a meeting of the Assembly or of the City within a minimum period of 24 hours in order to avoid abuse or abuse that previously occurred with an inappropriately short term of convening these sessions. Also, we want to optimise the number of municipal and mayoral assistants, as well as local council members, by binding them on the scales for the number of residents in those units of local self-government. So, for example. The municipalities that have up to 15,000 inhabitants can have one assistant president, up to 50,000 inhabitants – two, up to 100,000 – three, and among others there are up to five assistants. This amendment, and I must stress it, takes effect after the adoption of this law, but from the next local elections when they are called. In a similar principle, we have also led by defining the maximum number of members of the council, and if the unit of local self-government has up to 15,000 inhabitants, the maximum number of council members is five, up to 50,000 is seven, 100,000 is nine, and the rest are not over 11 council members. This is primarily driven by intensity to improve both economics and optimise the functioning of local authorities. When it comes to the local community, it has been a tendency for local communities to be places where problems will be recognised, to discuss the needs of citizens, and to propose to improve the position of the local community and relations with the municipality or the city, to somehow return the old outlines of what the local communities were, but in the new environment and to compare it with real needs because, in this previous period, the local communities have practically become a wizard in the sky or on earth. A very important newspaper is in strengthening community co-operation through the concept of joint performance of all the works of municipalities and cities that are of interest to citizens, especially where there is no or no capacity to carry out certain tasks, such as communal, inspection and the like. Also, regarding this section of the law that we have proposed the Council of Europe is as an international organisation, as you know with 47 members, if I am not mistaken, committed to preserving democracy, human rights, rule of law and other important issues, one of the most important documents of the Council of Europe is the European Charter of Local Self-Government, whose principles practically and rests our Law on Local Self-Government, and the protocol that was drawn up with this European Charter confirms our path towards empowering democratic principles, above all in terms of the participation of citizens as I have previously said in the affairs of local authorities. The Republic of Serbia has certainly recognised this importance, both the Charter and the Protocol, and today it is before us and the Law on the Confirmation of this Additional Protocol, given that its Article 5 provides for the obligation of confirmation in the Member State after the Member State has signed the protocol. Unbound for us as legislators, but I would certainly like to refer to the proposal of Members who have been authorised to propose amendments to the Law on Territorial Organization. It is the MPs Kovacevic, Laketić, Mihajlovic and Radenkovic where they proposed, and we from the ministry gave a positive opinion that the two cities in Serbia get status, the two municipalities in fact in Serbia get the status of the city, with the argument that is quite meaningful, that it is the last municipalities that are the center of the district, the administrative districts, and that they do not have the status of the city, and I think that this is also very important in terms of correction, I would say injustice, and also in the light of the awareness of the MPs that this is necessary. When we talk about greater participation of citizens in policy-making, it is logical to mention both nuanced changes and additions in the Law on State Administration which are also the subject of today's sessions, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have for a long time been practicing public consultation at the earliest stage of draft law, and in such practice we wanted to commit all the other state authorities, and thus further achieve open dialogue, co-operation, partnership, public interest with the authorities of the state administration. In addition to that, of course, we are bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Resolution of this House on Legislative Policy, the Strategy for Public Administration Reform, the Code of Good Administration of the Council of Europe, the Lisbon Treaty and many other documents, I think that we are also bound by the personal responsibility of each of us who works in the administration and whose services are paid by taxpayers, i.e. Serbian citizens. As part of the public administration reform, we seek further modernisation of work, faster and easier to exercise citizens' rights, without unnecessary costs and bulky procedures. The parent books are therefore very important as basic official records of our citizens, and they are the starting basis for the exercise of a variety of rights, as they represent the source of data needed in the proceedings before other bodies. In this sense, the improvement of the register of parent books is a project launched by the current Prime Minister Ana Brnabic as the then minister of state administration and local self-government. It has now been my honor to bring this job to an end right through the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Parent Books. The most significant amendment proposed by this law is the establishment of a register of parent books, so that all parent books will be conducted in electronic form, with the retention of paper form, allowing maximum safety, accuracy and reliability of the parent book management system. This, in practice, means that all documentation required to enter a particular fact into the parent book will be submitted by electronic means, and on the other hand, by the Ministry of Interior, the other authorities will be able to use data from the parent books electronically for the purposes of their administrative procedures. In this part, I would also mention the newspaper that DKP’s parent books, i.e. diplomatic and consular representations, will be an integral part of the register of parent books, and the publication of birth certificates in these presentations will allow our diaspora to come more easily to its documents, unlike the previous period, when they waited several months to obtain these public documents for themselves. Coming back to local self-government, I must, first of all, mention that over 98% of the parent books have already been transferred, in conclusion with the May moon, if I am not mistaken, this year, in electronic form, and that this is a major venture, which has practically allowed us to do all this and thanks to the parent services that have worked in local self-government units. In addition, it is important to note that the proposed changes allow representatives of national minorities to volunteer to enter national membership in the birth certificate. The right to enroll on nationality is achieved by a statement given on the record before the competent parent, and the giving of this statement will also be possible in front of the healthcare professional who is doing, of course, the child's birth. Of course, to underline, for both the public and citizens of national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, the input of data on nationality depends solely on the will of parents or the will of a full-time adult who can be determined to delete, change or sign it unless it has been previously entered. Also, the adaptation of half-born identity and legal recognition and facts fall within the sphere of constitutionally guaranteed protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, including the right to dignity and the free development of personality. Therefore, the proposal for a new legal solution introduced the possibility of registering gender change in the birth certificate based on a medical certificate. This certainly creates assumptions for the achievement of legal certainty, i.e. other rights and legal interests of persons who have changed gender, and in this way we are implementing affirmative measures in accordance with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which was also adopted in this House, if I am not mistaken, some 2008 or 2009, creating a normative framework to prevent the inequality of transgender persons and to accept gender diversity as an integral part of modern, European society. For the purpose of rational and effective work in the management of home books and the exercise of citizens' rights, one of the newspapers also refers to the regulation of criteria for the education of parent areas, which will be governed by a sublegal act, taking particular account of human, technical capacity, but of course also of other conditions. What is also important, the application of this law will not cause additional costs for the state and citizens. On the contrary, by providing faster and more accessible services to end-users, it will also allow large savings. Dear People's MPs, you have before you the amendments and additions of the Law on Public Agencys and the Bill of Salaries in Public Agencys and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province or the Unit of Local Self-Government, which are part of the reform process announced by the Public Administration Reform Strategy and in accordance with the strategy of the aim of establishing the relevant regulations what is most important, a coherent system of labour relations and salaries for public sector employees in order to organise work relations and wages in public services, state bodies, autonomous provinces, units of local self-government and public agencies. Other reasons for amending the provisions relating to directors and board members and employees resulting from the action plan for negotiating Chapter 23. The judiciary and fundamental rights are important from the point of view of preventing conflicts of interest and the risk of corruption. In this connection, we proposed two key changes – the introduction of mandatory electoral procedure and selection of candidates in the public competition, since the Agency's employees were subject to the Labour Act, which did not provide for the obligation to implement these competitions and to define more precisely and more precisely the conditions and criteria for the appointment of members of the administrative board and directors of public agencies and those who are in V.D. In order to strengthen expertise, the conditions for the appointment of a person to the board of directors have been changed, so that a person who has at least nine years of working experience in public agency work or five years of working experience on these jobs can be appointed in those places when it comes to the agency established by local self-government. In order to prevent conflicts of interest, the term of office of board members and directors shall be limited to five years and shall be determined to be re-appointed at the latest twice. I note, so far there have been no restrictions in this regard. It is prescribed that a person appointed as director of a public agency cannot be a member of the political party's body. The amendments to the law abolished the possibility of using excess income over expenditure to increase employees' salaries, has already been defined and said it will be used exclusively for the development of the agency itself or to return to the founder's budget. In accordance with the Public Sector Payments System Act, the Law on Public Agency Salaries and Other Organisations, established by the Republic of Serbia, Autonomous Province or the Local Self-Government Unit and this Act, which would apply since 2019, would result in the harmonisation of the basic pay elements of employees in these legal entities with the Public Sector Payments System Act, which was adopted in this House in 2016, and thus the harmonisation of the legal position of employees throughout the public sector. According to the proposed law, the profit-finding regime by the employer, based on the elements of the Labour Act, is converted into a system of defining salaries of employees by principle and based on elements applicable to other parts of the public sector. Exceptions to which this law will not apply stem from the adopted Law on Public Sector Payments System. Dear People's MPs, the fact that 13% of Serbian citizens represent representatives of national minorities is certainly one of our country's greatest valuables and therefore we also propose a set of system laws in minority rights, whose changes and additions make significant progress in achieving the human and minority rights of members of national minorities. It is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, as the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities go two ways. First of all, editing the right to enter data on the national membership of members of national minorities in public documents, official records and personal data collections, which required, of course, access to amendments and additions to the Law on Parent Books, which I was talking about earlier, to edit the way in which the data on nationality is entered in the birth certificate. The second direction is to establish the basis for prescribing affirmative measures for national minorities through the introduction of provisions in specific laws governing the working legal status of public sector employees, which will allow the principle of positive discrimination against national minorities' representatives in employment or lay down under the same conditions, and until they reach the appropriate structure of public sector employees at all levels of territorial organisation. In fact, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters only takes certain decisions from the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in order to ensure consistency and unity of the legal order and mutual compliance of these two laws, which provide that the names of bodies exercising public authority, the name of units of local self-government of inhabited places, squares, streets and others in local self-government units in which the percentage of members of a certain national minority in the total population in that territory reach 15% according to the results of the last census. Therefore, they are also printed in the language of the national minority concerned. It is also suggested that every MP who belongs, or is a member of a national minority, have the right to address in this House in his own language in the National Assembly. The last draft law I would like to talk about today is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils in which they took part, in addition to representatives of the competent ministries, state bodies, authorities of the province, and representatives of national councils, so to speak, at all stages of national councils, but of course also national councils separate from the Bosniak, Bunjeva, Hungarian, Romanian and Slovak national minorities, with the constant presence and delivery of expert opinions of the Council of Europe Advisory Committee. The draft law more precisely regulates the issue of the use and availability of the property of the National Councils, powers and duties of the President and members of the Executive Board of the National Councils. It is therefore important to note that it is provided that the President of the National Council, as well as a member of the Executive Board of the National Council, cannot be a member of the political party’s governing bodies, and that it cannot be elected or appointed as a person in the national authority, the circuit body, or the body of the local self-government unit, which, within the limits of its competence, decides on issues concerning the work of the national councils. I would also particularly point out, given that this year is an election year and I am really taking the opportunity to invite all members of the national minorities to take as widely as possible participation in this process. We expect these elections to be held at the end of October or in early November of the month, and to make the most of the law, which treats this issue, take advantage of those rights. It is therefore important that we also edit a special list of national minorities by amending and supplementing this law and provide for solutions that will facilitate the keeping of the list under official duty. Namely, it is envisaged that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which is competent, shall download data from the single electoral list required to update and make changes under official duty in the special electoral list and that particularly sensitive data are processed in accordance with the law and that any change to be made is made by an individual solution. A large part of the amendments and additions to the current law also relate to the financing of the work of national councils, the spending of funds, especially those from public sources, so from the Republic budget, the province's budget or the budget of units of local self-government, as well as solutions that provide transparency in spending and financial discipline, thus harmonising the provisions of this law with the systemic solutions that exist in the legislation governing public finances. I am convinced that, indeed, through joint work, we have managed to prepare solutions that will contribute to the greatest extent possible to a better, more efficient, faster achievement of minority rights, further activities in bringing state institutions closer to citizens, creating conditions for more motivated, more professional officials, and, finally, more quality services provided by the administration to citizens. I'm using, of course, the opportunity to thank all my associates and the secretary of state, the assistants, without whom these laws, of course, would not be quite possible in this capacity and this way prepared themselves. And at the end of this opening presentation, let me thank you for your attention, if it took a little longer, but it is nine legislative proposals that are very important, plus this one that the MPs have proposed, which is also very important. And, of course, to take the opportunity to express hope that both in the debate in principle and in the debate in particular, we will get some constructive proposals that are certainly welcome, which, I'm sure, if they are too much, and do not violate the intensity of the laws themselves, we will consider, some of them also accept. And, to express hope that after that, in the voting day, we will accept and vote all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38907	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word has a representative of the motionary Ivan Jovičić, an election member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38908	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as members and vice-president of the High Council of the judiciary, is an honor and a pleasant duty to explain the proposals of the candidates for the Presidents of the Court, which the High Council of Justice made at its session held on 26 March 2018. Namely, in Official Messenger RS No 104/17 of 22 November 2017 and in the daily Politika of 21 November 2017, the VSS announced the election of a president for six courts in the Republic of Serbia for the Administrative Court, the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, the Court of Appeal in Nis, the Court of First Instance in Novi Pazar and the Criminal Court in Obrenovac. The High Council of the Court of Justice has established the ability of candidates to conduct and organise cases in court on the basis of a rule on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges in a permanent judicial capacity in a second or higher court and on criteria for proposing candidates for the President of the Court. On the basis of Article 11 of the above-mentioned Regulation, the VSS has firstly educated the Commission for the Election of the President of the Courts, which consisted of three members of the VSS in the order of the Judges, and then the VSS decided on the extraordinary evaluation of the candidates who applied for the election for presidents of the abovementioned courts. The VSS Commission has evaluated for the election the ability of candidates to manage and organise cases in court based on the programme of work and talks with the candidate. Afterwards, the VSS Commission set out final estimates for all candidates and submitted a previous list of candidates in the proposal procedure. At the same time, the VSS also obtained an opinion on candidates from a session of all the judges of the court proposed to elect a president. On the basis of Article 13, indent 4. The VSS Act, and in relation to Article 70. At a session held on 26 March 2018, the Law on Judges of the VSS established a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and to elect six candidates by proposing the election of the President of the Administrative Court by Jelena Ivanovic, judge and acting as President of the Administrative Court. Dusko Milenkovic, judge of the Supreme Cassation Court and acting as President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, proposes to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. Dubravka Damjanovic, judge and acting president of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, proposes to elect the president of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal. Dragan Jocic, judge of the Supreme Cassation Court and acting as President of the Court of Appeal in Nis, proposes to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in Nis. Ana Pejcinovic, judge of the New Pazar Basic Court, proposes to elect the president of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar and Suncic Savic, the court judge in Belgrade, proposes to elect the president of the Belgrade Criminal Court. Detailed biographies of all proposed candidates are given in the Proposal for a decision of the High Council of the judiciary. They're an integral part of your materials that you've already met. Since I would not like to waste your precious time, I would just like to point out, that these are extremely experienced judges who have proven themselves in the management and management of the court, with exceptional biography, that the judges of which are most of them, first of all, Judge Jelena Ivanovic, Judge Duško Milenković, Judge, Dubravka Damjanović and counterpart Dragan Jocic, who is also the judge of the Supreme Cassation Court, were the presidents of the courts for which they submitted the candidacy. All I have to do is thank you for your attention and invite you to support all proposals of the High Council of Justice in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38909	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The floor is proposed by the National MP Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38910	Thank you, Chairman. I will, on behalf of my fellow MPs with whom I have tabled a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Territorial Organization, talk about the reasons for which we were led when we proposed this amendment. The amendments to this law are contained in Article 16 establishing municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, as well as in Article 20, which determines the cities. By adopting these changes, the municipality of Bor and Prokuplje will receive the status of the city. I was born and lived in Bora, so it was my honor to introduce my fellow Members to Bora today, through his history and through today. I will also talk about Prokuplje, with the same pride, because the citizens of Prokuplje, as well as the citizens of Bora, have long awaited this moment. Bor is located in a region called Timočka Krajina and is surrounded by many picturesque places, such as Banjsko polje, Brestovočka Banja, Borsko lake. With its modern architecture and urbanity, it takes a very important place in European modern construction. The Bor municipality is located in the far east of Serbia, near the border with Bulgaria and Romania. Territorially, it belongs to the Borski District, occupying an area of 856 km square. The municipality of Bor is also the administrative headquarters of the Borsko district, which, apart from Bor, make up the municipalities of Kladovo, Majdanpek and Negotin. The most significant part of the history of this region is related to the findings of copper ore and other metals. Other important specificities of the municipality, apart from the industrially developed environment, are natural conditions for the development of tourism. Under the woods is 37.1% of the municipality's territory, with habitats of various fauna. The heights of the Black Summit, the Table, the Dubašnica hunting grounds, the complex of the zlotski caves, that is, the Lazar cave, with extraordinary cave decorations, springs of mineral and medicinal water. On this basis, numerous accommodation, recreation and other infrastructure facilities have been built. Among cultural and historical values are certain facilities in the Brestovo Banja, 12km away from Bora. There is Konek Knez Miloš from the first half of the 19th century, the Prince's Castle, as well as the 1856 Castle of Aleksandr Karadjordjevic, built in a romantic-renaissance style. I have to say that a small environment in these areas where the discovery of natural wealth resulted in such root transformations of economic and social life. Since the name Bora entered the historic scene, economic prosperity has been achieved in an impressive way. Since the mining colony from the beginning of the last century, Bor has grown into the centre of mining and metallrucal production of European importance. In the spheres of consciousness and culture, where it sometimes takes centuries to reverse, there have also been extraordinary changes. As a result, the opening of the mines for the whole region had the significance of what we call revolutions have for the biggest shifts in society. Bor worked and developed rapidly, as a strong industrial and mining centre attracted people from all parts of the former state. Many of them here started families and are considered old Borans. There are Serbs, Vlach, Macedonians, Roma, Slovenians, Hungarians, Romanians, Albanians, Bulgarians, Russians, Montenegrins in all, 32 nations. After hundreds of years of copper products, outdated melting technology has given citizens of Bor municipality major problems due to polluted air. On December 22, 2014, a new solvent and sulphuric acid factory began to work, making us an ecologically clean environment. It will be remembered that the government then led by Aleksandar Vukic has allowed the Borans to breathe completely clean air instead of air polluted sulfur dioxide. From this distance, I can freely say that it is the most humane act in favor, first of all, of our children. Now tourists are coming to Bor. In the past season, we have seen a significant increase in visitors. The pine leaves a striking impression. People are friendly, its environment is unrepeated, attractive, with a unique natural ambience that offers opportunities for almost all tourist-recreative content. Lake Borsko is an ideal place for rest, recreation, preparation of athletes, fishing. The depth is an oasis of untouched nature and one of the most attractive hunting grounds of high savages. The table is a favorite meeting place for hikers, hikers and fans of extreme sports. The Black Summit is known for its most valuable and qualitative beech forests in this part of Europe. It's an ideal place for mountain tourism. Lazarus Canyon is a natural phenomenon. It is placed in the richest habitats of the plant and animal world. Because of the rare species found in it, it is a constant challenge for environmentalists and researchers. The Zlotski cave system, in a speleological sense, is one of the most beautiful in Serbia. Brestovica Banja belongs to Europe's most important thermo-mineral waters, and its healing has been established in the first half of the 19th century. During that century, it was under the direct age of Serbian rulers and Obrenovic and Karadzic. She enjoyed the status of one of Serbia's two pine spas. Almost all of the objects formed in the 19th and early 20th centuries, by the clitory of famous people, represent monuments of the culture of the national rank. Another significant feature is the Technical Faculty in Bor. It's the University of Belgrade. It was founded in 1961 and the first university was located outside the Belgrade University headquarters. Bor has been a city of great dynamics in recent years. Traffic and beautiful boulevards, new playgrounds, sports grounds, as well as one of the nicer zoos in Serbia were arranged. The renovated airport has been re-trained for civilian traffic. One of the main tourist attractions in a short time became a cafe in the cave, where organised tourist tours and excursions from all parts of Serbia come for coffee half a mile underground. The old surface spear, as Europe's largest artificial dent, also lures a growing number of visitors. The complex around the sports center has received new contents. In the immediate vicinity there is a hypodrom, a balloon hall, a skateboard park, a map trail. Tourists have been provided accommodation facilities in several locations, in a luxuriously renovated hotel on Lake Borski, the RTB club in Brestovočka Banja, as well as in hotels in the city itself. This time I appeal to Gazprom, which is the majority owner of the hotel complex at the Black Summit, to reconsider the possibility of ending this complex or finding a new purpose that would suit the company's needs. I am sure that there is a way that facilities that cost close to 60m euros are preserved from further collapse and that Gazprom is finding its interest and launching this project. Modern and new good is traditional. It is not necessary to miss the construction ventures of French architecture from the beginning of the last century, which represent a unique masterpiece of works of construction that still testify today as monuments of a culture built by buildings from that period. It is the largest unique mining colonial settlement in Europe. Bor inspires and inspires artists. Celebrated names of local cinematography have been recorded in Bor for half a century with a film camera. Many announce arrival in Bor. The pine is open to new investments. Today's biggest investment is the opening of another mine, and this project will employ 1,000 workers. A few words about the Buyout. Prokuplje is the largest municipality and headquarters of the Toplica Management District, located in southern Serbia, in the central Balkans area. The thermal administrative district covers the area along the administrative line with KIM and plays a significant role in the security sense. The municipality of Prokuplje takes up an area of 759 km square and the municipality makes up a total of 107 settlements. The geographical location and configuration of the terrain have conditioned that the most significant mid-Balkan transferzala linking the Black Sea to the Adriatic Sea goes to Toplica via KIM, making the shortest link between the Moravsko-Vardar Valley and the Adriatic Sea, a road of exceptional importance for this part of the country. With EU financial support, it is expected to complete the construction of the E80 highway by 2020, the Nis-Merdare section, whose route is now passing through Prokuplje, which will certainly increase the attractiveness and have a positive impact on the economic activity in this municipality. The area of the municipality of Prokuplje extends to 75,896 hectares, of which agricultural land takes 45,083 hectares and 60%, forest 26.895 hectares or 35% and infertile land only 5%. Of the total area of agricultural land, even 81.6% or 36.79 hectares are processed areas. In this area is extremely rich water potential reflected through thermal underground and liquid waters, as well as artificial dams with a certain water capacity. It is the Bresnica dam, dam on the Rastovnica River and wells in a location called Hisar. In addition to the waters of three famous spas located in the territory of the municipality of Kursumli, Lukovska, Prolom and Kursumliska Banje, in the Toplica River, where the whole area was named, numerous other thermal springs are poured in. Near Prokuplje in Gubetinski livada there is a thermal source of the dry tap. Forest wealth is an extremely important natural resource in this area. The Municipality of Prokuplje is characterized by a rich historical heritage. At the foot of Hisar is the church of St. Prokopi, one of the oldest Orthodox temples in the Balkans. Prokuplje is also a well-known sports centre, whose athletes were the bearers of world, Olympic and European medals. There are numerous sports competitions held in Prokuplje, the most significant among them are the international tennis tournaments and the jujijjci competition attended by the most prominent European representatives of this sport. Of the tourist potentials is the most important modern observatory located at the top of the Vidojevica mountain, at an altitude of 1,155 m. In 2003, the Ministry of Science decided to finance the construction of the facility, based on scientists' explanation that Vidojevica is the best astro-meteorological conditions in Serbia. A small thermal transverse, a 22km walking trail, forms a space that connects beautiful thermal mountains: Velika Jastrac, Pasjaca, Vidojevica, Rgajska Mountain, Radan, Sokolovica and Arbanaška Mountain. The heat-transverse mostly coincides with the E7 European pedestrian route whose two arms pass through the Toplice. A small thermal transversal annually visits thousands of hikers and nature lovers from all over Serbia and abroad. For the economy of the municipality of Prokuplje is certainly the most significant Leoni, except for small and medium-sized enterprises. Leoni Group is the leading internationally recognised producer of wires, optical fibers, cables and cable systems. During 2014, a factory in Malošište near Nis opened, and a new factory in Nis opened in August 2017. In all the plants in southern Serbia, owned by Leoni, close to 7,000 workers were employed. The Leoni Filipps Division, which employs about 350 workers, also operates in Prokuplje, and a new Bizlink plant has recently been opened, providing 500 jobs. Dear citizens of Bora and Prokuplje, this status change in our environment will make cities, and it is up to you and us to fight together to make our cities grow, to make them as beautiful and orderly as possible for us to live in them. We have what's most important, and that's the support of the people who run this country. For all that Bor and the Cup are and all that they need to become, I call on all fellow Members of Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38911	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38912	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected representatives of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality discussed in the principle of three draft laws relating to the rights of national minorities, and this – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. For the Republic of Serbia, it is a matter of minority rights and freedom of great importance. Serbia is a multiethnic state, and any improvement in the legal framework guaranteeing these rights and freedoms is a clear message of the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly to build a society in which human rights and freedoms are guaranteed and provided. Also, this is important because we are candidates for EU membership, and in the negotiations for EU accession it is the chapters concerning human rights and freedoms, the rights of national minorities and all that falls under Chapter 23 and the decisive importance for the process of Eurointegration. Serbia has guaranteed its constitution special protection for national minorities, in order to achieve full equality and preserve their identity. We have ratified almost all international acts in this area, such as: the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. In addition to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the most important laws in this area are the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities and the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on National Minority Councils defines national councils closer and more precisely as organisations which are entrusted with certain public powers on specific issues in the fields of culture, education, communication and official use of language and letter, and in order to achieve the collective rights of the national minority in self-government in those areas. The subject of regulation is also issues of importance for the work and functioning of national councils, such as the issue of using the property of the National Council, issues relating to funding. Issues relating to the entry and erasure of national councils from the register are being regulated closer. In order to ensure the depolitisation of national councils, the issue of incompatibility of the functions of the president and members of the Executive Board of the National Council with membership of the political party's governing bodies is addressed. It is also important that members and other persons, who perform tasks for the national council, are given a working-law status, i.e. the possibility to establish a working relationship in the national council. The bill sets out very precisely the powers of the national council, both in nature and in certain areas. For example, the National Council may appeal to the Ombudsman, the circuit and local ombudsman and the other competent authority when it is assessed that there has been an infringement of the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights and freedoms of members of national minorities. The field of education provides for solutions relating to the participation of national councils in establishing the general foundations of pre-school programmes, curricula and primary and secondary education programmes, as well as the use of textbooks. In areas related to public intelligence and media work, it is predicted that the National Council can set up institutions and companies to exercise public information rights in the language of the national minority, i.e. the Foundation, in order to achieve a common useful objective of improving public information in the language of the national minority. When it comes to elections for national councils, the issue of a special voter list of national minorities is addressed, making it easier to keep the list on official duty. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the main objectives of the law are to achieve the proper representation of members of national minorities in the public sector, to extend the possibility of funding society and associations of national minorities and the obligation to protect the cultural, historical heritage of national minorities...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38913	Thank you, colleague. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, I would very much like to talk about Minister Ruzic's legal proposals, about candidates for the presidents of the courts, but I don't have time. For Jorgenka Tabakovic I was preparing for a month, an elaborate made, a book I will soon publish, and that is why every second is precious to me. Of course, I will challenge Jorgenka Tabakovic as a candidate for governor on the professional side. See for yourself, she boasts of a strong dinar. It cannot be a strong dinar when the economy is weak, but the dinar has formally jumped almost 5% compared to the euro. Why is that? With our economy, a dinar would have to fall 1% a year to stimulate exports, not imports. Thanks to this rate of dinar, our imports are 5% cheaper. Importers are encouraged to import and to destimulate exporters. But first, I'll start talking about her moral character, so I don't miss something, and then I'll continue with my professional remarks on how to conduct Serbia's monetary policy, because that policy is not being run properly. It's not hard to keep the dinar course. You always do that when you don't print a new money show. That everyone knows who graduated from economic college, should know. But we need to encourage the economy, because monetary policy is one of the most important economic policy assets in the world. Who's Jorgenka Tabakovic? She was a long-standing MP for the Serbian Radical Party and Minister for the Government of National Unity since March 1998 and 2000. As party president, I had the right then to propose our prominent activists to boards of directors in all public enterprises where we had a number of places, in public institutions, etc. Believe me, I've been a member of five of these boards of directors and there's no money being won anywhere. I went to science and high school. I didn't even get a dinar for it, it was from pure enthusiasm. I proposed that Jorvanka Tabakovic be a privatisation minister, because of her expertise, be a member of the management board of Telecom, after that famous privatisation, when the government was able to sell 49% of Telecom before us for about a billion and a half marks, which was an extremely good job. We wanted to have an expert member to control how it works, how it deals with co-owners, Greeks, Italians, how money is spent from that sale, etc. What did Jorgenka Tabakovic do? As a member of the board of directors that the government has delegated, although it was also a member of the MP and minister, she took a job at Telecom, and it was an extraordinary job, and that no one in the party knew it, and I see it from her biography for the first time today. Then she secured herself a large apartment, and it was cunningly, in Novi Sad, so that there were no eyes in Belgrade and stayed there to work even after the term of office. So I'm talking about an immoral person who's unworthy of being governor. I tried my best in the Serbian government to control our ministers, so they wouldn't get into any malfeasance. We used to attack socialists, even more JULs, because of all kinds of malfeasances, and I wanted to maintain absolute control over our ministers. Of course, what we've attacked before, socialists, these are children's games towards dosmania malversions, and even adversaries are not flawed about it. But I'm not talking about it today. And I managed to save it. The first time Rada Trajkovic did something wrong, then became a traitor, was exposed from the minister's post, wanted to extend her own brother through the party, to be promoted from the municipal judge to the district court judge, she failed, and then went through JUL. Then it comes before me to the government and, of course, we block it and it runs out of ministerial and parliamentary space. One more made a mistake, and he was Minister of Ecology Branislav Blazic. He paid from the ministry's money for some country football club uniforms. It wasn't much of a deal, but in front of the entire Central Authority, I sharply criticized him for it. Until I went on a big service trip, I thought all the other ministers were sinless to us. And then from the government of Vojislav Kostunica, I get a police record. Three times they're giving me a warning that I can't use it anywhere except for a closed session of the UN tribunal. Of course, I prepare it immediately for the press and publish it. In another document, that Jorgvanka Tabakovic, as minister, made an agreement with a private firm, "Alexander", to buy vouchers for all employees in her ministry of various textile clothes, cannot remember the total amount now, and of course, a certain percentage of it was obtained privately. There's someone who doesn't believe me. Let them take my police record. The only minister in front of a radical in the Serbian government who was morally defamed was her. Let's move on as far as Jorgenka Tabakovic is concerned. Shut up now, please, Grouchy, my time is running out. In the Hotel "Maestral" in Przrno, 18 September 2014, an unknown person broke into the hotel room of Jorvanka Tabaković, where she was at a militant development forum. Jorgenka was on the fourth floor of the hotel and described in detail the man who broke into the room. She said she saw a dark shadow and then described every color on his dressing room and claimed he took his medicine bag and wanted to kill her, because she could have had a heart attack, so it looks like a natural death. Montenegrin police have informed the public that a 51-year-old petty offender Imer Kerkezi has been arrested for trespassing in Yorvanka's hotel room. Strange that he was well dressed to jump off the terrace from the fourth floor, not dressed, but dressed to jump from the fourth floor. It is true that Jorganko Tabakovic was followed by the Montenegrin service, that they knew that she had brought hundreds of thousands of euros to Budvo, it is said of half a million euros and that she intended to go from there to Rome to buy an apartment there for one of the daughters. After all, Jorgenka bought a daughter's apartment in Rome, and her son-in-law, Nemanja Sekiki, was appointed second secretary of the Embassy in Rome. Its monthly incomes are about four and a half thousand euros, only a thousand euros less than it is monthly at the expense of Jorgenka Tabakovic. Where did Jorgenki Tabakovic get half a million euros? Did she get it straight? Where did she get it? Where does that come from, so we can try it? Instead of being arrested then, she remained governor, continued to perform the post, and the president of the Republic re-proposed to continue to perform it. The apartment is still in Rome. He's still having trouble with that apartment, because the son-in-law looks like he got transferred to Trieste, so another apartment has to be bought in Trieste. The second daughter of Jorgevanka was also at the scene of the scandal when news came that the official RFZO vehicle, where she was employed, was driving from Novi Sad to Belgrade to pass the exams. Remember that affair? The papers were written. With Igor Becic, he was a sub-government at the time, I guess, if he had the post, he couldn't out-rule, in the 2012 election campaign, she traveled abroad for money, allegedly for the SNS. In Hungary, they had an accident and the police found them a full bag of euros. They called then Interior Minister Ivica Dacic and asked for help. He called a colleague in Hungary and Becic and Jordanka were released to Serbia with money. How did Becic manage to pass security checks to be proposed by the advances to the chairman of the Security Control Committee? I tried to prevent that choice, but he was forced. The Yorgovanka uncontrollably spends the money of the National Bank, buys foot coasters, leather vests for employees, you can think leather vests, come on leather underpants, and one to give for Meha Omerović, to make it safer in duty-free zones, then decorative lamps, provide gynological checks for all women employed in the National Bank. Maybe some man got the right to go for a gynaecological examination. She spent 87,000 euros on security and protocol uniforms. The 144-metre-square apartment was due to be paid for 40 years, but in 12 years it did not pay for any war, so Telecom, where an employee took over her debt and paid off 78,000 euros in Yorgovanka's debt. That was years ago. Miroslav Bogicevic, the owner of Farmacoma, has installed a 25m-euro loan at the ATP Bank. In that ATP bank, the Vojvodine Development Bank has had several more affairs, Milorad Mircic will talk to you about it, since he is a better version than I am. Jorvanka Tabakovic was a magistrate, I read her master's work, he was a quality, I published it in the magazine "Serbian Freedom Thought". But it's a time when she normally did her jobs and tried to be a real magistrate. In 2011, Jorvanka Tabakovic doctored at the Faculty of Service Business, Edukons University of Sremska Kamenica. Do you know what this university is famous for? Do you know? Rose, do you know? Well, that's where Tomislav Nikolic got his degree. There, Rose, you don't know. But you'll find out you're still young. I guess they gave a degree there and her personal friend Tomislav Nikolic. Of course, when Toma, who fell, Vukic became a chio-mio, she quickly transformed, now she's loyal to Vukic, until she chokes on Vukic, and then she'll ruin both our monetary policy and our economy when the Wolf starts falling, and someone from abroad is hiring for her jobs, because once she sells to someone, she'll always be, it's just the price. Her mentor was Milenko Dzeletovic, president of the Economic Council with you progressors. You know Mark Atlagic. Instead of being president of a scientific council and something, so you can control this, they put a man who writes other doctoral dissertations. But how? That's clever. He's not crazy now to waste days and nights writing dissertation. An analysis of the doctoral dissertation of Jorgvanka Tabakovic found that more than 20% of the text was plagiarized. Without a quote, she took over the works of her former co-worker at the National Bank, Nikola Tasic. You remember Nikola Tasic. Economist Mehmed Muric, do you know him? A very professional man, he knows how to write. Professor Lidija Barjaktarevic, known in financial circles as expert, Jasna Atanasijevic and other scientists. Furthermore, the Belgrade Court of Appeal ruled that banks do not have the right to charge clients for processing and monitoring of loans. The bank's secretary said the banks would not respect it, that they were not interested in the verdicts of our courts and that they would address the Strasbourg court. The National Bank didn't react, but the governor said they couldn't comment on the court rulings. The only governor in the Balkan spaces who has not solved the credit problem in the Swiss francs is Jorganka Tabakovic. All the others found some solutions and relatively satisfied those poor people who ran into the propaganda of the state authorities to be in charge of the Swiss francs. The VX promise made the other day to the people who took credit in Switzerland is a scandal. The courts are reportedly going to settle all cases by the end of October. Why aren't they up until now? Integrating the VKS in this way in solving the problem is a direct interference in the judicial branch of the government. All of the moves showed that Jorgvanka Tabakovic is in the interest of bankers, not Serbian citizens who use the most expensive loans in Europe. You know who's in charge of the citizens, he can hang himself later. As many citizens run out of roof over their heads, everything goes well, sells for a bogeyman, miracles happen. Jorvanka Tabakovic, in her own time, criticised Governor Šoškovic for inappropriately high wages, remember that? She promised to cut the salary and bring it down to 554,000 dinars. She said that her salary is proportionate to the function she performs, claimed that part of the salary would be directed towards humanitarian purposes, but also complained that she was working so hard that she had no time to spend money. Somehow she managed to buy a 40,000 dinar scarf, for example. When one walks those expensive 5,000-six thousand-euro bags, nobody mentions it anymore, it is common for her and Zorana Mihajlovic. Her salary is therefore higher than the salary of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the President of the VCC and the President of the Constitutional Court together. Furthermore, what is the state of finance in the state of Serbia? In bank balances run by Jorgovanka Tabakovic, at the end of 2017, 4.7 billion euros of financial resources available for sale, and banks have no one to place them with, as the economy is unable to continue borrowing, and citizens are burned by taking credit. At the end of 2013, it was 2.4 billion euros, and at the end of 2014, slightly more than three billion euros. So there's this amount of money growing that has nowhere to place, and that's death for the banking system. The amount of funding is best shown by the fact that the total action capital is 29 banks, at the end of 2017, so all banks in which foreigners are owners, more than 88%, 3.4 billion euros, and the total capital with reserves and unallocated profits of 5.6 billion euros. Therefore, 83% of the total capital of all banks is frozen in funds that have no one to place. More than three, nearly four billion euros in bank funds are in a mandatory deposit with the NBS. Is this a successful banking business in the country? Is that what encourages our economy? No, something is suffocating our economy. And who is that? In this case, above all, the governor, of course the finance minister, Vujovic, is certainly not innocent of it. About five billion euros were placed in the bank's accounts of the Republic of Serbia, including the Commercial Bank and the Post Office, although their founder is the same republic. I told you everything I thought about her moral character, if you gave me another 20 minutes, I'd give you the whole elaborate on her intricacies and the terrible condition she produced here. And that one day when it explodes, it's gonna be bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38915	Thank you. The right to replicate, first authorised SNS representative, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38916	Replica, the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, we had the opportunity to hear the exposure of an abandoned husband who simply couldn't make peace with someone that the woman had left. Well, that's what it looked like. When you use insults of a personal nature, you make up a story about millions, about apartments, about how a woman worked and was a member of the Management Board of Telecom, and she was actually a member of the Management Board of the Post Office of Serbia, then it looks like, as Mr. Seselj had the opportunity to talk for 20 minutes about the Governor of the National Bank. It is clear why you regret not being in your ranks, but it does not give you the right to insult both her dignity and the dignity of the National Assembly. If I were her, I'd really file an insult suit. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38917	Just a moment, Mr. Seselj, before you came forward Mr. Becic, since he was mentioned during your presentation. Wait a minute, I'll give you a replica. Here you go, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38918	Dear Chairman, I have said before that I will not react to the hatred that comes from this parliamentary group, but I would say that the previous speaker had the capacity to check the information he received from his associates, full of hatred for individuals from the SNS. I would ask him not to do it in the future, because it seems very bad to mention people who can't defend themselves, who aren't present, to say things in their own style that are easily verifiable, as in this case, that I've never had any kind of accident in Hungary. These are things that are easily checked out. In the end, I would only ask one more time not to rely on hateful associates, but rather to check the information they get from them, because this style, in this way, offends families, insults people. I think it's bad, and it doesn't look like a previous speaker, because that's not the way we remember him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38919	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Replica, MP Vojislav Seselj No, you have one. [[Vojislav Seselj: I have two replicas.]] You have two minutes. Don't waste your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38920	You know what, ma'am, you didn't answer here how Jorgenka Tabakovic got a job in 1999 when she was both a minister and a MP, and who called that contest, and how do I find out on the first day today? You don't answer how she transferred half a million euros abroad? How did she buy an apartment in Rome for her daughter and son-in-law? Come on, we're talking about concrete facts. What does it mean? She's not here? I don't care if she's not here. One more thing to tell you, that's an immoral personality, is the fact that she stole the SRS' parliamentary mandate. When someone resented her here, last time in the debate, she said she deserved that mandate, she thinks she deserved it, so who's sharing the mandates by merit, so you know who deserved it? Who shared that? They are all those who steal the mandates and this Shormaz who stole Kostunica, and that Marinika Tepic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Diana Vukomanovic, there are more. What was the name of the one sitting under Bosk? Now, let's take a look at that doctorate. Is that plagiarism or not? I commended her master's work, quality done. She's not stupid, she's not unprofessional, the problem is she's broken. As for Becic, we all know how he got his degree, we all know what crime he was in. I tried to prevent his choice, then I chaired as the oldest MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38921	Thank you, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38922	I'm answering now, Vienna. I've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38923	You can't. One replica, you know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38924	One on them two?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38925	One on them two, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38926	Well, they're kind of worth one, so it's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38927	That's the Rules of Procedure. We'll change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38928	I'm just surprised we're picking a deputy governor today, so we could put it on the agenda to choose a sub-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38929	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Before we continue to work, honourable Members of the People, according to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38930	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SVM will support this set of draft laws under the authority of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and in the day for the vote we will also vote for Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's election as governor of the NBS. Speaking of the draft law of the Ministry of State and local self-government, for all the elements of this part of the agenda, I would like to say that it is very good that these texts are written in a way that all interested parties could have participated in formulating the best solutions. This process of course did not begin a few weeks ago, but there is also a pre-parliamentary phase of the draft law before that. Some of these draft laws were held in public debate a year ago, so that indeed everyone had the opportunity to plead and make their proposals. That's certainly good, because we live in a time when the transparency is in fashion and when you say something is done transparent then it already has some positive connotation in advance regardless of the content value. But these bill proposals also have a content value, so transparency isn't the only value of these bill proposals. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, these draft laws introduce some new forms, some say direct democracies, I would say half-direct democracy and some new aspects of public debate will be introduced after the adoption of these draft laws in the National Assembly. This is certainly good because citizens at both the republican level and at the level of units of local self-government will be more able to influence the content of future draft laws, i.e. the laws on which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will vote. When we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, it should certainly be pointed out that in a better way the local community will be regulated. Meat communities were a category in our legal system - not in heaven, not on earth. It has not been clear for years what their jurisdiction is, what is the purpose of their existence, regardless of what citizens in many municipalities trust in the leaders of these councils of local communities and address these people, these bodies, but the local communities did not have the authority to act, to do or do anything more seriously in solving the problems of citizens who address them. That is why it is good that the ministry, or government, has seen these gaps in our legal system and that local communities will now have regulated status, which will know exactly what is the relationship between the units of local self-government and the local community, which will know what are the responsibilities of local communities, which is their maneuverial space, and in the future, citizens will, hopefully, address local communities with greater success. I say, once again, so far it would not have been the failure of the leaders of these local communities, but it was that their status was not properly regulated by the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. It's just another happy circumstance that this point and part of the coalition agreement between SNS and SVM, and in this way we can say that another point of our coalition agreement has been realized regarding better regulation of the legal position of local communities. When we talk about a set of laws in the field of individual and collective minority rights, the rights of members of national minorities, then we should mention the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Minority Councils, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of National Minorities, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. All these bill proposals mean an improvement in the position of members of national minorities in Serbia. Some of these four bill proposals contain new solutions, certain rights are extended, and some proposals only specify some of the provisions that have been part of our legal system so far. Why am I saying that now? I'm saying this because in public it has shown interest in certain solutions that do not mean newspapers in our legal system. For example, MPs who are members of certain national minorities, whose share accounts for at least 2% of the population of the Republic of Serbia, will be able to speak in this respected home in their native language in the future. That's definitely good. Everyone will decide whether to use it right or not. I have repeatedly said that my personal opinion is that in this home it is necessary to speak Serbian, for everyone to understand and for me to have the chance to convince, for example. Mr. Ruzic will accept our amendments and it will certainly be so until Mr. Ruzic learns the Hungarian language. That is why I will speak Serbian to this respected home in the future. What I'm saying is, this solution is not a newspaper. I was still in May 2007, though in another building, but in the same respected institution I sought and had the right to speak in Hungarian, in my native language. So this solution is not a newspaper, but it's certainly good that it's precise and it's clear that this now applies to republican organs, not to federal organs that haven't existed in our country for years. There are many and positive solutions, new solutions that have never existed before. I would like to highlight two such solutions from the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. The first solution is that there will be no discrimination against the measures that the state authorities will take to achieve certain essential objectives for us. One of these objectives is to increase the proportion or improvement of the employment ratio of members of national minorities in state bodies. This is, of course, not about some kind of leadership, but about the fact that, under our Constitution, proper representation of members of national minorities at all levels of the territorial organisation in the state administration and in general in the public sector should be taken into account. Certain specific laws already contain such measures and such solutions as amendments to SVM have been accepted on several occasions in previous years since 2015. We view this bill as a framework law. However, our legal system, unfortunately, does not know the category of constitutional or framework laws, but it is certainly also the proposal for a law of indicative character and it is certainly good that this issue will be regulated. Another important issue that means the newspaper is that in the future, data on the nationality of citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will be entered in the birth certificate. This is a prerequisite for us to know whether the proportion of members of national minorities in the state administration is appropriate, to use the term from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in the future Serbia will not be able to, or the authorities of Serbia will not be able to say – we do not know who is being declared, that is the constitutional right of every citizen, moreover, every citizen can change his nationality in a perfectly legal way annually and on several occasions, but from now on, of course, on a voluntary basis, he will be part of the parent book of the born. This is a prerequisite for enjoying many other rights. Let me do a little dyspression. I am sure that when we change again the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, I hope, not soon, but in a few years, for some reason still unknown, then we will be able to integrate into this text of the future law that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia will be able to send notice to members of the national minorities that they have the right to enroll in a special electoral list. The entry into a special polling list should operate on a voluntary basis, that is how it works, it should stay that way, but in the future, the authorities of the state may be able to send certain notifications to people who, in accordance with these new opportunities, declare themselves to be members of a particular national minority that they have the right to enlist in a special voter list of that national minority. So these are some future steps and we're not going to do it now, but I'm stressing just as an example why it's important and what benefits can come from signing up on a voluntary basis and data on national membership in birth certificates. The same solutions are provided for in an even more detailed way by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parent Books. The newspaper is certainly a step forward in enjoying the rights of members of national minorities, which in the future will not only be on the territory of the entire local unit, but also in populated towns, meaning, in the area of certain local communities, the power to introduce, I would say, in the official use of the language of the national minority if the members of that national minority make up at least 15% of the population of that populated community, it is certainly a step forward in respect of the rights of members of national minorities. However, it does not fall within the scope of the draft law in the sphere of law and freedom of national minorities, but I would still mention the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State agencies, because, I hope, after the adoption of our amendment and with regard to the state agencies, I would like to assume an obligation already laid down by the Law on Employees in Autonomous Provinces and Units of Local Self-Government, with one, and in the Law on Public Service Employees, on the other hand, that the proposed solution is to give priority to the existence of equal qualifications to a national minority when employed in this case in the State Agency. This is all about already made arguments regarding the need to improve the employment ratio of members of national minorities in the state administration, but also beyond, in the public sphere. I point out once again, it's not about some leading places, it's about jobs, so-called jobs. Under the circumstances, ordinary jobs so that citizens can communicate in their native language with the state, with representatives of certain state authorities. Finally, I left the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Law, which is extremely important to us in the previous year, and even more time, this text existed, existed in several variations. Many of the previous versions of this bill were not acceptable to the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, and we have signaled in good time both the Minister and his associates, and it is very good that we have managed to find solutions that are acceptable to us on the one hand. On the other hand, which are in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 and, on the third hand, which is sustainable and applicable in the case of all national minorities who have national councils, formed national councils in the Republic of Serbia and there are very different situations that arise, arise for certain objective and subjective reasons. It's good, for example. which we have managed to agree not to consider that a member of the political party cannot be a member of the national council because this would be contrary to the right of citizens, and also to members of national minorities to participate in public life. We can discuss what a national council is, although there will now be a definition in the law which is also good, because so far we have not had a definition of the national council in our legal system. And it's very good that there's a narrow circle of functions where they won't be citizens, members of national minorities who have certain party functions. However, I must say in parentheses that as far as the Hungarian national minority is concerned, neither in 2010, nor in 2014 we at the leading positions in the national council of the Hungarian national minority did we have party-colored people, in terms of party officials. It is also very positive that it will return to the text of the law of a certain jurisdiction which has been questioned by the Constitutional Court decision, but in the light of that decision it is said that some powers, powers can be returned to that law after certain transformations, this has been done and therefore all competences are done or that we should now say the powers are preserved and let them be returned. It is also very good to return to the beginning of my address, which was also possible for national councils to take part in this whole process, that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia also took part in public consultations on these draft laws because it has shown that it is giving meaning to these issues. And, to recap, we will support all these bill proposals. We have certain amendments as you know, I hope they will be, or I'm sure they will be adopted. And it's a good thing we came to the end of this process that lasted a long time. Once again, MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will also vote for the election of Jorgvanka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38931	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38932	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, to the distinguished co-workers of Mr. Minister, I must confess very frankly and openly that I am surprised and positively Mr. Minister with certain solutions, and I can really commend certain things provided for by these laws. And, of course, there's a lot of it for criticism, so I'd like to share this exhibit in three parts. First of all, to point out what is good in legal proposals, then to highlight what is wrong with legal proposals, and finally, in particular, to present to the citizens what is amazing in legal proposals. So, as far as good things are concerned, we'll start with the Law on Local Self-Government, you pointed out that yourself in your letter, it's very good to have a better application of the Institute of Direct Democracy more public involvement, greater involvement of citizens in the process of preparing the investment part of the local self-government budget where citizens will be able to say what to build, including the highest public in the process of preparing the laws of strategic and other public policies. Therefore, encouraging citizens to launch an initiative of importance for their environment, reducing the number of local officials towards the size of the municipality or city and a little bit better, and we will see that there are certain shortcomings, regulating the position of local communities and relations with the municipality and the city. All of these are therefore the good parts of the Law on local self - administration, i.e. the amendment and addition of this law. There are also good things in the Law of Parent Books, and you've listed them here, I agree with you. So, maximum security, accuracy and reliability of the parent book management system, especially important, I especially commend Mr. Minister, wherever the citizens are in Serbia or outside of it will be able to get copies of the parent books, which means that the parent books of diplomatic and consular representations will be an integral part of the register of parent books, which is one big important thing. We also support policy-making in line with the needs of minorities. It's a good and real thing, but I would especially point out two of your findings that I absolutely agree with. The first is that many European countries should envy us for minority policies. I agree that the status of national minorities in Serbia is exceptional and much better than in countries in the environment, as well as in many European countries. I would also agree with your finding that the amendment and addition of the National Minority Council Act requires a clearer definition of the authority of national minority councils, a reduction of excessive politicisation and a more transparent work of national councils. So I absolutely sign and support what you've said here. Also, I would like to support the initiatives of colleagues from the ruling majority who submitted a proposal for a new one, so to speak, for an addition to Serbia's territorial organisation, where both Bor and Prokuplje, so far, the municipalities would declare themselves to the cities and have absolutely the support of the Serbian Dvora Movement. That's where Mr. Minister, as I say, ends everything that can be said so commendably, and it's not a little bit. So we've been broad-handed today and going straight to what's extremely interesting and extremely bad in these proposed laws. We will start with our very favorite topics, so you say in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government introduce an additional position in Article 3 and say this – the unit of local self-government within the framework of its powers follows the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia and develops the necessary administrative capacities. Local self-government to deal with coordination with the EU, so will the local communities, Mr Minister, in the next changes and additions to align with the EU? Will residents' congregations also agree with the EU? Will our apartments and houses enter the EU to coordinate our family home budget? I mean, where is the border of EU interference in the lives of Serbian citizens? Do we need to arrange every segment of our society the way we're commanded by someone in Brussels? Please, Mr. Minister, it's absolutely unacceptable for us. Let's move on. What did you throw out, if I understood and noticed correctly, from these laws? In the former position of Article 30 of this Law, one of the responsibilities of the municipality was to encourage and assist the development of cooperatives. If you've thrown it out, it's a big grudge and a big mistake. Also, in the former stance of the 15th Old Law, it was written that one of the municipalities' competences to establish stock reserves and determine their size and structure, with the agreement of the ministry's jurisdiction to meet the needs of the local population. If it's been thrown out of the bill, you've also made a mistake. Let's move on. You mention in one place in paragraph 5 that providing and meeting the special needs of disabled people, which we absolutely always and in every place support, and protecting the rights of sensitive groups, which you somehow avoided to define. Are migrants, for example, sensitive groups, intending to settle empty Serbian villages with migrants, etc? Define that we know what sensitive groups are, so we know what you're talking about. Don't give us any sensitive groups. That wouldn't be so nice and correct on your part. Also, the position of the mayor of the municipal administration. I think the wrong position is the head of the municipal administration that corresponds exclusively to the municipal council that chooses him. He should answer to the congregation of the city’s congregation, for he is indeed leading one of the most responsible and serious affairs of the mayor of the municipal, or city administration, and in our opinion, you have made a mistake. Also, there is one sensitive thing about the Law on Local Self-Government, which is the status of assigning an honorary citizen. Believe me, we've had a lot of negative experiences assigning honorary citizens to Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic across Serbia, although they didn't deserve it anywhere. Even the SPC, as I say, has somehow devalued the medal it assigns, assigning it to various politicians who have no merit, unless they deserve to have the minister do their job and give state aid to the churches. When they give it out of private funds, then maybe some medal should deserve it, and this way they just do their job and don't need any SPC medals to get any politicians in power. That is the position of the Serbian Dvora Movement, and now that we are in opposition and when we are in power. What is also extremely problematic here is the very name of the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. Why, Mr. Minister, on the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities? Are they at risk in Serbia? Well, you're saying yourself they're not, that we can be proud of the status of national minorities in Serbia. Delete the words "protect the rights and freedom of national minorities", about the rights and freedoms of national minorities, without protection. This turns out to be how they are threatened as soon as we have to protect them, and nothing in Serbia is threatened. From Nemnjević to today we are multicultural, multinational, multi-religious or whatever you want from the EU, we meet these conditions. Don't let someone who's worked completely differently towards their national minorities, starting with the United States and beyond, give us any lectures about it, because we're much better at meeting national minorities than those who lecture us from the West. There are also some shortcomings in your proposals when it comes to national councils of national minorities, so I'd like to list a few. In my opinion, there is a problem with the positive discrimination of members of national minorities in terms of employment. What does that mean? You have two candidates and you hire one just because he's a member of the national minority. But isn't that, perhaps, discrimination against the other one? So, a very sensitive thing. It's a very sensitive thing. The writing of cannons in the languages of national minorities, a very sensitive thing. This size, to put it this way, is the width of writing cannons in the languages of national minorities I've never seen anywhere in the world. Mr. Minister, I assume you've traveled somewhere. Here, you can, like, say, explain why you're suggesting this to me where you saw it? Where did you see so many cannons written in the languages of national minorities in other countries? Here, it would mean a lot to me if you could give me those parallel examples. I'm against it, I'll say it right now. In this country, toponyms should only be printed in Serbian and there is no reason to be different. Also, in this parliament should only be spoken in Serbian. So I am absolutely against providing the possibility of a minority MP speaking in his own language to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There's no reason for that. They did not even seek and do not seek members of the national minorities who are fellow Members of our MPs here. So, who are we dating here, and what are we doing here? We're making Babylon out of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and Babylon just fell apart when languages got mixed up and people didn't understand each other anymore. Let me remind you. Of course, we come up with a thing that is particularly painful and sensitive, as regards the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. There are no solutions that are of great importance. We suggested this to you in the National Assembly Declaration on the Protection of Serbian Language and the Protection of Cyrillics. There is, therefore, no list of all Serbian literary works created in the Serbian language to be protected. There is no possibility that, particularly important for us, the Serbian state institutions are working to preserve and improve the Serbian language in the region and dispersion, especially through the opening of new Serbian language learning schools in our embassies and consulates in the region and the world, financial and other support for cultural artistic societies and cultural education communities in the region and the diaspora, financial and other support to the electronic and printed media of Serbs from the region and the diaspora that are in Serbian and, of course, preserving the rich spiritual cultural heritage of Serbs scattered around the world to be returned to their homeland. Also, there is no law on official use of the language and letters of Cyrillic protection, no criminal provisions for non-compliance with the use of Cyrillic in public use, no obligation for all public inscriptions in Serbia to be on Cyrillic and there is no obligation for the printed and electronic media to function on Cyrillic as well. You've missed all of this, Mr. Minister, in your motions to amend and supplement the Law on official use of language and letter. I wouldn't look back on what we certainly won't agree on, and these are those Western mantras about gender diversity and gender equality. It's such a mess that I wouldn't waste my time on it. One morning you feel like a woman, and the afternoon as a man, again as a woman, and it takes the state three times a day to sign up to fill your whims, simply, or to pay you a change of half, which we normally finance from the budget. That, Mr. Minister, is nonsense. What I particularly want to point out is that you haven't essentially given any solution to the pay grade. You have again avoided this as a government, and I would remind you of one very important thing, which is this scandal that since October 1st, at the order of the Citizens' Protector, in our passports, there will be an adjective "Serbian" and that citizenship will no longer be Serbian, but the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. You have the assessment of the most competent scientific institution of this country, the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language, which makes up top experts from SANU, the Mother of Serbia, all the departments of philosophy in this country, who oppose this scandalous erasure of national, or state specifics in this case. Serbian citizenship means citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, as is the case everywhere in the world. I don't know how much we'll be ashamed of that word "Serbian" and how long will someone wipe it out of our name, for example, "Telecoma Serbia", RTS, "The Way of Serbia" or "The Railway of Serbia" or Serbian citizenship? All of this should be Serbian, like everywhere in the world, such as Deutsche Bank, such as Deutsche Telekom, etc. Now we come to what's most interesting, because it's amazing, and that's the bill on public agencies. It's usually a scandal over scandals in this country. We don't know how many there are and, here you are, please let me know, Mr. Minister, public agencies in Serbia. I remember the SNS promise, when they fought for power in 2012, that they would lift all unnecessary state agencies. Not that they didn't cancel, but they set up new ones in the meantime. There's probably over 150 of them. There's talk of some incredible numbers, that hundreds of millions of euros go to state agencies, so if you could give me that information, how many millions? Perhaps a billion euros goes to work by these para-state agencies, which do not report their work to anyone, nor do we here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia know what they are doing there? They're the state of the country. Look what you're proposing. This is genius and you say even in the reasons for the adoption of this law – the Labour Act, and even the existing Public Agency Act, does not commit to public competition, the procedure for the reception of employees in employment. The proposed amendments to this law introduce a mandatory verification of the professional skills, knowledge and skills of candidates in the electoral process, introducing the principle of merit into the public agencies' employment system. If you, Mr. Minister, expect me to congratulate you now for remembering after 28 years of the SPS government in this country and six years of your joint power with SNS that and in public agencies there should be a job competition and professional employment training, then you will not get those congratulations, because it is amazing that so far there was a parallel state system in which anyone could be employed and what was actually a space for party employment of party personnel. It's a scandal, believe me. Your solutions are here in place, but I'm sorry, where is your responsibility, the responsibility of the SPS, the SNS, and all of you who have been in power until now, that you are now, after so many decades, introducing a mandatory public competition in employment and verifying the knowledge of candidates, establishing rules for the appointment of board members and directors and further their work, introducing better control and income schedules? Believe it or not, dear fellow MPs, there is a better control and income schedule. The people did what they wanted with the state money, arranged how they wanted on their own salary. Someone after six years of government is in charge of those revenues. Better control, he says, and rules to prevent conflicts of interest, etc., etc. So, I'm really shocked, that it took you six years to realize that such a large part of the state administration, which you've otherwise promised to abolish, actually works as a parallel system, where there's no employment competition, where there's no income and expenditure control, where people do whatever they want, they hire themselves however they want, and no one knows what they're doing, and they don't file a work report to anyone. That, believe me, is a truly incredible scandal. In that sense, I am obliged to mention eventually the election of the second term of governor of the NBS, for Yorvanka Tabakovic, which I consider a scandal. We heard part of her impressive biography by Vojislav Seselj. I'm sure he knows best who he is and how he proposed to be ministers and what he morally and immorally did, but we haven't heard the other part, which is the key, how Jorgovanka Tabakovic, for six years as governor of the NBS, protects the banking lobby in this country and protects the banks that rob Serbian citizens on over 500 commissions, which have been introduced in different ways, and through all other currency clauses, tax evasion, and everything else that banks are doing here, without being controlled by the one who is in charge of it, which is NBS: The scandal is the proposal of Serbian President Aleksandra Vukic, to propose Jorganka Tabakovic for his new mandate at the head of the NBS, which he actually spit in the face of all Serbian citizens robbed from the banks, who were just being protected by Jorgvanka Tabakovic, with his unconscious work and inaction. Here, in the end, I would ask a question and an esteemed, here present, Mr. Ivan Jovicic, election member of the High Council of the judiciary, from the judge's office, could he inform me of these VIP loans that the judges have? Do you maybe have, like, I'm interested, do you have credit with banks? Do your fellow judges get VIP loans from banks, loans that no other Serbian citizen can get, exclusively judges? And how many judges in Serbia have these special loans the banks give them, to keep quiet and not solve the problems of bank clients that have been robbed by banks? How is it possible that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court can now say that by October 1st all court proceedings of robbed banking clients, which have loans indexed in Swiss francs, and so far could not have been completed? Who's to blame for someone robbing these people for years, and you didn't protect them from the courts? Did you perhaps, Your Honor, not protect them because you had favourable loans that these same bank robberies gave you? It is top corruption at the highest state level, even recognised here by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, raising his hands that he can't stand up to the banking and judicial mafia, which is one of the other jobs. These are the most favourable loans in the state, these are judgments that stand aside from banks in the event of citizens being robbed by these same banks. Honor the exceptions, to understand each other, and to the honor of the judges he has. So, what's here for us, and to conclude with that, Mr. Minister, the key thing, don't go too far with EU courting, don't exaggerate with some kind of invention of gender equality and gender diversity, don't exaggerate with gender change. Do not exaggerate by assigning some special stories about national councils and national minorities that are absolutely normal and protected within this country. Do not give up Serbian citizenship, in the passport of every Serbian citizen, regardless of the pressure of someone...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38933	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38934	Let me finish my sentence, Mr. Chairman. Someone next could say that he was discriminated against because Serbia has the word Serbian in the word, and he is a member of another national community, so he is discriminated against and Serbia should change the name of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38935	Thank you. My colleague Orlic, you have a basis for replication, for mentioning the party. [[Vladimir Orlic: Right to replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38936	He's asking some interesting questions here again, and he touched Mrs. Tabakovic. He says he doesn't know what she was doing in her previous term. That, as usual, the ladies and gentlemen write about those they don't hate to read, it all writes well. In the proposal received by the National Assembly, among other things, I will read only segments. Therefore, among the results recommended by Ms Tabakovic is a contribution to achieving and preserving macroeconomic stabilisation together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other institutions. During the previous five years, inflation has been preserved at an average of about 2%, which is the most stable of European states. Interest rates on loans, businesses and the population have been reduced to the lowest level, which has increased their available income, fuelled credit activity and contributed and increased investment and economic activity. So those activities from which everything else is good in this society. In the past six years, a relative stability of the exchange rate not to be wasted has also been established. We all remember how that course was five or six years ago, as it says today, comparison shouldn't be difficult, but for those who are hard to read, I believe, and it's a certain effort. Furthermore, all of this in the ambience of significant turbulence in international markets where we have certainly resisted the responsible and efficient use of foreign reserves, whose level is more than 10 billion euros this year and so on. As for those agency notes, it's again a question of someone's desire to do his job. One look at the Internet is enough to get an answer as to how many of these agencies were abolished in just one move. So, in just one move maybe a few years ago. Look how much news there is and don't explain ourselves any further. Protection of the term ‘Serbian’. When a person is called, as was the Serbian Dvori or Dveri of Serbian, using the mark, I followed this screen here, only Dveri, without that Serbian, has to decide whether he's ashamed or not. At the very end, Mr. Chairman, that strange note about spitting in the face, that's what you heard here. This man needs to know, and we've already told him, when he talks about Mrs. Tabakovic, when he talks about Alexander Vukic or other people from the SNS, he has to keep his head up, he has to look up because he talks about people taller than himself in every way. When he spits, let him know who spits high, he returns to his cheek.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38937	I thank my colleague Orlic. Just a minute. Radeta and counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic also have the right to replicate. A colleague, Nedjo Jovanovic, will be a gentleman and I presume to be a colleague of Radeti's. The mention of the party president. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38938	Mr. Obradovic pointed out in his presentation that the moral character, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, spoke to Vojislav Seselj, but he said that he tried to be ironic, so he said Seselj knew best who he had placed morally or immorally on certain functions. Mr. Seselj said what he should have said and explained and the moral character of Jorgovanka Tabakovic and at all about what Serbian radicals were like when they were in power and stressed that no one had any stains and that's a fact, because if it were until 2000 we would probably hang out on bandits, let alone end up in prisons. We Serbian radicals and Vojislav Seselj, who is our president, are proud of the fact that we have our own ideology, that we have our own party, that we do not change ideology from today to tomorrow, no matter how political it cost us. Unlike Bosko Obradovic, who would be a bit of a nationalist, so he would be a little liberal, and then as in that comedy wherever he seems conveniently approaching "get me, receive me", so goes from one to the other, so it was in that campaign ahead of these previous elections, so it works all the time. We don't know who his direct authority is now, whether Gilas is, whether Vuk Jeremic, whether Boris Tadic is, since in the same jobs a little bit and in the same way, they treat both the state of Serbia and all the values that every patriot would really have to respect. I guess on that behalf, both his co-worker and MP blocked the patriarch on her way to Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38939	The right to replication, mentioning the party, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38940	I thank you, Chairman. When it comes to calling the SPS, without a shred of morale, then it is necessary to react, and the lack of morals has been recorded. It is evident that someone who has been limited to partocracies, whose closest relatives were or were still employed by public institutions, i.e. institutions or bodies of local self-government, whose relatives were or were still employed by the public institutions, or bodies and bodies of local self-government, where the one who called us lives. If that's the case, and that's the case, and no one can get in doubt here, and neither am I a speaker, then there really is no morale missing when someone turns to the SPS with such criticism. What we also need to know, the agencies we're talking about now are not founded by the SPS, but by the political parents of the party whose speaker called us. These political eyes were founded by those agencies and those agencies were ballast for a long, long time throughout the system, the entire financial structure on which the Republic of Serbia's budget should rest. Therefore, the SPS can proudly say that Minister Ruzic, as a follower of Mrs. Brnabic, continues a consistent one policy that is respectful, which is a policy of modernising the state administration and local self-government, and putting on the feet of what has not been put on its feet for many years. When it comes to judges, it is enough to say that a huge number of judges are slaved to Swiss francs in terms of credit and credit lines, so it is extremely immoral to call judges and justice in the way that Bosko Obradovic does, using personal political marketing or EPP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38941	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38942	Thank you, Chairman. Simply for the public and for the citizens of Serbia. Of course, it is good to hear both constructive and less constructive criticisms. These first three and a half minutes were really amazing. At one point I was surprised and worried, but not to joke too much. So, as for what you said, Mr. Obradovic, and as regards the criticism of the Amendments and Supplements Act, what I was saying in the introduction, so we changed the concept, and so perhaps you didn't notice, but I am glad that you used this brochure provided by the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government for all the MPs. In any case, the law deals with areas arising from the Constitution and sectoral laws, following the adoption of this law, which it also says, is a year to establish a single record of jobs. When you're talking about stock reserves, there's a Stock Reserve Act and it's classified business. You're probably aware that local self-government units have original and trusted jobs. This unique business record, which is important for the public to say, has already been done by almost 80%, will be a guideline for both trusted and original jobs, and, of course, every new sector will be incorporated, the provisions of new sectoral laws that will affect the definition of these jobs, so that nothing will be broken or lost. As for the name of the law, where you put that prefix of protection in a negative context, that name of the law comes from 2002, we didn't think it was necessary to change it, nor do we feel that we need to change it. As regards positive discrimination in employment, the constitutional provision and the advantage certainly have, in justified circumstances, the candidate who holds the same conditions in order to achieve adequate representation. So, in that sense, no one is discriminated against. This is about positive discrimination. As far as provisions are concerned, where you are practically talking about the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, it is two members where we comply with the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom, that is, the harmonisation of those two laws. What is certainly the subject of the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters is also regulation of the use of Serbian language and letter, and you are right there. That's not at all controversial. One comprehensive analysis is being carried out. The competent authority will prepare those changes. Here we have only treated the likeness, the harmonisation of two laws from a set of minority laws, and that is something that, of course, you can use to politically achieve some point, according to your political agenda, but I simply want to point out the facts for the public. There, of course, is also an assistee of the Council of Europe's expert mission and it will certainly be completed. And what's segmented, what's going to be segmented, covered, will also be taken into account about the official use of language and letters, for example. in some administrative procedures, in the judiciary, in some other affairs of state authorities, and that's that. I think I've generally responded to criticism. Of course, they are welcome, because they give us an opportunity to explain what the law is. And I thank you for the first part of your address and for this second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38943	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38944	Dear MPs, we continue our work. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38945	Thank you, Your Honor. Ministers and members of the Government, I would like to refer to this set of national minorities laws as a representative of the Bosniaks in this House, first of all to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities and the Proposal for a Law on National Councils of National Minorities. If we want to seriously consider this set of laws concerning national minorities, we must first start with an analysis of the work group's work on making these proposals or draft laws. From the process, it is best to see the proposal's intention to impose some of its solutions on these laws. The working groups for the making of these two laws numbered 26 members, mostly the same composition. The coordination of national councils of national minorities had the right to delegate five of its representatives to the work of these working groups. They were representatives of the Bosniak, Hungarian, Romanian, Slovak and rebel national council. According to the number in which minorities were represented in these working groups, an unequal position of representatives of national minorities can be seen. Therefore, of the 26 members of each of these groups, national minorities had five representatives each and thus did not represent any factor, nor had any impact on their work, nor did the participation of representatives of national minorities give the expected result, because in such a relationship with the working group it was practically impossible to reach solutions proposed by legitimate representatives of national minorities. Other members of the task force have been designated by the government departments, as well as the AP secretariat. The president of this task force was the secretary of state at the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government. So no proposals were accepted by the representatives of co-ordination, especially by representatives of the Bosniak National Council. Such proposals were mostly ignored and passed without adequate debate. The proposals, as I said, were rejected, without adequate explanation, and often without any explanation at all. It is important to note that both the working group never and in no way has spoken of the proposals, but the fate of these proposals in most cases depended solely on the views of a certain Darko Radojić, a representative of the Republic Secretariat for the legislation, which was explicitly against any proposal coming from representatives of the coordination of national councils of national minorities. The task force has also never spoken out on the final versions of the drafts of these laws, so we don't know on what basis these working groups are here today. Some of the key failures in the work of these working groups are the lack of rules or rules on the working group's work, refusal to vote on the proposals made, the lack of minutes from working group meetings, although all meetings have been recorded in tone, which is proof of how non-transparent and non-inclusive the process of amending these laws itself. To be clear, this kind of process of amending the laws mentioned is not a good will for the proposing, but rather a country's obligation is prescribed by the Action Plan for Chapter 23 to join the Republic of Serbia. So in the conclusion of the focus on the work group's work, I can say that none of the proposals that were essential to national minorities were included in the drafts of any of these two laws. I will also refer in particular to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. As representatives of Bosniaks, we cannot be satisfied with the content, and even less with the way the solutions contained in this bill were made. The current policy of state authorities, precisely this position of the rights of national minorities, treats it as a matter of second-rate importance. The argument to this claim is precisely this, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. So if we move in line, Article 47, point 2. The unique methodological rules for the making of rules are defined that if more than half of the members of the basic regulation are amended, or complemented, a new regulation should be adopted. Article 8(2) The Law on the National Assembly is prescribed that the competent authorities should apply these uniform methodological rules when drawing up regulations and laws. The amendments and additions to this law have changed more than 20 members of the basic law, out of 25 of which there are, with the addition of new six members, and thus had to be approached by the adoption of a new law, not by amendments and additions to the existing law, as they also require existing regulations in the Republic of Serbia. So, even the legal-technical obligations imposed in this case are not respected, as I said, to create a new Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. If we take into account the fact that the rights of national minorities and the means of achieving them are defined in a number of different laws and sublegal acts that are often incompatible with each other, we come up with another reason why it was important to approach the creation of a new roof law on the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities. This law had to be a parent law that listed all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, domestic legislation and international documents that the Republic of Serbia has ratified and has joined. The state entered into this bill in a completely wrong way, without a single parameter that would show the results of the current application of this law, without considering the real needs of national minorities, as well as without an analysis of regulations, rules which are dealt with in different ways by achieving a Corps of Rights guaranteed by national minorities. Before the entry into force of the text of this law, it was necessary to organise several sessions and public hearings and gathering of all relevant facts which would then be a real indication in which direction should be taken when establishing the standards that make up this law. By interpreting these provisions and relations with other laws, we see that this bill does not provide any legal certainty to national minorities. Neither this law nor the past provides adequate penalties for those who violate this law, whether it is legal or physical. Therefore, this proposal for a law punishes the provisions in no way appropriate and is not prescribed in the right way. The legal system of the Republic of Serbia, this is an example, has a number of laws which are subject to subscribing to other laws. Such examples are the Privatisation Act and the Public Property Act. If such practice and such an approach were also applied to the norms of these laws of the national minority as one of the most vulnerable social groups, they would have adequate legal protection and would need a level of legal certainty, i.e. a law of permanent character, which would not be compromised, or even suspended by the adoption of any other law, and often by some sublegal act. In this way, the exercise of the rights of national minorities again depends on the government's political will, which is another evidence that there is no desire in Serbia to establish a rule of law. Special centralisation is also your proposal in Article 11. A bill on national councils of national minorities in which you are trying to prevent legitimate representatives of national minorities, who are in charge of political parties, to run and be elected to national councils. This could be if we had prescribed the same provision for the President of the Republic, for the Prime Minister, or, for example, for the Minister in charge of this area. What do you mean, here, say, you as a political party official can be a minister who deals with national minorities and their national councils, and legitimate representatives of national minorities can't do that? The same is true of the President of the Republic and Prime Minister. So it's necessary to apply the same parameters. The lack of this law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of national minorities is also the fact that there is a lack of obligation for the Prime Minister, the President of the District Government, the mayors and the presidents of municipalities to report once a year on the position and degree of achievement of individual and collective rights of national minorities with a proposal for measures to improve the overall position of members of national minorities. The bill also failed to respect the fact that some national minorities such as Bosniaks, Albanians, Bulgarians, part of the Roma, part of the Vlach, part of the Macedonians, part of Romania lives outside the territory of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, where there is a middle level of government and where mechanisms for the protection and exercise of the rights of national minorities in all areas are developed. Therefore, respecting this fact, it was necessary to prescribe a larger body of rights and firm mechanisms and channels through which equal rights of national minorities would be exercised on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia in order to achieve the essential equality of members of national minorities and citizens belonging to the majority, but also among the national minorities themselves. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia also stipulates that national minorities also have the right to self-government in certain areas. However, in no legal act of this state, this minority self-government has been defined, its term is not defined, nor the conditions or ways in which it is realized. This law required defining the legal status of the national council, i.e. the national major national minority as institutions through which national minorities exercise some of their collective rights and bearer of minority self-government. When it comes to education, the education of national minorities in the native language is one of the fundamental rights to preserve their speciality. It is precisely the exercise of the right of national minorities to education that is one of those rights in the native language that is exercised in several different laws, and certain issues are solved even by acts of some lower legal force than the law, which is unacceptable. This bill of law has not properly addressed this issue. The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in the field of education must give the right to minorities in matters of particular importance to a significant extent and not less than 50% are studying these measures relating to history, art, culture, tradition and national minorities. When it comes to the official use of language and letter, the Bill on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities required the introduction into the official use of the language and letter of the national minority to be prescribed for those local self-governments in which the number of members of the national minority reaches 10% of the population. By prescribing this affirmative measure, satisfaction would be given to national minorities over whom crimes, persecutions and human rights violations have been committed in the past because their numbers have since been reduced in these environments, as has been the case with the Bosniak community in the municipality of Priboj. The use of languages and letters in the issue of personal and travel documents is limited only to the printing of the personal name of members of national minorities in their native language and letter. The ID and travel documents Act define this question in a different way, and according to the provisions of the ID Act, it is prescribed that the form of the ID card should be entered in the language and letter of the national minority, while the Law on travel documents is prescribed that only the personal name of the members of the national minority be entered in the format of the travel document. So far, practice has shown that neither ID nor passport are issued bilingually in both the language and the letter of the national minority. This example is another in a series of evidence of non-compliance in the Republic of Serbia, which in any way treats the rights of national minorities, but even if something is prescribed by law, we are witnessing that it is not in practice, thus making it impossible for national minorities to fully and adequately exercise their rights. When it comes to the representation of national minorities within the framework of legislative, judicial, executive authorities, as well as the political organisation of national minorities, this Corps of Rights of National Minorities is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the envisaged international documents and some laws of the Republic of Serbia. The application of this in practice in accordance with previous experience is reduced to a minimum or is completely disabled. The representation of national minorities in the judiciary, police, prosecutors, representative bodies and other state bodies is at a very low level. The result is, among other things, the legal gaps that exist in the regulations governing these issues, and in particular with regard to the procedures and methods of exercising those rights. Accordingly, the draft law should lay down measures to ensure political participation of representative bodies at all levels of government, in particular with regard to the candidateing of electoral lists of national minorities, in the process of selecting MPs and committees to ensure representation of national minorities in judicial bodies, but also to other state bodies with public authority and to ensure representation of national minorities in state bodies, autonomous province and units of local self-government. When it comes to the Council of the Republic of Serbia for a national minority, therefore, the proposal for this law fully devises the original idea of the existence of such a council. So today, the prime minister was allowed to be relieved of this duty. The idea of forming such a council is that at the highest level, the government is responsible for the position of national minorities. This law removes responsibility from the prime minister and lowers it to some lower level, creating mechanisms for further delay in certain national minority rights. In the rest of the debate on amendments we will talk about, therefore, I hope that you have realized from all of this that this bill does not constitute a solution to the accumulated problems faced by national minorities in the Republic of Serbia and that this proposal further complicates such a confusing area in the achievement of individual collective rights of members of national minorities and I therefore invite you to withdraw such drafts of the law. In particular, I urge you not to go any further with this kind of law-making. We have tried to reduce the negative effects by amendment to some extent, and I urge you to at least adopt those amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38946	The word is made by Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38947	I really thank you for this constructive and somewhat less constructive criticism. First of all, it is important for the public to know that the draft work process itself, then on the proposal of these laws, was very inclusive, that we had continued participation of the Council of Europe, that as the competent ministry we communicated with all national councils, with the coordination that is owned to propose whose representatives, which national councils will participate in the working group. Our proposal was to make it three national councils, the proposal for coordination was to be five, we accepted it. In addition to other authorities, therefore, we had five representatives of national councils. One of them is, of course, the Bosniak National Council. Mr. Shrill took part in the task force from beginning to end. The role of the working group was not to satisfy exclusively the interests of one or individual council or members of national minorities representing that national council, but to find a sustainable optimal solution that would be in line with international resolutions, documents, etc. As far as I am concerned, I would say, the legal and technical criticism you have pointed out, that it was practically necessary to write a new law, recognised by our international partners, that the existing legislative framework is quite satisfactory, but that it should be improved, i.e. to use, to modernise, and to align with the solutions that exist in the legal system and with the recommendations of the international bodies and the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 and not to make new regulations and to create new policies. So it wasn't about fundamental change, it was about embezzlement and modernisation. For this, the 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, which for the first time in our country's legal system envisioned a number of programming solutions that did not lose on their actuality. I think we mentioned it today in the afternoon debate, only from another visor. Of course, he needed to be modernised, termologically similar and brought into line with the changes that followed in the legal system, after its adoption, but he certainly has historical significance, when we look at the entire corps of these issues through a political prism. As for some of the demands you mentioned here, they were simply not the subject of these legal solutions. It is some other legal regulations, and this could not have been the subject of the work group in which I repeat it, your representative of the Bosniak National Council participated. You mentioned that someone has taken the role of prime minister in relation to the National Minority Council, I remind you that the prime minister is the chairman of the National Minority Council and that they participate in it, in addition to all representatives of national councils and four ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So nothing's changed. I'm saying this, not to convince you, but simply for the citizens. As for Article 11, which defines the incompatibility of functions, of course, the approach may have been little at the beginning, I will not say more rigorously, but also based on the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Advisory Committee, it has been much more stringent, it has been corrected to a large extent and the recommendations itself on the avoidance of this excessive politicisation has been incorporated into this provision that has been proposed. Therefore, the purpose of this article is to reduce excessive politicisation, i.e. In line with the recommendations of relevant international bodies, the abandonment of the political parties of national minorities and the legal regulation of incompatibility, although they are elected election lists for the direct elections of national councils, would not be in the function of excessive politicisation. On the other hand, it's about democratic law. It should be pointed out that the political parties of the national minorities are authorised representatives and proposing voters only in the direct elections for national councils. They have no role to play in the electronic selection process. As I said, in addition to the Bosniak National Council, we had representatives of the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, Bunjevac, Romania and Slovakia. So we've been looking, and probably coordination has seen the fact that there are national minorities that have their own home state and those who don't have it. So, these specificities that each individual, the national minority, is carrying, have been incorporated, have been recognised by both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resord Ministry. Of course, for this reason, some of the proposals put forward by a representative of the Bosniak National Council were rejected, but some were accepted. The truth is that any of the proposals for coordination have not been accepted, because it is simply not based on facts. As for the said Mr Radojicic, it is a representative of the Republic Secretariat for Law, and you must know for a fact that the role of the Republic Secretariat for Law is clear to be dealt with in compliance with the legal system. So, working groups exist, not to become fountains of desire, but to make those proposals that have exceeded, which can be introduced into norms and be aligned with the legal system, of course, in some legislative proposal. In doing so, I'm not talking about your proposals right now, I'm talking about general. As far as the above-mentioned Rules of Procedure are concerned, it does not say that it is an obligation to have a Rules of Procedure on Labour, and they are all communicated in writing and no one has really complained about it, except for the controversial representatives of the Bosniak National Council. As for some of the other things you mentioned, I must say that in this work so far, and so do our international partners, but also the vast majority, I can say the vast majority, representatives of the national councils of the national minorities, that we have received all the praise for this inclusive approach and the public debates that we have led since the draft of these laws. I understand there's a political dimension to all this. My obligation as minister is not to deal with daily politics, nor with the political goals of certain political parties, but to draw up the best possible legislative proposal, and therefore today we have come out with this set of minority laws before you, MPs. Don't take this as any kind of controversy, I'm simply saying this for the public, and especially because of those citizens and citizens of our country who live in the Raška area or in Sandzak and who I don't want to be confused in any way, and about the rights that have been promoted and concerning what is the subject of all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38948	You have no right, Mr. Imamovic, to a replica. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38949	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for what you said earlier, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, is there going to be confusion in the Rasko area. There won't be any confusion in the Raska area. These laws that we're adopting today can only help keep this confusion further and further away. I will commend you first because you chose good associates, associates from Lazarec, Zrenjanin, Zitiste, your secretaries, people who have experience in locals and will likely be of use to you by the end of this term. What I'm saying is, at the beginning, that the United Serbia parliamentary group will support all 10 laws that are on the agenda today. Also, Minister, I want to ask you the last time you were in the Assembly I asked you a question and I don't know why you didn't answer that question, it was the system of electronic administration in Vranjska Banja when your predecessor was visiting. That system worked for 12 minutes, and then the system went down. After that visit, the system couldn't get up for a while. Today they say it's working. Today I'm not looking for an answer to that question, then maybe it could have served my colleagues at the bar, today it's less important. Mr. Minister, when it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, I listened carefully to what you said and I read all these laws. I just want to tell you one thing in the shortest possible line, how we are experiencing this law from the Single Serbia. We experience it in such a way that the goal of local self-government is to serve the citizens and there ceases every philosophy, that is the simplest definition of what you do at the Ministry of Local Self-Government. Under the law, the minister in charge of population policy said, she urged municipalities to engage in the implementation of a strategy to encourage birth. I found out about this for the first time today. Minister Djukic-Dejanovic is doing a very responsible job and runs a very responsible portfolio with his ministry. To the former finance minister, when we adopted this budget, I also said that the funds that the ministry received were not nearly enough for the realization and resolution of such a serious problem its ministry is dealing with. Again, on the other hand, when I saw that you had called local self-governments to give you proposals, and given the circumstances, I was able to read some of the suggestions, although I know that the deadline for submitting these proposals is two days to Thursday. I'm more than disappointed. Those suggestions will get to you. I think they missed the subject, so would the teacher at primary school when he should read the demands of local self-government. Here, I'm telling you, you're going to read them all, I think they've missed the subject, and you might have arranged it in another way, to ask mothers first of all what mothers think about it and how mothers would think, what they require for population policy to be better. After mothers, especially those who have one or two children, do I see that the target group is and some statistics suggest that the greatest increase in birth rate is expected. Minister, I apologize, Mr. Ruzic, if it's not a problem, since I have a question, so I don't have to lose my answer again. One minute, I won't be talking for long. After these mothers, I think you should have addressed local self-governments that have results just with their actions in the fight against the white plague. Not because I'm from JS, not because Dragan Markovic Palma is the best mayor in Serbia, but because according to the Bureau of Statistics, Jagodina is one of the two or three cities where this talent is definitely shown positively in some parameters. What they did, what population policy they ran, it could be one of the solutions to your ministry. I can tell you what we were able to copy in the 2008 to 2012 term, we from Vrnjaka Banja, from Jagodina, which is that all the children who finish fourth grade had the opportunity to go to sea on the cost of local self-government, seven days on vacation. The defeating statistics said that 50% of children had seen the sea for the first time. I asked for class elders who teach Serbian to show me what the children wrote on the subject – the sea before they went to the sea and what they wrote afterwards. Believe me, it's more than a sad story. The action we did was more than positive. Then we also found that a group of mothers who have one and two children is the same group that can raise population policy and we decided that every mother who has a fourth child we pay 200 euros every month until the age of that child. It's a concrete move. I'm sorry that the current president of the municipality has abolished it all. It's all gone, believe me, it is, and then when I expected those funds to be directed in another direction, so let's see the results, unfortunately, something happened that you're treating your laws, which is excessive employment. Then people probably for the same funds that were denied these children were able to narrow down and expand their families and thus quite abuses and budgets and the position they were in. But to stop criticizing them today, I'm asking you a question that I said just concentrate. The bills of the local communities have been abolished and this law here requires that, and that's good, to make everything more transparent, to make it more accessible, to make it easier. I ask you, how is it possible, then, that in Vrnjačka Banja, after the removal of the local community accounts, the entire village has paid one severance salary and has so far collected over two and a half million dinars that have been blended into the municipal budget and that can no longer be spent the way they planned by voting self-delivery? Is anyone responsible for this and whether you can help us, i.e. to help people in local self-government how to make that money available, i.e. to allow citizens to spend it the way they planned? Chiefs of the administration, since there were words here today about what was going on with the assistants of the president of the municipality, with members of the council, etc. I agree, many have abused it, it's backwards, I believe, for 30 years like that. Whoever doesn't have any direct control, gives up a little bit, those positions get abused and everyone goes to the maximum, if four assistants can, there's four, if there's a maximum of three, there's three, if the council can be 11, there's 11 of them. This is good, this is where you specify what it's supposed to look like. You've made one classification and surely the effects of saving on this issue at the level of the Republic will be felt, because this is not a small number of people. On the other hand, there is no law that can make all things the way they should be, but that's why the presidents of the municipalities, the vice presidents of the municipalities and all those officials, who should first of all have some personal ethics when they have the budget. You can say there will be fewer assistants and council members, but on the other hand, none of you can track what happens to official cars. In Serbia, it has long been visible on these Twitter accounts and on Facebook when you ask someone – which car is the best, you expect them to say brand Mercedes, audio, etc., everyone says – is the best official car. That's 100% true. It doesn't cost anybody. The state pays taxes, taxpayers pay, everyone else spends. I can't help but mention again the example of Jagodina and Dragan Markovic Palma who gave the official cars for use by citizens. So, anyone who is sick and cannot reach Belgrade at the Clinical Center has the right to give such a person a car, but he should not and should not have the right to drive his family with such a car on vacation and to reward his friends who have no political functions by giving them a car. So, as far as all these laws ahead of us are concerned, the JS parliamentary group is going to vote for them because first of all we think they're good laws. When it comes to the Law of Parent Books, at the shortest, you have achieved what the essence was, and that is networking. With such a networking, we all get fast, we save time, we save money, it's a good thing, I tried it, Minister, it works, it's absolutely working, let me tell you right now, unlike the one from the beginning of my story. Law on salaries of employees in public agencies. In 2013 or 2012, a regulation was adopted that limited any salary in the state sector could not be greater than 146,000, correct me if I am wrong. I remember then the current Vice-President of the Vladimir Marinkovic Assembly and I, as members of the Finance Committee, had the opportunity to look at and adopt the budgets of different agencies. We were fraternizing when we came to their average wages with a simple bill and saw that these salaries were far above that limit. No one's taken this seriously until now. With two hands, I am voting for this law and the entire JS parliamentary group, to finally put these things in order, that those who are to be rewarded for their work will be rewarded, and those who do not need to receive such high wages will come down to some lower classes. When it comes to the National Minority Councils Act, I listened to what my colleague had just said. I want to share an experience with you and I don't want anyone to take it the wrong way. I'm saying this very well-intentioned. I had the opportunity to visit and mixed villages and villages divided by national belongings to one, the other, the third, and so on. When I say no one resents me, I come from a party called Unique Serbia and what brought us together are this family and unity. I absolutely don't want anyone found or offended or hurt by what I'm about to say. In the municipality of Backo Topola, I had the opportunity to visit villages where the Hungarian animal lived, and I had the opportunity to visit villages where the others lived. Believe me, there was no school in these other villages. I welcome and congratulate the president of the municipality, right now I don't know who he is, on the fact that these other villages were fully decorated. I also ask these presidents of municipalities where most are not majority but are minorities, to consider it and to make sure that all villages at least look the same, because if we don't distinguish between such things, and these laws you try to do so, then I'm going to ask those people who have the authority to try to in all municipalities and those who are able to implement it through executive power, to make sure that they all have the same rights. As for the Law on the Election of Governors of the NBS, Vice Governor, the election of the President of the Courts, etc., we will support all these personnel solutions. I personally had the opportunity to take part in committees where we found these names and names. I think it's all done correctly, in the most honorable way. As far as the governor of the NBS is concerned, Mrs Tabakovic was here in the last assembly defending her laws. I said what I said then and now, that may be the biggest argument and why we will support her as a candidate for governor, because Mrs Tabakovic managed to keep the euro on one stable course. In parallel, we have a politically stable situation in the country, and it immediately opens the door for all investors to come and invest more easily and freely, to create new jobs. That's actually the point, that's what we should all fight for here. Mrs. Tabakovic is not here today, but she'll probably be able to see what we're talking about today. I told her then, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to say it now -- she's not guilty and she's not responsible for everything that happened with the people who took credit in the Swiss francs, everyone had the right choice, there was a question of information. It's not easy for these people, that's for sure. So I ask Mrs Tabakovic in this next term, which I am sure she will get, to offer some solution and I believe that we will all be present here to stand behind that solution that is good, to vote him out and finally get those people out of their misery. Once again, JS parliamentary groups will support all laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38950	The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38951	Thank you. Mr. Vujic, thank you for this content address, short, concise, but you've touched all the topics. Not to be obliged, the question concerned Vranjska Banja, since you came from that municipality. It was possible that it was too quiet, not impossible, but it was, it was a promotion of so-called. eZUP 13 June 2017, it is true that only 12 minutes did not work. After that, thank God, now in 2018, eZUP works great. As far as the data is concerned, we are practically close to having full capacity in these administrative matters that are essential for us to go out to the citizens, that with the full capacity of all municipalities exchange these data. I think we've really taken a big step from that point of view. It's important to say for the public that it was a promotion of a good thing that was confirmed during time that it was a great thing. Anyway, with that criticism that stood then, it stands now as a fact, but it's generally important that it really works now. As regards the self-dependencies and the situation that you mentioned and the examples you mentioned, this self- contribution remains virtually qualified as the income of local self-government and funds can only go to a special dedicated account for what self-delivery was and was called for. In that sense, there is no possibility of any, or should not, abuse. As for the population policy, the most vital approach and everything that we as a ministry were in charge of doing, and based primarily on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Mr. Vukic, in collaboration with his cabinet and cabinet of the minister without the portfolio of Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, it was done, if I am not mistaken, three or four months ago, where we were obliged to collect information on what measures of the innovative and population are applied to each unit of local self-government. Also, the second review was the number of applications for kindergartens, so whether there is a waiting list, what is the number, so that this strategy will be implemented to the end of the work and that we can carry out some of the activities that will solve these problems. As you have seen, a competition has been called by the restors, I will not say resor, given that it is a minister without a portfolio, but it is 500 million dinars, where municipalities together can apply with projects, and this is also the part that the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government were in charge of. The very fact that it was a non-reporting minister put us in a position to communicate with local self-government units, I think that we really collected those data on an up-to-date basis, practically within seven days, three months ago, delivered to the president's office, and therefore the later moves were withdrawn. So, in that sense, it was the role of this ministry. As far as public agencies are concerned, you have praised these changes and additions, primarily regarding the reform of the wage system and this roof law. What's important for the public to say, someone in the afternoon's session talked about it, I stayed in debt, there are 15 republican agencies under the law, but there are also those agencies that are formed individually by law, so, in that sense, it's important that we have that information as well. I think it is good that these changes and additions will contribute to transparency in work, take into account the qualifications of those who are at the head of those agencies or the boards of directors. As a minister, I truly fully understand in some way the nuanced or constructive criticism that you have made regarding the functioning of the local self-government you come from, but as a minister, I do not have the opportunity to give political assessments about what the situation is right now. You know the best about those who are in power in the ruling coalition in the concrete municipality of Vranjčka Banja, and most importantly, those who are the holders of sovereignty and small or medium or very important municipalities with great potentials, and these are just the inhabitants of Vranjska Banja. I think I've answered all the questions in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38952	The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38953	I thank the chairman. Respected representatives of the government, the ministry and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, today there have been objections to a united debate, the urgent call of meetings on very important drafts of the law, as well as on staff solutions at some of the most important places in the state pyramid of government, so to speak, which is not only about human rights, concerns our destiny as well as the state's economy and finances, that the judicial system will act, as it will distribute justice in this country. It is no accident that these important laws were just about to serve as a cover for these perhaps controversial humane solutions, or as a cover for one system of government that exists, some would say since the world and the century. We are a people who are prone to slowly remember, and quickly forgets, because today when we discuss the system of local self-government and state administration because here we have the ideal representatives for this topic, the ministry that is also called. I will remind you, and I remember very well, because at that time I was one of the officials of the ruling party, and you from the opposition and today and before, you will remember the action "Blica" that on the front pages of "Blica" then the leaders of political parties in Serbia signed publicly with their name and last name, meaning the exact signatures were published, the photographs and opposition and today the ruling officials were published, that after the 2012 elections, in March, in the first 100 days of the government, if they were part of that government, a comprehensive action of the department of public agencies that we are discussing today. Here, now I'm looking at a colleague of Martinovic, I think then as a representative of the SRS, I don't think you're the only one who signed that, because you didn't want to sign something that wasn't your party's original decision. I mean, we're all prone to some kind of political demagogy. Today, when we are discussing a huge burden on the state-run apparatus for the economy of Serbia which is not good and for the standard of citizens who are very bad, we must remember this political hypocrisy that we are all less or more prone to. But as long as there is a grain of democracy in Serbia, it makes sense to fight, it makes sense to criticize. Today, when we discuss these beginnings of these nine laws, although we have 14 points to discuss, for which the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government is in charge, of course, I will commend the minister and his team of associates for sharing these brochures in which in a very short and summed way the essence of these legal changes is expressed. Of course, these are some former ministers who ran this resource, and I remember Minister Kori Udovicki who shared such brochures, but simply all of this that was written in these proposals of the law is very difficult to implement in the work, precisely because of lack of political will. So, because of these rotten compromises that are top political parties in power along with its coalition partners, it brings, the moment the elections are over, when the time of demagogy and false promises to the citizens and when political prey should be distributed. I will remind Minister Ruzic that today we are discussing this set of laws in the moments when the Council of Europe's framework has been launched by a mechanism of committees to monitor local and regional authorities' congresses, following complaints from the opposition municipality of Paracin, and some other municipalities, such as Cajetina and Sabac, who alarmed the Council of Europe's mechanism, and we are here today discussing some standards based on the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and we have a protocol on the agenda that strengthens certain provisions and participation of citizens and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. So, a monitoring mechanism has been launched that refers to complaints that the central government in Serbia is putting pressure on these currently opposition, I would say, municipalities and that it simply violates that principle, to say the autonomy and independence of the units of local self-government of Serbia. A meeting will be held in June 28th, and then two solutions are possible, or a mission to determine the actual situation will be sent to Serbia, or the government will simply receive one request, I will have to answer the government's representatives, perhaps Minister Ruzic or someone else, to these issues, what is happening in Paracina, what is happening in Sapac and Cajetina. Why do the central authorities, to put it this way, dictate the autonomy of local self-government units. Now I'm looking at the representatives of the authorities, and here we all look at the example of the Happy Constitution every day. You know very well what the Sreten Constitution, which was liberal for the time being, was said to be an attempt by the French devastation in the Turkish forest. I am now asking the representatives of the government, at least nominally and declaratively, most of them favouring the EU, Minister Ruzic was former European Integration Minister, for a time in the previous composition of the government. So, all these European principles, the principles of the Council of Europe that are trying through these legislative solutions of amending and supplementing the law, to be implemented in Serbia, why this European breakdown, if we are now taking this protocol to strengthen the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, why are they failing in Serbia. We immediately have the answer, this European breakup is not working in the woods of ours, so to speak, conditionally speaking to Serbian regulations and Serbian habits. Of course, I mean the citizens of Serbia, not just the members of the Serbian nation, the Serbian people. We have the answer right now in this second one, so to speak, part of this package of laws relating to public agencies laws, where these very changes, alleged changes and additions, seek to maintain a privileged position of public sector employees. I'm just going to give you one plastic example. Let's say, from the beginning of 2012, and the formation of this ruling coalition that has been going on for six years, if I'm not mistaken, Serbia has reported that there have been 138 public agencies. These all public agencies were then created not only by some legal solutions, but even by sublegal acts, and it was simply a great burden, and so I say, one signal of irrationality, simple hypertrophy, one state apparatus. Today, in these arguments along with these laws, which put emphasis on public agencies reform, on the system of payment classes and on the matrix of salary coefficients, it is said that 40 public agencies are concerned, that it is 1650 employees. I also have to mention that figure of about 450 thousand employees in the public sector, which is a burden. Of course, you can then resort to these European arguments and say that Serbia does not have, as the EU, even below that scale of public servants' burden compared to 100 citizens. This in Europe is about 8.5 employees per 100 citizens, while in Serbia it is 6.4, but precisely the next solution to which we, our parliamentary group, have made an amendment and this very serious remark, I am now saying that the directors of public agencies can be elected for a five-year term and that they are allowed two more mandates. So someone can direct 15 years at a public agency, also be a member of the Management Board, along with that fence that should not be a member of the political party's body. It is another Serbian invention that implements some European standards, and then simply, by imagining one political formula for freezing political function in the way the candidate and current current current governor of the National Bank, the Serbian Central Bank has frozen its high political function as long as its well-paid position as governors lasts. So, I certainly won't, I don't think that women should, if even the men in the state sector and the men who are in power have high salaries, then I won't attack, so to speak, or criticise the governor, because we have in public enterprises and multiple incomes, it's not so much spoken of, but I want to say that it's really high time, after 18 years of functioning the multi-party system in Serbia, that this invention of freezing a political function is simply frozen and abolished in the way that Tomislav Nikolic did and paid, of course, a great political price. So he refused to be president of the ruling political party and thus ruined his political career. So there must be something in this, however, in this dangerous relationship between political parties and luxuriant paid positions in public agencies, in the state administration, which are still paid from citizens' budgets. If it were a different electoral system, it certainly wouldn't be possible, but the electoral system is as it is and candidates for MPs determine the party's peaks and it's a constant system as one of the staff spins from which one and the same people spin in different positions and well-paid positions of power. So, what I'm saying is that we can attack everything here, we can justify everything, either by legal or political arguments, but you, Minister Ruzic, know very well that the system of state administration and public self-government in Serbia is not working. How do you think you can solve it yourself? By burdensome and dysfunction of the system of state administration and centralisation and imposing state tutorship on units of local self-government will be addressed through amendments to the Law on Territorial Organisation. Currently there are 150 municipalities in Serbia, there are 23 cities, and now you think if they will give you to Toplico and Borsko County that their key cities, Prokuplje and Bor have the status of cities, will it simply bloom roses? You know very well that there is regional imbalance in development, in that people have different standards in different municipalities and cities in Serbia, as if we are not living in the same country and that is one big problem. So we can't just praise some municipalities and some cities just because some politicians are from these cities and give priority. You know that municipalities and cities were divided into these four categories of development and that both Bor and Prokuplje are not in the same category of development. You know that in Serbia there are devastated municipalities, and now you have this dysfunctionality, that is, the fact that the municipalities, smaller municipalities, undeveloped municipalities, into large cities, not only in Belgrade, but also in regional centres, go to residents, you mean to resolve it by proposing in this law to form joint services that do not have enough capacity to solve certain municipalities. Is it now, for example, to list some, like, Black Grass, Trade, so they'll team up with a more developed municipality, and then the system of communal or some other jurisdiction, the inspection authority, with the blessing of your ministry will work much better? The problem is that municipalities and cities in Serbia are not living communities where solidarity of citizens works. These are by the grace of a political line of municipalities or cities that are privileged because they receive larger transfers from the state budget. That's Belgrade. That's what Nis might be. Some, like Nisu, are entitled to operate a local airport, but simply, I say, Serbia cannot develop as a whole. Citizens cannot be satisfied with life in Serbia, they cannot be aware that they live in one country if this is how competition, unprincipled competition between different municipalities and cities is potent. In the end, we will have simple urban and rural agglomerates, not citizens. So, just because you live in southern Serbia, you don't live perhaps in the more developed north, your life will be much harder, much worse. That closeness, political closeness with Belgrade is devastating, because if it weren't for that, we, most MPs, would not be from Belgrade and developed cities either. There are municipalities that have never had MPs in the Republic Parliament since 1990. So I'm pointing you to something that should be the essence. So, we need to define what our destiny is, to manage Serbia centralistly, absolutely, that one man decides on everything and he says – this way we will go, and now we can take Nislim Airport because we have signed a concession with a foreign investor who will make money, and we can also go as we are used to, centralist-Oligarchic, or that there is now a political oligarchy, which manages and distributes funds from budgets or cities. So it's not good. You know well that you will come or have already come into a situation to impose temporary measures, to call some elections in some municipalities when their time is not. You know that currently in Alibunar, a session of the Assembly cannot be held because some council members have disappeared overnight. There have been such incidents in both the White Church and India and there will be them. I just want to tell you that the citizens are very aware, but they can't all be centralized and everything from Belgrade can't be solved. No laws can be passed that will implement a pay-grade editor and those coefficients, these matrixes, when further partitioning, i.e. placing party personnel on key positions in public agencies, is a problem. Here, I'm going to give you another symptomatic example, because I think citizens understand that best, an example of how to manage these public agencies. The symptomatic example was recently, a year ago, the case of Zeljko Sertic, who became V.D. from the post of Minister of Industry. The director of Serbia's newly formed Development Agency and then, after a while, decided to be on the board of the bank of a powerful foreign country and then the Anti-Corruption Agency said it couldn't, that it was a conflict of interest. It's simple, then he found a solution to be a counselor and then eventually he defined himself not to be even a functioner, but to be on a well-paid board of directors. I'm saying that Serbia is nobody's party property, so to speak. So, parties and this partying and this constant spin to move from one position to another, to freeze political functions will not bring Serbia well, and so be the first minister to possibly stand up to it. You've been very critical of your political activity for a period of time, although you've been part of the government, and you've criticised the government, but don't make such compromises, because it won't do the local self-government any good. It takes place in all political lines, in all teams of public agencies. Today we have a debate on a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. This is where the Trustee, Protector and Manuel, the data protector of the citizens' personality, already clashed. So, I mean, the citizens are already tired of that continuing conflict for a piece of power, for a well-paid position. That's what Serbia can't take anymore. You, indeed, if you want to develop Serbia, you have to rip that, I say, for decades established system of government. You must be more determined to encourage local self-government. You travel through Serbia, share and various, so to speak, development funds, but we recently voted here, here, last week, in fact not me, the ruling majority voted in favour of new loans from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 160 million, which are aimed at precisely that reform of the state administration. I'm telling you this is not going to work out, that Serbia needs to strengthen every municipality, not to look at Belgrade as a political god. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38954	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38955	Thank you. First of all, as far as this is concerned, I would say, good ideas, where, as I said, we are sort of correcting both injustice and we are practically seeking to round up the entire territorial organisation in the right way and what the MPs have proposed as amendments and additions to the Law on Territorial Organization, so MPs Kovacevic, Mihajlović, Radenkovic and Laketić, it is easy to politicise the issue, but I believe that the only rational solution is to sit down the last two municipalities that are the headquarters of the administrative districts get the status of the city. It's something that makes perfect sense. As for criticism of a provision in the Law on Local Self-Government, which allows inter-municipal co-operation, I don't see what could be wrong with that. If some local self-government is missing in capacity or potential, and they want to do some original or trusted business, or plastically speaking, one municipality has a mechanism, the other has designers, or they can do together some secondary, plumbing network, they can do some infrastructure project, is it bad or is it good? I think that provision is quite good without talking about it being for example. The collection of garbage treatment or treatment of that garbage must certainly work on the territory of several units of local self-government. This practically opens up the possibility of signing the agreement among municipalities, where supervision will be done by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and consent is given to the government, they achieve objectives, and thus, to streamline, optimise this work and save them. What is due to the public here to say, and as regards the Ministry of which I am headed, but of course I also consider the states of Serbia, it is not correct and it is not right, to lead citizens and citizens of Serbia astray about the situation, the "supply state", in the municipality of Paracin. I'm not saying that you do, but the abuse of the position where the president of the municipality is located, in the monitoring committee of the Congress of the Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, simply led to the fact that the rose state of Serbia, very unfounded, is talking about something that didn't happen. What is evidence of this is that the request that the president of the municipality is concerned has legitimately referred it to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, quite different from the request he made to Congress. You know, when you get out of your country's borders and try to frame your country and your operating system in it, that's enough to say that it's a political couple of excellencies of activity, because everything here is being spoken in the condicional. So, one of the MPs in this house spoke and called for the introduction of a temporary body or temporary measures in the Paracino municipality based, of course, on a large number of signatures, which are once again the signatures of citizens, which have been collected by a political party in the Paracino municipality, which, of course, I was here, I think you were here, is not the basis for the introduction of temporary measures in the municipality. But I also said at the time that it was a clear political message, but if I'm not mistaken, and we're all witnesses here, it didn't happen, and that's exactly what these alleged dangers indicate. And what's important is to point out that he's a member of 85. The law on local self-government in that sense is very clear. There are three levels or three ways and conditions to introduce temporary measures and that the government of the Republic of Serbia practically adopts a decision on a five-member provisional body. So none of these three cases have occurred, and subsequently, there is no basis to falsely speak and to write complaints that do not correspond to the truth with their content. That's what's certainly inadmissible. It is also unacceptable to talk about the fact that the Paracin municipality has been disabled in employment and that this is the case for obstruction of local services, because, according to our analysis, in the previous two years, the Ministry has made 16 requests, 16 proposals for employment consent in the Municipality of Paracin. By the way, once a month it is decided on the government's commission. And during this period, the Paracino municipality received agreement for the employment of 13 persons indefinitely and 35 persons at a certain time. These figures point to a relatively favourable position of the Paracino municipality compared to some other municipalities where the ruling coalitions are not from, come on, I'll say, opposition parties. What is extremely inadmissible is that such a complaint, which is supposed to be based on the law, is used to talk about political history in Serbia, about some political murders, illegal arrests by political opponents, etc. So, in a situation where there is no action taken in accordance with the law, which would lead to the resolution of SO Paracin, there is no excuse to speak about the cartoons of the democratic political system, which is one of the sentiments written in that appeal, or even the dictatorial regime in Serbia. Otherwise, the monitoring of the Council of Europe's mission has established in their findings the application of democratic standards in the local self-government system in the Republic of Serbia and the SO-decommissioning institute, i.e. units of local self-government only applied exclusively and of course, only in situations where the conditions laid down in law were uncontested. Of course, according to its work cycle, the Ministry monitors the application of regulations in the area of the local self-government system, suggests illegalities in the work of the unit's local self-government body when it comes to them, oversees the work of the local self-government authority and takes appropriate measures and activities for which the law has been authorised. I think that those who do something like this, this is my, well, abuse the pay phone, but my political assessment, those who in this way are muddying their country, would simply have to have at least a little shame when they take a measure that is not based on either the truth, in any of the moves, in any of the activities, or in any of the laws, and especially not to give political assessments about what is totally the opposite of the findings, here, now, in this particular case, just monitoring committees and the General Council of Europe, in the field of functioning of local self-government or local authorities in Serbia. (Alexander Martinovic: Replica. I'm mentioned. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38956	Yeah, you're not on the list here. Someone check out so I can give my word to Parliamentarian Martinovic. I'll delete the list. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I didn't really understand Mrs. Vukomanovic's discussion until the end, she spoke some bureaucratic language, I think that's what Comrade Tito said when he replaced Mark Nikezic and Latina Perovic, in some phrases that I thought were part of our political past. I don't think it's man's greatest sin if it belongs to a political party. If someone does their job well, if he's a successful director, if he's a successful minister, if he's a successful manager, if he has results behind him, I don't see that the problem is that he belongs to this or that political party. What surprises me is the detachment. It's a modern term now. I see that all those who were very struggling to introduce a multi-party system into Serbia now have the biggest problem with them seems to be the existence of political parties, probably because they belong to minor political parties that mean nothing in Serbia's political life. I'm surprised that Mrs. Vukomanovic didn't think of the time when her party's president Vuk Jeremic, was foreign minister, so I don't think that a cleaning lady in a public company could get a job if she wasn't a member of the party that Mr. Vuk Jeremic belonged to at the time. You who talk about department today, about morality, about how crime should be contained, would be good to explain where all that money came from to Vuk Jeremic from some Chinese companies from Hong Kong, a little bit from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin, a little from here, a little bit from there, all of which went up in about $20.30 million. You say Serbia is managed by centralised, absolute, no regional, balanced regional development...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38958	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38959	I'm done. Mr. Alexander Vukic has opened over 150 factories from Subotica to Vladic's Han. We show how balanced regional development is done. The new Lidla plant in Novi Paza opened today. So, simply, what you're saying is wrong, and I think that the expression is more of your political impotence and political inadequacy than it corresponds to the real facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38960	Thank you. The word has a national envoy, Studenka Kovacevic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38961	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Because of the citizens, however, I will explain that by obtaining the status of the city, we will have a greater opportunity to apply to international projects, a greater opportunity to access international funds, that we will have increased transfer funds based on the profit tax, which means that 13% more money will be poured into the local budget, i.e. for the Borian budget, that is 200 million dinars more. It's quite a sum to us, and it's going to mean something to us, because we're expecting serious infrastructure projects, so it's important that we have better access to these funds and that everything we can from money in some way land in the local budget. It's very important to us, and it'll be easier for us anyway. The local administration will be organised differently by obtaining the status of the city and will therefore be easier and better suited to the needs of the citizens of Bor, so that honey and milk may not flow, but we strive to make our lives as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38962	First of all, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38963	The Honorable Chairman, I will say immediately, I do not think that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, but I do not see any other way to report and use the right to present several facts and arguments, because here it is said that the government of the Republic of Serbia is not paying equal attention to every municipality and every city in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. However, reality is quite different. In front of one very important international struggle led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have, on the other hand, representatives of certain local municipalities from the opposition ranks at the republican level who, speaking poorly about their country, were specifically talking about the Council of Europe, presenting, above all, the untrue, trying to present chaos in Serbia, trying to imagine that the institutions of the system do not function in Serbia, with the aim of destabilising Serbia, in fact wanting only one thing, which is to preserve their chairs and their political functions. Here were some complaints addressed to the Council of Europe, the very fact that these complaints were first in public, and that the Secretariat of the Council of Europe and the relevant institutions was then familiar enough to say that it was a means of political struggle. How much unbalanced attention is being paid, which is why, above all, I have reported to one municipality, specifically to the Paracino municipality, I will only provide one piece of information, because I think it is important for the public. Therefore, the allegations of pressures seen in the prevention of the unemployed are completely rejected, thus obstructing local services. In the previous two years, the ministry submitted 16 proposals. The proposals are on the monthly level for consent and employment in the municipality services, specifically Parachin. During this period, the Paracino municipality was agreed to employ 13 individuals indefinitely and 35 people at a certain time. These data suggest far more favourable treatment of the Paracino municipality compared to some other municipalities and cities on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is the right for everyone to have a basis for some political struggle, but they must not suffer citizens. My well-intentioned advice is to them, so why, if they think they're so right, why don't they check their will in some of the upcoming local elections? If they're right, the citizens will see it, they will confirm it in the local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38964	The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38965	Thank you. I really want to point out the best examples. It is just one of the opposition municipalities and an example, how can I say, good governance, and this has certainly affected this new proposed solution that five percent of citizens with voting rights have the right to citizens' initiative. I would remind, for example, that in December the Sabac organised a referendum in 24 rural local communities where citizens, or rural residents, decided on what money from property tax would be spent on. So let's not divide into good or bad controllers on political lines. Let us not now say that nothing is wrong and that they cannot rule opposition political parties that are in certain municipalities or cities, and that where the government is all flourishing. You know we're all in trouble together, but we're also in trouble the way you don't want to solve it in a democratic way, within Serbia, so there have to be some kind of mechanisms, like this mechanism. So, on June 28th, Vidovdan, a debate will be held in the Committee, some recommendations and conclusions will be made on the agenda later and on the table to discuss the foreign ministers of the 47 members of the Council of Europe and Serbia will have to respond, then Minister Dacic, if he is present at that meeting of foreign ministers, will respond, if it is not already Minister Ruzic, in one way, if he starts a different mechanism. So we can't do anything, this isn't a dark fairy. This is the 21st century. You can't hide it to centralize Serbia on political lines.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38966	Based on what? (Miroslav Aleksic: MP Martinovic mentioned the party. Which party? (Miroslav Aleksic throws.) It's not your party that's mentioned, it's the Wolf of Jeremic. Two parliamentary groups and each reporting for Vuk Jeremic. The word of the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38967	Thank you. President, you've done several injuries to Article 103. The last time you didn't give me your word right after I asked for it, and I wanted to draw attention to the fact that during the presentation of the previous speaker, Vice President Milicevic, you violated the Rules of Procedure on two occasions, the same article 103. In fact, MP Milicevic said at the very beginning of his presentation that he had no intention of indicating that you had violated the Rules of Procedure, but that he had reported that he was replicating it. So he announced that his exposure on this basis would actually be abuse of the Rules of Procedure and abuse of the right to point to a mistake in your conduct. You, however, have allowed him, despite announcing that he has no intention of doing what his duty is to say on this basis, you have allowed him to finish his two-time exposure, which is the second violation of the Rules of Procedure, because he can only speak for two minutes, in which he has more or less muddyed people who do not belong to the ruling party who are leading the entire six local self-government in Serbia, but it is obviously too much for the ruling coalition. The third thing, the third moment when you broke the Rules of Procedure, is that you did not explain to Ambassador Milicevic whether you felt that you had really violated the Rules of Procedure, and you were obliged to do so, nor did you ask him whether he wanted the National Assembly to plead, nor did you give him notice, or did you take two minutes away from his MP group, which you were also obliged to do. If those rules apply to everyone, no problem, just say ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38968	Okay. Thank you. It won't apply to all those rules. He said -- I can't exactly say that you hurt the Rules of Procedure, not what you just said. You made up exactly what he said. He continued to explain that MP Dijana Vukomanovic made false allegations in her presentation and shook my hand that she did not want us to plead. I don't care, if it's necessary, we'll also plead on that injury to the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you can plead if you want us to vote on the injury? (Yes) Thank you. The word is Blaža Knezevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38969	Article 108 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. So, the previous pay phone was untrue here at the time of her debate, especially with regard to the money allocated to local communities in the Municipality of Sabac, the former municipality and now the city. In 2000. The Democratic Party came to power in Capco. From 2000 to 2012, when both republican and local authorities made no investment in the town of Sabac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38970	Ambassador, please don't open the line of lines now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38971	Alexander Vukic is the only one who brought the investment to Shabac. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38972	I ask the MPs not to use the Rules of Procedure as an opportunity to replicate each other. I'm going to set a break, because I really can't establish order otherwise. I'm not gonna set a break right now, I'm just saying that's all I have left. Don't yell, please, you're not interested in anyone with that yelling and throwing. You're just showing your picture. Let me run a session and explain to the MPs why I turned off the microphone. It's nothing funny. You can't get into a situation where you run a national parliament, so it's funny to you, and I consider this a responsible job. The word is Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38973	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the people, honored guests, respected citizens of Serbia, here, at the risk of starting to remind myself of that Katun of the Elder, I have to mention something I practically mention every time I answer my word here. Unfortunately, every time I have many reasons for that, and I can add, with some satisfaction, that many other fellow MPs from various parliamentary groups have joined me today, and that is that the way this session is also called together, and practically all the sessions, I don't know whether to say more in the last half of the year or how inappropriate, unserious and unworthy of the work of a parliament. This is again a session that was called today for tomorrow, or yesterday for today, with a lot of material, completely diverse, where we should talk about various topics today. So, on the local self-government, on the parent books, on the confirmation of the Protocol of the European Charter, on the choice of governors, on national minorities, on the use of language and on letters, on the election of the President of the Courts. It's all united and I've already heard some demands today to explain why it's even possible to unite in a debate? Of course we didn't get the answer, but I don't think this is right. After all, if nothing else, we should at least wonder what kind of example this Assembly gives to the citizens of Serbia and how any institution in the state can function well, if the Assembly can't. I know that we do not, here, mention that, among other things, such a long parliamentary transition, unfortunately does not encourage our 13th-century parliament as some other European one, but that does not mean that we should keep doing it the way we shouldn't. And I'll point to that every time. As for these laws proposed for today's session, it is difficult, of course, to assess everything in one presentation. It's easy to say that there are really good solutions here, lots of good solutions, solutions that aren't so good, but, in fact, if those solutions are really going to be good or not, I really ask my colleagues to stop talking like this, I know they feel this is just their own house, but that's no reason to behave like this in the middle of a talk about, I think, very important topics. I'd like to ask the chairman to respond if he sees them and notices them. No, you don't. Okay, no problem, I'll keep going. So, if these solutions are good or bad, much depends on how they are applied. We seem to know well that we do not always have a problem with law making, but it is very often a problem and its application, and it is certain that this application of the law would be far better and simpler if this discussion were to be held differently, to read all the amendments, to discuss them, to perhaps adopt some, etc. I'd like to start with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. First of all, I must say that many municipalities in Serbia function similarly to the example of this Assembly, to convene sessions sometimes within a short period of time with the delivery of extensive material several days or a few days before the session, which is certainly inappropriate. As for funding and recent recent changes in funding modes, there were some ironic comments that in the jurisdiction of the municipalities only the cemetery and the market remained. Of course, it's not a good solution, but it's in line with those solutions that are potentially leading to a growing centralisation and a growing partocrat, which we wouldn't want to do anyway. Our parliamentary group advocates a more direct application of democracy and the attitude of citizens towards all the structures of government, so we would like, above all, to propose some of this to our amendments, some of which, even some of the proposals of the law, we have proposed that both the mayors and the presidents of the municipalities be directly elected. We believe above all that this would encourage politicians to take less care of the interests of the party headquarters, and more of the interest of citizens, and that would certainly in this way be personal quality, which was just mentioned, and very often we hear about it here... Here, counterpart Martinovic, for example, mentioned that it was not the party's problem. Well, it's not a party issue, of course, but it's a problem when you're always thinking party and party soldier, and you don't think about it except, we often have examples here every day about it, when it's only at the expense of the party, and you don't think much about citizens and you don't appreciate that personal quality enough. Also, if we were to adopt this kind of election then it could not happen to us that, let's say, we're waiting to find out the mayor's name for three months and guess who's going to be mayor, because if, say, the ruling majority of us were to rise to the fact that their president was elected by the great support of citizens, then why wouldn't we let the mayors choose in this way and, say, the president of the municipalities? We believe that this would be a major step in favour of democracy and precisely that it appreciates the personal quality and quality of the one who is in a particular function in power, not just party membership, as it is today. As far as individual solutions are concerned, unfortunately, as I said, there's not much time to talk about it. I'll mention something individually. So there are solutions that can be applied in a good way or in a bad way. Much depends on how she delivers the results. Let's say in Article 3 of this law, Section 6, where a local self-government unit is said to monitor the process of European integration, etc. This opens up opportunities and, of course, abuses and party employment. Also, where it is said that the committee has the right to be informed about matters of importance, etc., this information is often difficult to come up with and is often long waiting for answers to parliamentary questions, which are also often slow and unsatisfactory. Article 20, which refers to the appointment of the president of the municipality, also gives great and broad authority to the president of the municipality. As regards Article 35, which is proposed by Article 88g. The co-operation agreement that the local self-government unit gives jobs to another, provides funding, etc. there may also occur abuses, therefore, a list of jobs in Article 39, etc. Security is provided by the Ministry. So these are also laws, and I also mean the Law on Parent Books, which again gives broad powers to the minister. As well as which minister will use them, I think it depends heavily on the minister himself. I will not quote everything now, but let's say in Article 2 where the minister determines the criteria and where the expert exam is based on the programs defined by the minister, where the ministry takes over data from the register, where it is therefore also sensitive data, where various abuses can occur, etc. where the parent destroyed book is restored on a basis, also in a manner determined by the minister etc. I will also mention article 42, where the deadline of 12 months for issuing certain certificates is inappropriately due. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Agencys, I found it interesting to be a member of the 15th that says – Article 46 adds the position 4 which reads – Minister in charge of Finance Affairs, I think we've just chosen this minister these days, will be closer to sorting out the way and content of the report on expenditures for employees of the public agency, etc. Then, in the end, Article 21 says that the law takes effect on the eighth day, as usual, but says – except for Article 15, which applies from the date of entry into force of this law. I am very interested in what is so urgent that this member must be singled out, and that he must start to apply immediately, not since 1 January 2019, as well as the whole law. As regards the law on salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations, etc. I am now sorry about most of my colleagues for having to say this as someone who is not employed here in the Assembly, but is employed by a private company, but in any case, I do not underestimate the work of an MP who is extremely difficult and demanding and difficult. That's exactly what I said at the beginning, what everything is asked of us, in 24 hours what we need to do, etc. So I believe that if there is impatience in the people towards, say, the MPs and some opinion that they are not doing good and enough, I certainly do not share that opinion, at least not for all MPs. If such an opinion exists, I think it is the most guilty government, but I think it is immoral to deal with such a law, and before that, the law and pensions of the pensioners, who certainly deserve to be solved before this. In the end, just to add that Jorgenka Tabakovic entered her first term by saying, by promising to cut her salary by at least a quarter, so I would like to ask her, although she is not there right now – is she doing it and is she planning to do something like that again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38974	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38975	I thank the president. Dear Mr. Minister, the respected representatives of the ministry today we are discussing in a united procedure of 14 different and legal proposals and other decisions and it is not strange for us sitting here for the last two years. These are the new methods of working and continuing the collapse of all institutions, starting with the largest legislative body of this country, which is the National Assembly. At first, I would like to commend the ministers of you and your associates on their commitment and desire to present as best possible the legislative proposals that you today defend here in Parliament and on this flyer as you have done. So far, no one has done this before, so probably some colleagues might, in these circumstances, when you don't have time to discuss it in principle, not in particular on legal proposals, at least in this way, to imagine what they want to do with the laws, but I believe it won't be a practice in the next period, because it's not the idea of transparency. The idea is that the more things go invisible under the radar, so that citizens don't get to know all the devastating decisions made by this government, the government, and the Assembly. You told Mr. Minister that it's been waiting a long time for these laws to enter the procedure and that's true. It's been waiting long and long before it's been necessary to change these laws, especially the Law on Local Self-Government, but that wasn't enough reason not to go in yesterday. So, yesterday, we were called as MPs to discuss 14 points of the agenda. Now, you can't expect, of course, that those who wanted to commit more seriously to these points of the agenda and the laws, to be more serious and prepared, but I hope that we can at least say the basic things. If not today in principle, then in the discussion in particular, when we can only obviously discuss the details of the law on local self-government. So you said the key word and sentence when you said that units of local self-government and state administration should become the service of Serbian citizens. That is true, I absolutely support it and that is something on the wings that in 2012 SNS led by Alexander Vukic and came to power. With stories of major reforms, that the state will become a service of citizens, that corruption will be rooted out and all sorts of stories that when we look at after six years, I'm not sure they can look themselves in the mirror and say that, we did that, that and that. You didn't do it because politics today is above the institutions of state and system. Now, when someone says, well, that was before, all right, so be it. If it's not good, I guess in 2012, which you promised a better life, a more prosperous Serbia, you came here to fix that exactly, so that institutions build, rather than break down, that politics is not above the interests of society, above the interests of the system. That's why Mr. Ruzic, whatever you say today about your legal proposals, first of all about this local self-government, because I've been the president of the municipality myself for four years, and how I know what problems the mayors and presidents of the municipalities in Serbia face, I'm not sure you'll be able to achieve this effect that you're seeking, which is that the state becomes a service of citizens, because one property does not make spring. Until the whole system is created, until there are wishes and wills in this country to truly respect and build institutions, create a new system of values, that competent people are placed in certain places, there is no result. Today, the goal is subject to a political goal. The goal of this government today is just to win the election, to compete with itself, to say we won 45, 50, 46%. What are the results of this, how do you live in Serbia? They will hardly be interested in it until their ratings begin to fall and until citizens slowly begin to regain consciousness and become out of this great hypnosis that they have introduced thanks to the regimeal media. As far as these laws are concerned, the ones we can talk about is certainly this Law on Local Self-Government, and there are a lot of things that I can praise that change, some in part, some of which I think they should have changed in these amendments of the law, you haven't included them. I'll try, when we have a debate on the amendments, to suggest some of them. I can also support the fact that you have defined the number of officials in line with the number of residents in a local community. I can support civil initiatives that will now be much easier to apply. I can also support the fact that you have partially solved the problem of local communities. I purposely say in part and relations with local communities, because I suggest here who knows how many times, but certainly two years ago, that the Law on Obligability and the financing of local communities should be included in the procedure. So unless you have a financially independent local community, you can't even say that you have functional local communities. The Law on the financing of local self-government does not provide here for local communities to have their own incomes to own and to establish their own priorities. We, on occasion, returned some of our property tax from a certain territory of local self-government to local communities to decide what they would invest in. I can also support you here. Of course, I can't support you, because you missed the opportunity to agree in this law the Law on Local Self-Government with the Law on Student and Student Standard and that the presidents of the municipalities, the mayors can grant students and students not to break the law, so consider it for the future. All the things I'm talking about right now and I'm boasting won't be enough to fix the situation in local self-government and, as you said, they become a citizen service. Why? Because in the last six years, financial and humane degradation and degradation of units of local self-government have been carried out, and I will explain to you how, and this is a key problem for you to say that you have effective local self-governments that operate in accordance with the law and that are there to serve needs and meet the needs of Serbian citizens. Therefore, since 2012 or 2014, the state authorities have brought municipalities and cities to the mere perpetrators. So they were reduced by the Law on the financing of units of local self-government funds belonging to citizens living in municipalities and cities in Serbia. Now, when you look at how the ratio of the total funds between the central level of government and the local level of government is moving, you will see that since 2012, a percentage of the funds that has been defined for local environments from 17.7% of how much they belonged in 2012, we have come to 11% of how much funds remain today by local self-governments. So all municipalities and cities in Serbia are working to save some money and that someone who today has a paw over the central register could spend it however they want. Practice in the EU, you know very well, by 30%, depending on the country to the country, goes to the units of local self-government, in some developed countries, even half of the budget is directed to units of local self-government, so both municipalities and cities have suffered the burden of fiscal consolidation, as well as citizens of Serbia whose government has dragged their hand into the pocket as deep as anyone before. Of course, in such a way and the type of funding did not foresee the European Charter that you are referring to these laws where the largest financial independence of local self-government units is also defined. But you have a reverse thing, you have total financial dependence and you have a situation that the state is increasingly centralized, that is, to be decentralised as it used to be in campaigns all over the last six years. When you have dependent local self-government, when you don't have a system and you don't have institutions, then you have local sheriffs. The local sheriff, mentioned again today by the parties, says: we have a local sheriff in Bruce who has been accused of sexual harassment, malfeasances with the sale of construction land Milutin Jelicic, so you have Radomir Nikolic's accidental spending of money, so Nenad Milenković Sremski Karlovci spent a million and a half on cafes, so Cedomir Christmas unintentional spending of money, so Pera Milankov Nova Crnja sentenced 22 months in prison for bribery, etc. etc. Then you have one key sentence, says – Sanja Stajic of Merošina, violated the party statute. Minister, the presidents of the municipalities do not violate the party statutes, but adhere to the laws and regulations that you propose here. No policy can be above the interest of the state and the system that this country is building. I can understand that you are reacting if a citizen or a committee member receives such a response from Mayor Radomer Nikolic, and the answer regarding the parliamentary issue set at the Assembly on 9 May of this year, where the mayor answers with – the mayor has a lot of advisors. That's the answer. So, for those things, someone should definitely answer. Also, Mr. Minister, you sent me an answer to a parliamentary question about the situation in Vladimirac, where you have two congregations, where you have two presidents, where you have a completely disrupted system and you told me that then, here it is in front of me a document, that a valid assembly in which the previous president of the Assembly was appointed and that these others should rule the Vladimirs. They don't rule they're still the old government in practice and there's still the old president of the municipality. I'm telling you this because the law didn't provide for a few other criteria for introducing temporary measures and that you put that on quite leniently so that you could introduce temporary measures, not that you had to when some legal principles were violated. And as part of that, I have to say that in addition to this financial problem facing cities and municipalities, and it's really not small, because you've had the situation for the last few years that billions from the central register have been transferred to similar community presidents. The ones they call local sheriffs today, the ones I read all about. They were getting money for liquid liquidity and that means they have to come and kiss someone in Belgrade for their money. Then you had a situation that, in early October 2017, 480 million were given to Zajecar, Cačka, 10 million to Belgrade. At the end of 2016, two and a half billion, Minister Ruzic, the need to implement commitments due to a reduced volume of income from individual units of local self-government, Nisa 260 million, Kragujevac 220 million, Novi Sad 190 million, Jagodina 130 million, Zajecaru 115, Vienna 106, Vranja 100 million etc. There's no Minister's system. There's no institution there. Here is the law of the mighty, the one who is today the alpha and the omega with whom the money is. He decides, he has not yet begun to decide what time he will be in Serbia, let alone that equal cities and municipalities in which opposition parties are in power, such as Paracino, such as Sapac, Cicevic and other places. You know, that is the essence of the problem even when the European Commission is involved in solving this problem and when the Council of Europe says that in Turkey on June 28th it will discuss the government's relationship with these municipalities, you should not be surprised. It's not your people's fault. Someone needs to protect them. You ministers are obliged to take care of the presidents of the municipalities and the mayors and to side with them. You are their representative in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not to say that they are embarrassing the state of Serbia by complaining to the Council of Europe. They complain to the Council of Europe because they have no one in their own country to complain and must complain to Europe and the world. As far as the Public Agency Act is concerned. We heard here today from our colleagues here what the situation is, and I will read only one quote, a statement by President Vukic, then prime minister, who said: "Deduction of the number of MPs, reduction of ministries to 15, reduction of the number of agencies, institutes, bureaus and councils from 136 to less than 50, lifting the functions of state secretaries. This will save us huge money, not just tens of millions of euros, but more than a hundred million euros. “ I ask you, Minister Rose, do you know how many of these bodies we have today, and if it has been abolished, how many have been abolished and shut down, if not why not? And why did President Vukic, then prime minister, lie that it would all end and save hundreds of millions of euros? That's what I'm asking you because they're spending money today, big money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Well, for example, only in the Energy Agency, the President of the Energy Agency's salary is three thousand euros, and the Council's salary will be two and a half thousand euros, only in one agency, not to mention other agencies, here's, let's say, the Transport Safety Agency, 150 thousand directors, executives from 122 to 133 thousand. They have higher salaries than both the president of the state and ministers and all the other people. So that's about six years from now nothing's changed. And now you're saying today, the government says they shouldn't be protesting raspberries, vegetables, warlords, fruit trees and others because of low prices and poor agricultural conditions, that citizens shouldn't protest because fuel is the most expensive in the region, you don't do anything to make it easier for them, but that's why they've been gardening for six years, and public enterprises and agencies and everyone else. So it's this system that you don't or don't know how to change all these six years. Finally, here, you also have the office of former President Tomislav Nikolic, who received a budget of about 1m euros for co-operation with China and Russia. Give these money to farmers, give young students and scholarships, that would give far greater effects than it will allow someone to take care and receive a salary of 150,000 dinars today and plus 45,000 for a separate life from their family. Of course, I can't help but mention that some of these agencies don't know what they're doing. Here is, for example, the Export Insurance and Finance Agency, which is scheduled to assist the export of the Republic of Serbia and the export company, in a number of tranches, has given Pink 10m euros from 2014 to 2017. So, the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance gave TV 10m euros in loans and loans over a three-year period, a pair of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's their money. It is not market money, so that the banks take "Pink" or someone else and pay high interest, it is the money of Serbian citizens. That is why citizens should protest against such a regime, because only on their backs is the burden of reform, and these others continue to be gardening in the state of Serbia. Of course, when we talk about choosing governors, vice governors, I'll also show one great efficiency both in the Assembly and in the state. As for the proposal for a vice governor to be elected these days, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so this home, held at a session held on 22 March this year, made a decision to elect a director of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority and appointed as director of a man who is now to be the vice governor of the National Bank. At last session on May 28th, so, a few days or two weeks ago, you suspended that body. So you put a man three months ago and a little over three months ago as the director of the body that you've abolished in three months and now you're setting him up as a vice governor. Of course, as regards the proposal for governor, we heard today various moral assessments of Mrs. Tabakovic's candidate and her affairs, which and how she had ties to the morale and that Telecom paid off her 70,000-euro apartment, that "Farmacom" had given her 25m euros, that her daughter was director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and that the official driver was driving from Novi Sad to Belgrade to pass the exams, that she had taken a secretary at the Embassy in Rome, that she had ordered various footings, whiskey, peanuts for her employees in the bank and, of course, it was not all disputed that she would get a five-year term again, probably because she had recently hired Nikola Popovic in the National Bank, the brother of the wife Andrej Vukic, so she probably replaced all these previous problems she had. By the way, her salary is 537 thousand, vice governors 424 thousand, other employees from 200 to 300,000 dinars. When you set things up and send such messages to the citizens, Minister, make sure that the citizens will eventually come to their senses. Neither will this "Pink" that took 10 million, nor all these other pro-regime media manage to cloud that fact and what I'm talking about today, and I could tell you for hours, and that you're going to violate it, that the Serbian Parliament will violate the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, because two candidates have been sent to the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee for Anti-Corruption, because you want to demoste it, too, because the processes there have also been staged against Tomislav Nikolic and Sinishi Mali and Alexander Vulin. Eleven officials were hit by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Some of them are opposed to the prosecution and submitted applications, but nothing on this matter is done because you are the government and you believe that while you are in power, you can do whatever you want, you can boast as much as you want and abuse the functions of personal wealth. Get rid of it. First, start from the opposition and those who were in power earlier, adopt the Property Origin Act, and then file accounts for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38976	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38977	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. The speaker at the session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I think it was necessary to interrupt the previous speaker, especially at the time he started talking about budget cuts to local self-governments because in 2014, he was the most paid president of Triestenik Municipality. At the time when the average salary in Tristenik was 34,587 dinars, he set for himself a salary of 113,000 dinars, which was witnessed by the chief of the municipal administration's report. Furthermore, the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done at the moment when it began to present information on someone's moral credibility, and this is the person on the Anti-Corruption Authority's website that says - the measure of public publication of a decision on the violation of the Anti-Corruption Act. So the MP who directly violated the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which is the official and final decision on the site, speaks of someone's credibility. It's also the person whose first job is principal, who he worked with in high school. If we're talking credibility, silent morality, scruples, please keep that in mind next time, and I think it was necessary to interrupt the speaker when he started talking about it. There were also talks about local communities. When it comes to the municipality of Trstenik, and there is a report by the state auditor, which speaks about irregularities in the work of the municipality of Trstenik, therefore, about loans raised and non-intentional, about local communities which also recorded fuel costs and did not own cars, the municipality of Trstenik did not oversee the spending of local community funds, so it is extremely unscrupulous to talk about someone's work and assess the work of local sheriffs, when we have one example, but it is likely that it is also the former president of the municipality, precisely because of this kind of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38978	Thank you, colleague Turk. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Gjorge Komlenski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38979	I was looking for a replica, the chairman. It's about Alexander Vulin in a negative context. If you haven't followed the session, look at the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38980	The point is, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38981	Thank you. What about the truths spoken by using the term in this home, as it reads "stopped"? It's just extreme insolence. The public prosecutor's office has examined in two levels the doubts and reports of the Anti-Corruption Agency and rejected criminal charges as unfounded, but I don't know how the unfortunate Juliana, who was planted by the "sponsor" to sign for it, raises money in the NGO sector and ends the dirty work, and I hope that he will not escape justice in any way and that the prosecution will take over prosecution and against it, not only against Juliana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38982	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go, Dr. Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38983	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, guests, the strategic plan of the Republic of Serbia is integration into Europe and the harmonisation of our legislation with Europe. Minority communities living in our Republic are the engine of European integration, and we point out in every place, as we point out, that Serbia is part of the European cultural and political and civilization space. I believe that today's amendments and additions to the proposed laws are a step in that direction. The return of unequivocal importance to local communities, as well as the clear definition of the role and competence of local communities adopted by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, is something that we, as a party, will support for equal regional development and even development of each local self-government. Amendments and additions to the Law on Parent Books bring a very good opportunity to enter data on nationality in the birth certificate. This information could not have been included in the parent books so far, as has been defined by the Action Plan for the exercise of the rights of national minorities. As a result of the need for harmonisation among laws governing the rights of members of national minorities, the introduction of data on nationality into all public records and registers, as a principle of volunteering, is the most significant paper in the work in the parent books of the born. A set of laws relating to the acquired and guaranteed rights of national minorities, which I hope will continue to promote, focused on national minorities, their political representatives over the past year. The proposal to amend and supplement the National Minority Councils Act was preceded by an intense public debate and several round tables in Novi Sad, Novi Pazar, Belgrade, Petrovac at Mlava, which is something that is very good and should be commended. I attended one of these meetings and it was really constructive and there was nothing to hear. The development of legislation related to this topic and the area of protection and the rights of national minorities is something that has been constantly with us in the last two decades. There has been some slight impasse since 2010, above all in a law that has not well defined how to form as a choice of forming national councils, so some national councils have entered the crisis itself. In 2014, we adopted and amended practically this law that only allowed the change of this electoral system for national councils to allow elections for national councils and we did so very effectively. However, it is said then that this is a temporary solution and that this law really needs to be modernised and brought into line with European principles and I am glad that we are doing so today. One of the key problems in applying the National Minority Councils Act is its discrepancies with other laws. The provisions of other laws have largely suspended and prevented the application of laws and provisions of the National Minority Councils Act, as they have often resolved identical issues with their provisions in a completely different way. That way, it seems to me that we had a problem with certain rights guaranteed by this law not being exercised. So today's changes and additions are very important and they come in time, given that they will get ready very quickly for the national council elections. The bill, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on National Councils, provides some good solutions which will seem to help me to work better and more efficiently on the advice of national minorities. I think that the special quality is public insistence, public emphasis in the work of the Council of National Minorities, and in this sense in Article 14, a brand-new Article 8a is added, which explicitly foresees that the work of national councils is public and that all decisions taken by them must be made public on the media within ten days from the date of their adoption, which I think is very good. This brings greater visibility to the decisions of the council itself, but also better transparency and monitoring of the practical work of each council. This proposal also more precisely regulates the substance of the use of funds obtained by law, which seems to me to be very lacking in the previous law and determines the percentages that are the upper limit for salaries and remuneration of employees, and sets out the second part that is necessary for certain other essential tasks that are being carried out only by the advice of national minorities in areas in which they are authorised by law. In the drafting of this law, we have heard, a bile debate has developed primarily on what the Council of Europe has recommended, that is, its advisory committee, which is the problem of politicising national councils, which was something that was evident. Of course, article 7a has caused and continues to cause bile polemics, and it seems to me for a reason. In any case, politicisation of different councils, different national minorities were and must be reduced to the least possible measure. However, it seems to me that there should be measures in that too, and it seems to me that these proposed solutions of ours have become a little bit more inaccessible. I agree that politically active persons, i.e. members of executive committees, presidents, etc. I can, not have to be presidents or members of the executive board, but it is very difficult that elected persons, I mean committees and MPs, cannot be elected to the Executive Board and cannot be presidents, or most importantly that they cannot be on the Executive Boards. I don't think the council can argue with that. Councilors may even be non-partisan personalities and I think their knowledge, i.e. participation in legislative bodies, is something which is an advantage and something that will facilitate, speed up, improve their participation in the Executive Board in the national councils themselves. In any case, I think the direction in which this bill has given the solution is good and I think that small amendments can make it very quality and acceptable. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on National Councils gives one quality opportunity to committees on education, culture, notification and official use of languages and letters, so that they can select experts who possess appropriate knowledge, experience in areas for which committees are educated. That's a good thing. This law will continue to allow professionals to contribute fully and raise the efficiency of the functioning of these committees and of the councils themselves, not political persons, non-members of the council. The good thing is that this law is also clear on the powers and duties of the President of the National Councils in line with the recommendations of the relevant international bodies. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, it is very good that a clear positive discrimination on employment is introduced in Article 4. Many times in this house I have talked about the unequal representation of national minorities in the state apparatus of the Republic of Serbia, and I am glad that this legal solution brings positive discrimination as a wish for this problem to be resolved. You know that minorities, especially those who are not in the province of Vojvodina, are really weakly represented in the state apparatus and are looking forward to such a definition of such a systemically significant law. We see this as a desire and a tendency to solve the problem of the uneven representation of national minorities in the state apparatus. Also writing in languages, enabling national minorities, i.e. local self-governments with national minorities above 15%, to name streets, squares, settlements and other toponyms, is a significant shift and a significant place in this law and should be commended. Information as one of the guaranteed and rights of national minorities unfortunately is almost not realised in practice, especially as regards national minorities living outside the AP Vojvodina. As of today, RTS has not formed a editorial in languages about national minorities, nor produced media content that promotes the cultural identity of national minorities. It might be appropriate for this law to review the obligation to the public media service of RTS to form a minority language redistribution as soon as possible, as well as to immediately start broadcasting content in the languages of national minorities, which preserve and promote the cultural identity of national minorities. I remind you that once, RTS had these publications that had journals in the languages of national minorities. It can't be called a national minority programme one collegiate-type emissions of 50 minutes being broadcast once a week. We will certainly try to improve the quality of these proposals with amendments. In any case, I want to conclude that the proposed laws are some in the smaller, some in the greater faith to move towards protection and to consume the rights of national minorities, but also to improve, I think, the life of all citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38984	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. National MP Aleksandra Tomic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38985	Mr. Chairman, Article 104(3) says you're giving a word based on replication. You didn't see me, and you didn't give me the right to the line. I called first. I let all my colleagues pass, so please give me back my replica, two minutes, now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38986	Well, I can't, according to the Rules of Procedure, co-worker. You're right, you were in the system...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38987	All right, every time from now on, I'm going to be advertising the Rules of Procedure just because you didn't respect the right of an MP to simply get a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38988	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38989	I had the right to a replica. I waited patiently for 20 minutes to pass the lies spoken by the MPs of Vuk Jeremic, who spoke the worst napkins of insults related to both SNS and Mr Alexander Vukic and that they were talking about how the citizens had finally seen how they would stop all of Serbia, by talking about the price of energy, the price of oil, just those who finance, those who have a company in Hong Kong, who have energy, are today giving us a lecture on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38990	I apologize to you and I really ask you to understand, simply, that I was wrong. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexandra Tomic: No. Thank you. Nedjo Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38991	I thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, at the very beginning of the discussion concerning a set of legislative proposals that we are discussing, I would like to point out that the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will unreservedly support all legislative proposals, as well as personal solutions that form part of everything that will be the subject of our debate. The first law to pay attention today is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, and indeed this law needs to be paid attention for a number of reasons. I must express a sincere satisfaction that you have identified problems in the practical application of the current Law on Local Self-Government, and by recognising these problems, you have given adequate and quality solutions to how to solve these problems. I think that today we could come to the conclusion that both opposition colleagues and we who have reason to support this legal solution recognize system solutions in this law as quality solutions. What is essential and what everyone has come from today is the purpose of the existence of local self - government. The aim of the existence of local self-government is the best way to meet the needs of citizens. Today we heard metaphorically that this is to service the needs of citizens, i.e. that units are local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities services of citizens. Basically they are, but to really be in full capacity, then it takes at least two conditions to meet these needs adequately. In my deep belief, the first condition is the responsibility of the authority at the level of the unit of local self-government, and in order for that responsible authority to meet all the challenges that arise in meeting the needs of citizens, there must be quality legal solutions that apply primarily to their jurisdiction. That's why, dear Minister, I'm sure that through this law, recognising this problem, you've defined the jurisdiction of local self-government in the best way possible. Why am I saying this? Because until now, jurisdiction has been defined in a truly obnoxious and wrong way, because units of local self-government have defined their own tasks and responsibilities in the context of which these transactions will be carried out, and in this way there have been even a number of abuses. They are now defined in a completely different way and they relate to the relevant areas, and these areas are recognised in other system laws, such as the Law on Planning and Construction, such as the Law on Associations, the Law on Community Works, the set of laws relating to social protection, the laws governing primary health care, etc. This solution really represents a qualitative shift forward. What is also due to citizens' need to go as a message, which is why citizens should be satisfied when it comes to the application of this law which will certainly be adopted is the provision of certain rights and responsibilities, the over-creation of the rights and responsibilities of the committees, who now have a far more favourable position in terms of precision of their rights, the prerogative right to be informed by the competent authorities of the local self-government unit, and the fact that they are also carrying out their own committee work responsibly, committed and in full by law. What also merits attention when it comes to the adoption of the law that I am now discussing is the prevention of abuse by the president of the Assembly of local self-government units, because these abuses were indeed observed in practice, so the emergency session of the assembly was scheduled in a way that is absolutely inadmissible, not to say that not only laws were violated, but were done and certain damage to the unit of local self-government. It is now truly defined by a specific deadline and that for the urgent assembly session to be convened, there are legally prescribed reasons that must be extremely factually founded and that justify the urgent appointment of the session of the local self - government assembly. What should also be commended is the fact that we have all finally been freed, that we will be free of one rogobat solution, which is that the working bodies of the congregation or the working bodies of municipalities and cities, which are otherwise governed by the statute, are changed by the statute. You yourself know that the statute is one of the acts which, at the level of the units of local self-government, implies a roof normative act or the highest normative act, and it is very complex to change it, both because of the public debate and because of the commission that needs to be formed for the change of the Statute and for the sake of the deadlines and everything else. Now we have a far simpler, far more practical solution to sort it out with the Rules of Procedure, and indeed, here you hit the right way to solve the problem, and there, indeed, is support for such a system solution. In the end, when all this is seen, we come up with a series of solutions that should be commended. One of them is, as you said today in the opening section, optimization of the number of members of municipal and city councils, on the one hand, the number of assistants of the president of the municipalities, or mayor. Why is this good? Well, it's good only because the fact that the city or municipal council was divided as political prey and that in that political cookie, with many mouths, it even happened that the number of nine plus two or eleven plus two members of the council was abused at the level of municipalities that are extremely small. If you take into account that there is a very small population of municipalities, only a few thousand people, such as Trgovište, Crna Trava, Žagubovica, etc., one logical question is raised – why will it take the municipal council to have 11 members of the municipal council, and how many of these members will have to be represented, i.e. those members of the water of the resort? Indeed, one kind of complete anachronism, one way that represents, on the one hand, the illogicalness or absurdity, on the other hand, which leads to the full paralysing of the work of the local self-government unit in the way that the local self-government unit deserves it. In this regard, it is indeed a good opportunity for both members of the municipal and city council and the assistant who will be in charge of certain tasks defined by law to greatly improve the quality of the work of the local self-government unit. I think it is very good that, when it comes to local communities, there is an increase in the supervision of the work of local communities, because in time the local communities began to lose their purpose and purpose. Instead of the local communities being the first to meet the needs of citizens, they have become their opposite. Why? Because it was not adequate to control the work or advice of local communities or local communities themselves, and then it is good to introduce a special body, a special body that will take care of what the local communities are doing, primarily in the normative part. Whether an act adopted by the local community or not, constitutionally or not, will be decided by someone who will be in charge of the local self-government unit and we will have a defined solution. However, Minister, I would ask you to pay attention to a possible problem that has been emerging for a long time, and it begins in fact from a quality solution to the bill, and you have well recognised it when it comes to management chiefs. The mayors of the municipal or city administration, or more administrations as special administrations, which now have to satisfy those so-called. professional academic criteria, when it comes to conditions for their choice, but we come to the one of the five years of working training in the profession to be chief. What's the problem? The problem is we have a burden. We have a mortgage, a regulation on restricting employment, on the one hand, the Budgetary System Act, on the other hand, and they are in the correlation, so that a number of management heads in Serbia, and it is not rare that they are going to retire soon, cannot be adequately filled in because these two normative acts prevented us from having people to prepare, who will have these five years of training, who will have professional qualifications so that they can succeed their colleagues at the head of these administrations. That's the problem. Another problem of a similar nature is the problem associated with individual positions at the level of inspection services in local self-government. Well, we can't hire a sports inspector in certain local self-governments, or an educational inspector in certain local self-governments, because we have a kind of barrier when we talk about a way of employment, especially about employment indefinitely, where the government has to determine itself through a commission that is competent to do so. What is very good, it is very good that you recognize the problem of local self-government that does not have sufficient capacity, do not have adequate resources to be able to meet everything that citizens expect from them, especially when it comes to entrusted businesses, where units of local self-government that have potential, here, I will say for the city from which I come, that is Užice, where it can meet the needs of some units of local self-government that do not have adequate resources, type of Arilla or Požega or Kosjerić, through entrusted jobs or association in the sense that joint jobs, i.e. by synchronising work, and two units of local self-government are not sufficient to meet the needs of citizens in the territory of those units of local self-government, i.e. these municipalities and cities or cities. Finally, I want to point out that just through the recognition of these problems comes to what was really necessary for a long time, it is necessary to intervene, you have intervened in a perfectly good way, and later through the affirmation of the electronic administration, through helping citizens to achieve their rights more effectively, as quickly as possible in time, and on the other hand, the rationalisation of the public sector, i.e. by reducing the number of employees, and here I think that in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance you will find adequate solutions, because that number of surpluses, or those who no longer need to work, are necessary or necessary to find adequate jobs in the economy or in the private sector. In this direction, too, it is necessary to make sure that in a social sense, words are solved in order for everyone to be content with the best possible vision. When it comes to the other laws that follow the Law on Local Self-Government, there is the Law on State Administration, I will refer to the code of good practice adopted by the Council of Europe in 2009 and which specifies the introduction of as many citizens as possible into the decision-making system when it comes to local self-government, which is very good. When it comes to the provisions of the law as a proposal, which concerns national minorities, or national minority councils, my colleagues will speak more significantly about it. For the sake of time, I will not comment much on these two laws, but it is important to point out the following – that once again the affirmation of the prohibition of discrimination is confirmed and that it is so-called. positive discrimination or positive selection, so we call it, for which we have heard criticism today, on the contrary, there is a huge justification right in the environments where national minorities are represented in a much smaller number in the public sector, in the public service, and where we will now be able to resolve this more successfully than it has been resolved so far. When it comes to the provisions of the laws relating to the use of the language, I ask you, Minister, to have in mind one fact which is few today, and I think it merits great attention, it is the need for anyone who will use the language of the national minority, and has the right to do so, and the Constitution guarantees him the right to do so in the best possible way, and in order to achieve it in the best possible way, then he must have adequate support or assistance. It's about interpretation. We, unfortunately, do not have an interpretation of the Roma language. There is a problem in courts to meet the need where members of the national minority appear as parties that have no interpreters. I think that should be solved in technical terms by this problem in the best possible way. As far as this set of laws is concerned, my colleagues will talk more about it. I will only thank you once again on behalf of all those who want good Serbia, who wish well to the citizens of all units of local self-government, to support this law, because this will benefit them. As for the other proposals, when it comes to personal solutions, I will address the proposer who made the proposal for Yorvanka Tabakovic as governor of the NBS. There are several reasons why it should be supported. The first and main reasons are the results in performing the job of NBS governors, and these results are reflected in the following: macroeconomic stability, the coordination of monetary fiscal policy, the maintenance of inflation in a five-year period of 2%, the stability of the exchange rate of dinar towards the euro and the responsible and efficient use of foreign reserves, ten billion euros as a guarantee of the stability of the financial system. Sufficient reasons for supporting the candidate for governor of the NBS. Finally, Mr. Jovicic, as representative of the High Council of the judiciary, the respected institutions and bodies proposed by the candidates for the holders of judicial functions, I would like to support your proposals, not to engage in your work, because I have no right to do so, but I have the right to comment that your work is strictly by law, that in the sense of applying the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and all other regulations, you have given the best possible solutions for the presidents of the courts, I can confirm that, as part of the judicial system by my profession, and that these proposals are such that they will certainly justify our trust when we vote for these personal solutions. I don't want to degrade anyone, but I think, let's say, one of the proposals is such as Dusan Milenkovic or Dule Milenkovic, an extraordinary solution for the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. There is another problem, Mr. Jovicic, and I ask you to consider it on the High Council of the Judiciary and that this problem is finally solved, and that is the responsibility of the President of the courts who represents a mortgage for them. Why am I saying this? The poor work of the courts mostly shifts to the burden of the president of the courts. Why? Why? They're just the heads of the court's administration, nothing more. Therefore, I ask you to consider the possibility of introducing a systemic solution that the Presidents of the Court must be the President of the Judicial Practice, or the President of the Department of Judicial Practice. Why? Only they will prevent two different court decisions from being generated from their court and thus creating unequal court practice, which is the biggest problem, it is the largest Serbian judiciary disease, which, fortunately, is being successfully treated. The moment that the presidents of the courts are also presidents of the case-law will then be able to control the work of the courts at full capacity, then they will be able to be controlled by judges, even though judges are independent, both by law and by function, but they will prevent what hurts all citizens, and it hurts the most when they have an unequal judicial bang, which creates automatic and legal uncertainty. I think that question should be raised at a session of the Supreme Judicial Council, and the Supreme Court of Cassation will finally change its position that the President of the Court should not be the president of the Judiciary Department. On the contrary, this is the right solution and this solution leads to improvements in the work of the courts. I will only return for a short while to one more part, because I am obliged out of respect for the proposings, which is Serbia's territorial arrangement when it comes to the status of two units of local self-government, which is Prokuplje and Bor. Indeed, in this direction, I would really like to congratulate the proposings on an extraordinary explanation and to support this proposal as extremely good, because it is parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia where these two units of local self-government are recognised as bearers or future developmentists, otherwise undeveloped areas, and in this sense, you have full support from us Socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38992	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38993	Thank you, Vice President Milicevic. Here Minister Ruzic told us that he is looking forward to the debate we will have on these laws, that we will discuss them much today and tomorrow when we have a debate in principle and when we have a debate in particular. I don't know if you know it, Mr. Ruzic, we haven't had a discussion in particular since December of last year when the SNS realized that it was obstructing the work of the Assembly in which it makes up the majority, so this set of laws, as well as all the proposed laws in the previous ones, have already passed six, seven, months without a parliamentary debate in particular, which is particularly regrettable in this case that I think the laws governing the area of the rights of national minorities are extremely important to the Republic of Serbia. I know the SNS doesn't care much about minority rights. After all, it is not such a long time ago that some of its senior officials offered national minorities a sandwich to move out of the Republic of Serbia, but I think because of the National Assembly, it is important for the Republic of Serbia to discuss this law as much as possible. We've invested a large number of amendments. In fact, all the amendments, which we have invested, apply to these laws, and I am sorry that we will not be able to discuss them, before Serbia has great problems in this area, when it comes to our negotiations with the EU. We were hoping that we could contribute, but we can hope that your co-workers will look at our amendments and that perhaps some of them will adopt, although I say in the Assembly, we will not have the right to talk about them, nor will the MPs who should vote for them in the voting day, but, more importantly, the citizens of Serbia will not know what kind of debate on these laws was taking place, because there will be virtually no debate on them, even if not in particular. I will start with the other laws that you have proposed, since such is the order that a group of MPs, who have applied for this session, have set out. First, I'm going to talk about the local self-government Act. I'm afraid all these laws, just like these minority ones, absolutely don't tang what the problems of local self-government are today, what are the problems of citizens living in local self-government, what are the problems in the functioning of our system. So it's from this first Law on Local Self-Government to the laws that are a territorial organization and that have been proposed by our colleagues and colleagues from the SNS, so we can start talking that way. In this advertisement you've given us for the laws, you say the Bill on Local Self-Government will ensure that citizens are involved in the process of preparing the investment part of the local self-government budget and that citizens will be able to say what to build, which is a very nice provision. But I think you're also aware that our local self-governments are not working that way, nor are they going to work that way, that they are run by people who are very little interested in what citizens think, especially what local self-governments need to build. I come from Novi Sad in which the mayor was less than two or three weeks ago, I think I asked a parliamentary question, I don't know if it's reached you, which refers to it, in the most brutal way possible, insulting citizens who have just used their rights which they now have under the Law on Planning and Construction and tried to indicate that they don't want a whole part of the city to be concreted, sold out to investors by choice of SNS and to preserve at least some green area in the town of Novi Sad. The response of the mayor of Novi Sad was that he could also organise the collection of citizens' signatures, so that it could be seen who would more collect citizens, whether citizens themselves or SNS themselves, would not be interested in the citizens' objections at all, announcing that these remarks would be addressed by the authorities. I think he made it clear to the authorities what that decision should be. We had other ways in which the cities themselves decided what would be built without any consultation with the citizens. I don't think there's a person in Serbia who doesn't know the case of Hercegovska, when a group of masked people in the night destroyed an entire part of the city, tied up and captured some citizens, where police had a warrant not to respond and did not respond to calls from bound citizens. This is the participation of citizens in deciding what you said, citizens will have the opportunity to say what to build. They said, they didn't say what to build, it's clear that the SNS and its mayors, the president of the municipality, will do absolutely exactly how they come up with it, that they will not, as they have so far, be interested in what the citizens think about it, and there's really no reason to believe that it's going to be different. The second objective of this law, as you say, is to set a minimum time limit for the assembly meeting of the municipality, or a city of 24 hours, and you say - by preventing the abuse of powers in terms of an inappropriate time limit for the assembly session, we enable them to work better. What abuse? Who does these abuses? The presidents of the assembly? You just have to explain a little bit what it's about. It's usually a provision that doesn't exist in the law, it appears in a commercial that you delivered to us under the law, so you really do have to tell us why that deadline is now cut to 24 hours. What abuses are you trying to prevent? Who's been doing them so far? Whether these people were responding or simply doing so that the deadline has to be shortened so that maybe the holding, the famous holding of the board in quarantine, might be cheaper, so now you won't have to hold them for seven days in quarantine, but, behold, 24 hours, and that maybe the desires and various desires of Serbia that lead terror to insubordinate local self-government have less to do when they have to put pressure on the council, intimidate the citizens and threaten their families. I'll look back on other laws for a little while before I can move on to laws governing the area of human and minority rights. We have a really strange law on territorial organisation of everything we can and what we have to solve when it comes to territorial organisation in the Republic of Serbia. From all of this we have decided to transfer three local communities from one municipality to another, and now we should all thank both the MPs and the ruling majority for giving such a bill. I'm glad that's gonna happen. I think the citizens of these municipalities will suddenly see a bloom, that their honey and milk will grow now that they have gained the status of cities. I congratulate them for getting the status of the city, but believe that in practice it means absolutely nothing to them, that it doesn't mean that we don't even know what the competences of local self-government are, or who runs our local self-government, what relations we have, what the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia is. The constitution is very vague. These are all the things that we need to talk about, not that here with cheap marketing tricks we're declaring some kind of victory and we're fainting out of luck because the two cities got the status of the city, by having two local communities transferred from one list to another list. Neither does it mean anything to anyone, nor does it solve any problem. So another one in a series of cosmetic changes, which probably has some purpose that we can't find right now. In the advertising that you've shared, you tell us – a step further in the reform of the pay system, so the system of working relations and wages throughout the public sector is in line. I don't know, Mr. Rose, if you've read this brochure you've shared. I believe you haven't, because I can't find another reason to have a material that can determine that a system of working relations and wages in the whole public sector is in line. I am very concerned with the problems of educational workers, since I was president of the Education Committee, it was still at a time when this committee was dealing with something other than the accreditation of the college of its president. We talked a lot to educators back then. On this occasion, they told us that their salaries are still convincing at least in Europe, that they are far below the republican average, that the structure of public sector employees is such that more than 80% with high expertise, that even cleaning women in some state-owned public enterprises, agencies, etc. Unskilled workers have more salaries than they do. She was promised to be passed the pay grade law. This was basically the reason why they broke up that big strike of theirs from 2014 to 2015. Who knows which time SNS lied to them? The pay grade law has indeed been passed, but so it does not apply at all to those categories that actually create a pay problem in the public sector. So this law does not apply to public enterprises, does not apply to agencies, does not apply to all those categories where salaries are huge and which actually create losses. Instead, we settled, I don't know, the salary of a maid in a health care home with the salary of a housekeeper at school, and the salary of a courier at the agency remained even higher than the principal's salary. So I see this law as just another injustice that is being made when making a profit in the public sector, and all the stories about how it will now introduce employment through competition, progress based on merit, etc. We really cannot take this seriously because all that has proved in the previous six years is that employment is exclusively through a relationship and that party and progress exclusively by obedience, and not by competence and ability. As for the proposal for governor, of course we won't support it. We didn't support him the first time Mrs. Tabakovic was elected governor. You've made one dangerous precedent. You've placed a high-ranking party official in a place the law says must not be a party official. You're the first one to do it. What Aleksandar Vukic would say – for the first time in Serbia's recent history. There's something you've done for the first time in Serbia's recent history. I don't think even little kids believe that. The obvious recommendation for the people who take care of our money in this country is who has more affairs and who is more engrossed in affairs, so there is a dead race between Jorgovanka Tabaković and Sinisha Malogi, whom this congregation majority chose several days ago as finance minister. Obviously, this is a recommendation in the SNS, who has more affairs, who has more murky jobs, which will be proposed and later chosen to take care of the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I come to laws dealing with the rights of national minorities. We believe that the solutions you offer these laws are exceeded, outdated, that they feed a partial model of minority self-government that survives in this country, and we see by what you have proposed, very easily it can flourish and not meet those needs of members of national minorities in the way that modern states should do in the 21st century. These laws are, of course, filled with some floscules, general places that don't mean anything, which is why Serbia already has, as I said, problems in negotiations with the EU and the closure of chapters, and it seems that it sends a clear message that, as Orwell would say, some minorities are more equal than others and that some national councils are more equal than others. We can only guess on the basis of which exactly such choices in the law and such provisions have been put in place, but obviously there is a lot of room for these laws to be corrected. I think it's clear, but when you look at the notion of definition and definition of the national minority that this law offers, that it's one definition that, first of all, should be said in the beginning, is discriminated against by a few national minorities, this moment that, by far, it's sufficiently representative is quite dangerous when it comes to making a decision that can have the status of a national minority and who can't. The condition that this minority is in a long-standing and solid relationship with territory is also long ago overcome in a world where new national minorities have long been replaced by old national minorities and we are indeed offering some mid-20th-century solutions throughout the law. We cannot overcome the concept offered to nations and peoples, we cannot enter the concept of protecting human and minority rights that is needed for the 21st century. There are a whole series of provisions that already appear in other laws, which is – a ban on discrimination, a threat to national minorities that their activities must not be directed at violent destruction of the constitutional order, a violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. It is known that they are, yes, usually suspected of such things and I don't know what other reason to throw this in when it is already forbidden by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Criminal Code? Or, right now, in the law on national minorities, should they be particularly prepared not to violate territorial integrity and constitutional order? There's a whole series of principled provisions that don't just mean nothing, but they can cause us trouble again. Let's say, in Article 4, when you mention the measures that should lead to equality in employment, I don't know, say, how does the state administration think to determine which nationalities? I don't know what the instruments are based on which we can examine which nationalities are employed by the state administration, so we say, well, now we need, I don't know, three more Slovaks, here we need five Roma, and here we need two Hungarians. It's simple, we've introduced a provision without any means to explain how it will be implemented. The same is true of members of national minorities in political life. This, for example, is one of the provisions that makes Croatia, rightly, extremely big problems. We have undertaken bilateral agreements with a number of surrounding countries to provide a parliamentary team for members of national minorities, such as Croatia, Hungary, Macedonia. We didn't do it, we don't have a way to do it, we don't have laws to confirm it, we don't have a model to do it, so we're just making problems for ourselves. The national councils will, in the way you have proposed to function, remain the political parties of national minorities, and that is exclusively for those who are well-funded, well-organised and well-represented in other places. There is no decentralisation of minority self-government, on the contrary, we have one further centralization. The only positive thing is that, although you did not accept our amendment, far away, you would certainly not be able to accept our amendment, but you have abolished that discriminatory provision that you initially proposed, which is that only those MPs in the order of the national minorities who have and whose share in the population crosses 2% have the right to speak in their own language. You agreed to delete it from the law and that's only good, but you realize that it's not nearly enough, not that we in the DS support this law, but that the Republic of Serbia is starting to lead the way of the rights of national minorities in the way that modern democratically developed European states do in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38994	Thank you. My colleague Tomic, we have a first breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from a colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38995	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call for the violation of Members 106, or the violation of Members 107, because the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. I believe that not only is the dignity of the National Assembly injured, but that the dignity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia has been injured, given that there are also members of national minorities in Serbia. In a very cunning way, counterpart Jerkov took advantage of the opportunity to lead the SNS under the context of bad relations with national minorities. I would like to say that SNS is a party that also has members of national minorities in its ranks, i.e. in its membership. I have colleagues and colleagues here who are members of national minorities and I am ashamed to hear that the SNS has been manipulated under such a context and that it is placed in the context of the sharing of sandwiches or exploitation in any way by members of national minorities. On the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia is leading the right policy, protecting the rights of members of national minorities. I'm asking you, the chairman, to at least interrupt the speaker in the future, although I think that the colleague at least deserved a warning, and I remind you of Articles 108 and 109. It is a sensitive subject, and I think that we should not use members of national minorities for some cheap political points in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38996	Thank you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Replication rights, authorised SNS representative Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38997	Thank you, Chairman. When we talk about a question of even the national minorities that Mrs Jerkov here, in a speech of hatred for the SNS, then it should be said that probably what she failed through her political career in LSV to implement, is probably carried out in this present party, although the part that relates to the injustices she's talking about, how SNS is a platform for injustices that are in the local and national minorities, you've set up. So those of you who ruled until 2012, you who gave us the task of correcting all the injustices you've set up so far, and it'll take us another 10 years to put it all in order. When you talk about the participation of citizens in the decision-making of local self-government, your committees are now participating in Serbia's blockade. Your participants and representatives of citizens at the local level show exactly what to do in Serbia when you simply exercise power. And that's right -- that Serbia stops, that you simply divide all the money from the budget between you and your comrades and that you simply hand over Serbia's future to another party that is beyond Serbia's borders. Now, that's your policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38998	Thank you. The word is proposed by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u38999	I thank the chairman. We're listening to some honey and milk again. Apparently, colleagues like honey and milk, Zivkovic is a farmer, so maybe with him to see some bees, maybe keep them, and so on. I heard one sentence – all you showed in the previous period is employment. Of course we showed in the previous period of employment. We hire people, unlike you who in Bor alone shut down 13 companies from RTB Bor, you left 15,000 people between 50 and 55 years of age without a job. It's a difficult employment category. These are people who have had internal qualifications. Of those 13 companies that you sold for funny money, it only works with 200 workers. At the very least, you should be ashamed to mention Bor, because the citizens of Bora will never forget that, because of that, we can't recover so easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39000	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39001	Thank you. As far as this set of minority laws is concerned, the laws are in line with the Framework Convention on the Protection of Minority Rights. Experts in the Council of Europe have assessed these drafts as in line with international standards. The legislative framework has been assessed as very good, presented in the European Parliament. Our representatives from the sector dealing with minority issues also have been invited from the Council of Europe, and from Ukraine, literally, to do "cays stand" in the case of work to prepare drafts and proposals for these laws. The only place we could possibly agree on is to improve the implementation, but that story about us coughing for someone in some valuable sense for international standards is simply not based on the truth. In the European Parliament, they said Serbia can be an example of many EU member states in this field, so I don't understand what modern European standards we haven't installed. As for the topic you mentioned about these four countries, we have one form, I would say, that is, the subject of bilateral agreements, in the case of the Republic of Croatia, but representativeness is primarily a topic for electoral legislation, not for these laws. What was also your question is about positive discrimination. There is therefore the possibility of a free and voluntary declaration of nationality. Also, in the register of employees, again on the basis of this principle of volunteering, the list is practically updated and updated, and the amendments and additions to the Law on Parent Books have now and normably regulated this right to, in addition to the principle of volunteering, national membership and records, be heard, etc. Since you have read the clear brochure and thank you for that act and for your kind words that this is about advertising, see Article 8(1), where it is clearly said that the session is scheduled for at least 24 hours, so that is the deadline. When we speak to the intensity of this provision, the intensity is to prevent abuse. I am a contemporary of many political events, I would not want to be, of course, rude, always like to be gentle, especially according to the opposition, but let's remember in 2012, if I am not mistaken, and who was at the head of the City of Novi Sad Assembly and how soon this session was scheduled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39002	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov: Replica. My colleague Jerkov, you want to. You've caused a series of replicas. You got the answer to the questions you asked. In exactly the same way they spoke to colleagues and colleagues like you, you have no basis for replication and we continue to work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39003	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is common knowledge that I am in a small party that was founded in the distant 1990s, i.e. was founded before that in 1940. My party has a high degree of intolerance to co-existence with national minorities. Here according to the SNS, my coalition partner, one great lie has been made. But I'll take my turn. That untruth came from Gilas's key chain, and what's left is Gilas's key chain, he bought it like that. On 8 March 2013, Branimir Kuzmanovic and other "Heinekena" in Mladenov, against migrants. They wouldn't let them spend the night. We need to know that in that Iraq and in that Libya, we've made good money. Many of our citizens have built houses. These people who came into trouble for the Americans to go to Europe at least deserved to sleep in our country for a few days. But the members of Gilas' key chain obviously didn't think so and here's the evidence. The president of Vračar Municipality and the chairman of the Executive Board of the Gilas key chain, along with the Dvori, who then fenced themselves and said that they were not a racist organisation, etc., but participated together. Let's move on. We all remember a statement about the Slovak Chetniks. This is Bojan Pajtic, who called his party a crazy ship, here, in something that I agree with Bojan Pajtic, and this is a small boat, a pendant for Gilas. So, he spoke of Slovak Chetniks, resenting them for being solid in 1918, Mr. Martinovic, is that right, and that's what the president of the Slovak Parliament said when he said they were shot here because they didn't want to retaliate against Serbs, which means over Chetniks. So Bojan Pajtic resented them only because they were in solidarity with Serbian Chetniks in World War I and 44 Slovaks paid with their heads. He resented them. He says: When were the Slovaks Chetniks? Well, yes, Mr. Pajtić, and that's why in 1918, 44 of them were shot in Kragujevac and everyone who was present heard that from the president of the Slovak congregation. The SNS and my People's Peasant Party didn't put Roma in containers. That's what Gilas did, that's what he made of some party pendant, a boat of lunatics, so a little smaller specimen, then a pendant. So, it was a harsh lie. When they talk about local self-government, I remember Ruma, India, etc. In 2007. I've been removed by order of some Elezovic, I heard, I'm not sure if that's true. It's true, isn't it? Is that one with the silver wallet? So, I've been transferred to the water management building, no quorum. They are now bothered by the introduction of order into local self-government. I was appointed president of the Assembly that built an industrial zone in India, which made the first cigarette factory "Fast", without any support from the state. I've been replaced because I've built all the roads and telecommunications. Thank you to all of you, Tiki Timothyevich, Branko Jocic and everyone who helped me with that. At that moment, the debt of India and the unmistakable liabilities were between 50 million and 100 million dinars, and we almost ended it all, from telecommunications, roads, etc. Then they remembered, and they took pictures, and Goran Jesic just took pictures. I've been working, I'm not very nice to take pictures of, and he's kind of small enough to paint. They're changing me, and the debt of India has grown to two billion and 600 million. The session at which I was appointed was held in the Water Administration building, in the offices of the party's berth, where there was a public company that had conquered them there was the party's headquarters, and I was placed right in that seat in the water management building, and the session was chaired by, believe it or not, Nikola Divjak. In a wild session, chaired by Wildak, the president's shifts and moving on. Today their mouths are full of threats, I don't know, these municipalities, those municipalities, the threat of Paracinos, as a party. They were there all groups of citizens, so they did something, ten parliamentary groups, they did something, they won power, they probably do what they did in India. That "Heineken" for one evening, they talked about it, he spoke of "a bit of a descendant", this one from the "Wolve of a Seed", the one from the "Wolve of a Seed" party, said that someone in the pub made a "Mandate" million dinars, watch out, in the "Mandate". And Heinekene drank 471,000 dinars for one evening at the expense of local self-government or two swimming pools. Because the pool has issued for 50 years, with a 2,000-euro lease. So if he drank 4,000 euros a night, then he drank two pools, a rent in a year. We pick up that rent in India next to the same pool for an ice cream machine. Not a 2,000-euro lease, but a 5,000-euro lease, as much as he drinks in one evening. And the pool has issued 50 years for 2,000 euros a year plus hot water, which, of course, is not according to the laws, nor to make contracts for 50 years. Well, when the representatives of the judiciary are here, let them say to this Zagorka Dolovac – there are some "Heinekens", there are some Alexics there, etc. who made their municipalities happy. Let's move on. He spoke to me, Alexic, and here he mentioned nepotism, gentlemen of the chairman, about the president's brother, about his wife, about his wife's brother, about nepotism and party employment. Since the wolf descendant, who inherited the oil source in the village of Ježevica, after getting seven million, here's the scheme, could have raised it for the CIRS center, five million 957 thousand. It's not said as rich as sheik, it's said as Vuk Jeremic left-handed, these are Gilas and Misk's left-handed. Well, he got the PR agency, Vuk Jeremic million 335 thousand and at the private expense of 226 and 200 thousand from the Qatar Embassy, which served in the world as a sponsor of the Islamic Republic. Now, that's them. And he's talking about nepotism and party employment. Well, let's see, he's like Vuk Jeremic, a descendant, they've seen these public sector ladies, his wife works TV Triestenik, so he works in the public sector, otherwise I wouldn't mention it and he's saying there's no freedom of the media. How's party employment? He probably didn't hire her through the party, probably didn't hire her as his wife. The one who made the revolution here around the fur. Mrs. Teacher, editor of the journal from head to toe, the man interrupted my session because of furskins, from head to heel in fur. They say this awake "sebl" from a Russian wolf costs $15,000, it can be found. Only a red fox cobbler, women know it well, costs over 300 euros. If I were him, I'd rent a safe, so it'd be worth it to be the president of the municipality in Triestenik, and where'd the money come from? Well, there's some human resources fund Dinkic put 55 million in there, but through the National Employment Service, and guess who was head of the National Employment Service in Triestenik? He was an old man, Mr. Aleksic, Ljubisa Knezevic, and in that Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources was an old man, mother-in-law, he, Juliana Secretary, who would grab responsibility for her and her husband. Then it's easy to make pumpkins and then it's easy to defend furskins, it can't be manufactured, but it can be bought and worn. It can be produced in Romania five metres across our borders, can also be produced in Bulgaria five meters across our border, in Hungary five meters across our border, in Bosnia over five, only we need 300 breeders, so the Wolf thinks. From the party of this Wolf descendant, from that famous Muja Taga Pozerac of Cazin, famous, truly famous, forerunner of Young Bosnia, I don't mean anything, and this is his party friend awake from head to to toe, see, she's in the company of that leftist Boška left-handed from this Gilas society. She in full total and then drags me out for why I protect domestic farmers, why don't I just let like Smederevska Palanka, Tristenik, just don't let the presidents of the municipalities get a good run at it, so they can buy pumpkins, etc. That time has passed. So if they think they're going to take the street, I have to tell them that democracy is not won by force, that democracy and power in democracy are won by elections. It seems that it is not familiar enough for them, so these days we have a real struggle like—here, now you see the price of fuel. That they didn't sell the oil industry, that this wolf descendant from the village of Ježevica, a descendant of the famous oil man, that he didn't waste this money in other ways, give people little for agriculture, little of this, little of that, that the cheap and that fuel, however, is not their goal of fueling the cheap state, to bring down the government, not only the government, but the state that will no longer be subject to Scott and their bosses. They wrote in their biography that they had completed CIA courses. I really don't think some of them are, as our people say, under vaervag. Imagine if someone in America brought in to work for the BIA, to get someone in there, there some congressman of theirs to come and write – I work for the BIA or the Federal Security Service of Russia. I don't think he'd get any sleep, but with us, I'd advise our top officials to defend the state at all costs, not the government, but to defend the state from these. Of course, she likes skin and fur, a little bit of a descendent has shown and it's just, here it is in the Red Square in Moscow, in the skin, in the fur, it can be done, but it can be produced outside, it can be bought here, but here, it's produced here, so it's better to introduce it. That's their theory, but that's the past. In terms of national minorities, all injustices, they are not with the rights of national minorities, they are also part of the majority. Their rights should always be greater than the rights of the majority, but they are not only a minority, they should not getoized, they belong to the majority, they are citizens of our country, and if there is some injustice towards them, it is an injustice of the administration and bureaucracy that is exposed even to even most of them sometimes rather than to minority peoples. In the end, with such low inflation, with foreign exchange reserves growing, with a rate not growing for six years, and with them growing by 50%, only by one year or two, from 78 to 115, it was a great chance for development, more of taking care of chickens, etc., sedatives, than they were taking care of the citizens, they were more concerned about winning elections, so at the cost of selling NIS in vain, building a wild country of KIM, today they are talking and having grudges. I don't think there's any dilemma about governors, with such low inflation, the growth of foreign reserves, the growth of foreign exchange savings, the growth of dinar savings, we don't have any dilemmas, and that's why we're going to be very easy to identify ourselves as governor of the NBS. On all other issues, I, as a member of a small party, will vote with a loud criticism of all that these famous defenders of local self-government, democracy, etc., who today on the street want to change power. We've been through two 10 years. The first period of 10 years when we were threatened on the outside. The other 10, and for God's sakes 12 years when they stole us inside, today, together with Skopje, those who threatened us on the outside, along with those who stole us inside, want to make changes in power so that Serbia will be subservient again. Now, that won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39004	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39005	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, Ministers, about the laws that are subject to this session today, I want to say that the SNS will support these laws and what we saw today from the opposition party debate, it is that they too support those laws. They may have some small dilemmas about some amendments, but that therefore means they support decisions by the government of the Republic of Serbia, since they are not informed that SNS is the leader when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the number of ministries. So to support you, essentially they support the proposals only because it's hard to admit because it's the SNS. What I would wear at the end of today's presentation when it comes to authorised proposings, is that the most we should also speak as a representative, a promoter and a Finance Committee, which is that the proposal that came to the Assembly is based on Article 19 of the Law. The law on the NBS and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 99, is that the proposal for governor of the NBS is made by the President of the Republic of Serbia. The law was otherwise amended in 2010 and then in July and then the president, Mr Tadic, proposed, Mr Soskovic, so that this practical procedure was established in 2012 and now in 2018. What caused Mr. Vukic to propose a new mandate to Mrs. Jorgovanka Tabakovic is in fact the results of her work. We had opportunities last week to discuss the laws that were the subject of the debate, but also the work in Mrs Tabakovic's first term. What we had the opportunity to hear from the opposition is that many things have moved towards the work of both the National Bank of Serbia itself and the relationship of banks with the National Bank and the citizens, and so the results of the work speak exactly about the fact that inflation has been reduced to 2%, which is, in fact, the rank of the most developed European states, which says that stability has been preserved when it comes to the dinar course at all, when it comes to stability and the macroeconomic stability of the state itself, but also when it comes to the business environment of Serbia, which has been completely changed since all the laws were passed in the past four years, when we talk about laws relating to economic reforms and fiscal consolidation, so that full coordination was needed, in practice, the National Bank of Serbia with the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These results are today to show that in the first quarter we can talk about the surplus in the budget, that we can talk about that there will also be enough money to increase wages and pensions, talk about increasing employment, creating new jobs. Today we also have the opening of a new Lidla facility, and you know that such companies as Lidl don't exactly come to insecure economic markets, they don't come to regions where there really isn't this economic stability, as we are talking about Serbia today. When we talk about the work of the National Bank of Serbia at all, I can't help but say that the difference between 2012 when Mrs. Jorgenka took over, the National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves were 25 times less than they are today. So, at that time, they were 409,000,000 euros, and today they are 10,550 and over 10,000,000,000 euros, and that's 25 times that. Therefore, we are talking about a responsible policy, which is led not only by the National Bank of Serbia, but also by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this coordination has just led to the fact that today we are really talking about great results and we are talking about that, in addition to the fact that many chapters have been opened in terms of co-operation with the EU and the chapters relating to monetary and fiscal policy, financial services, have just passed practically competent committees, which are the Committee on Finance, the Committee on European Integration, the Assembly of Serbia and are now in Brussels, and we are discussing that certain of these chapters should be opened, just as the first chapter opened is Chapter 32, which is financial control. It means that all of this is highly dedicated to the work done by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and when we talk about its biography, which has been tried today in the worst possible way to be challenged, above all personal insults, then it should be said that in its biography it is said that, indeed, the woman who was born in Kosovo, has completed the Faculty of Economics in Pristina and as a student of the generations at that time, has completed her master's studies and completed her doctoral studies and has worked both as a professor at the Economic School and as a certain bank officer, so to speak, and as the head of the Bank, she has passed all the steps in her career advancement, when it comes to a general profession, and has been elected as governor of the National Bank. She managed during her term to make the dollar, which was the fourth worst currency in the world and in the region, to be the second currency today, the best currency when we talk about the dinar. So she made a dinarization of the economy, which little one went after the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. What we have today, and as a proposal, is that the former director of the Treasury Administration, since last week we had amendments and additions to the Law, is practically shut down as a workplace and that function is performed by V.D. The governor, the very director who was elected here at the Serbian Parliament, who passed the election procedure of the director of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority. We had a chance to talk to him as members of the Finance Committee. Indeed, his résumé is also impressive. He graduated from an economic college with the highest marks here in Belgrade. It is a young man, 1979, who has shown that he is also able to be head of the negotiating team for Chapter 9 when it comes to negotiations with the EU, namely financial services, and it has qualified him somewhere that, as director of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority, he is indeed in charge as vice governor of the NBS and, since he has been elected here, in this plenary, as acting official, it was absolutely logical that today we have this proposal to v.d. We have today's Vice-Governmental status as a proposal from the Vice-Governor in his full term, which follows amendments and additions to the Law on National Bank of Serbia, which was adopted in the Assembly last week. What should be said is that it is perfectly logical why the NBS today has results, it is also shown, I don't know if you followed yesterday, which is that our home card "Dina" is practically becoming one of the partners of the "Cina UnionPay" network, which is otherwise one of the world's largest networks of cards located in 168 countries and Bank of Postage Savings, together with "Cina UnionPay" has practically issued one common card, which, on the NBS initiative, is an attempt to make our national map "Dina" an integral part of this network of the whole world, and that is why I think as a result of the work of the NBS and Serbia as one of the stable financial monetary markets, and also the stable economic states have just won as a reward for all the effort and work that the governor of the National Bank participated in that. I think the National Bank is developing that home card. According to state-of-the-art technologies, it has shown that we can enter major markets with our specific derivatives that the world is working with every day and that we are essentially entering Serbia's system of digitising itself at a large door. What needs to be said to the citizens of Serbia today to answer one important question, which is in general macroeconomic stability and economic stability of Serbia is precisely what we see in recent days that some here want to stop Serbia, which is the main topic, the topic of oil and oil prices, the price that was 12% higher in 2012 than now, the price that showed that 168 dinars for liters of fuel could be given in 2012 and no one has objected, and now the problem is much less. What needs to be said to Serbian citizens is that excises, which are spoken of by those who stop Serbia, who participate in local self-governments as opposition committees, so they don't allow women with small children to pass, priests, old and sick people, not allow emergency aid to pass, and they won't show that the organisers of these demonstrations are forces, because we saw yesterday that individuals are ready and they are, should tell those people that they can raise certain kinds of protests, but there is a law and way to do that. They do not want to say that excise duties were introduced in 2009 and that Mr Tadic was the first to sign in fact an increase in excise duties from 7 to 44 dinars per litre of fuel. So, I'm talking about gasoline. It was normal at the time, and by 2012, this excise was up to 50 dinars, and for diesel, 37 dinars. What they didn't want to say is that the price of a liter of fuel we buy at the pumps today determines a few factors. One of the factors is the price of oil derivatives on the market and that's why we have situations that everyone has to suffer if certain wars occur, but also the price that applies to excises and taxes and the part that applies to the practical rate of dollars. You were aware that in those wars of great forces that price of fuel was so low that simply all economies had to suffer these exchange rates of dollars, that today it began to practically increase the value of dollars. But I'm going to tell you that in the structure of the average retail prices, there are obviously cumulative costs relating to the transport of that fuel itself. Interestingly, it is precisely those who strike the price of fuel and just lead to a strike in the country, in which they want Aleksandar Vukic to bear a certain burden of all this, that they do not advocate at all a reduction in the price of fuel, but that they want simple chaos in the state and that they annul the elections that the citizens had on many occasions to express as their civil rights and vote for Alexander Vukic and SNS. If that were the opposite, then we would really open one quality debate about all this. In addition, the fact is that the US prosecutor's office has launched a number of court procedures for money laundering former Senegalian foreign minister and former Hong Kong interior minister, who financed the NGO, Vuk Jeremic, in which they gave more than 7.2m euros, in which they practically financed the part relating to certain services in the energy sector on the basis of these funds. I don't know if you now have a clear connection between actually supporting this Serbian stand, stopping Serbian citizens from working and living because of this they want to tear down a few regimes not only of Alexander Vukic, but of stopping Serbia from making progress. It is, in fact, the reason why we have the financing and money laundering of some energy companies in Shanghai, based on the NGO Mr. Jeremic owns. This is why citizens of Serbia need to know today who actually wants a good future for Serbia, and who wants to get us back before 2012 to the price of electricity, which was much higher than now and at the price of energy and oil derivatives and the price of gasoline of 168 dinars per litre. Therefore, on the basis of all this today, we can see that work is respected, that the results of work are respected, that expertise is respected and that we need to correct everything that has been handed over to others outside of this country by 2012 to lead and create Serbia's policy. It's gone. We decide our own future and will not be prevented by those who receive money from abroad, who design some fiction in the face of some affairs, and all of this in order to fill their pockets, drive expensive cars. My message to them is that they buy 1,200-cubic cars, so they'll see that they won't have that kind of cost, since they're obviously stopping traffic only by jeeps, only by auditions, and only by those 3,000-cubic cars. It is a little strange, but the citizens of Serbia have seen it now. And when they talk about how they've regained consciousness, they've come to see who wants to stop Serbia, and who wants to move forward and provide a future for their children and their grandchildren. Therefore, in the voting day, we will surely support these laws and proposals by Mr. Alexander Vukic, president, for the governor of the NBS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39006	Thank you. Since this was the last President-in-Office, or representative of the parliamentary group, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 14 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39007	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, from a number of proposed laws as a national MP of the Bosniak National Community, and in particular as the elected representative of the Bosniak National Council of Bosniaks, as head of the Council of the Council of the Council of Council of the Council of Council of Council of the Bosniaks, Sandzak and Mufti, I will particularly refer to this set of laws concerning national minorities. Of course, many solutions in these proposals are very high quality, very well done and deserve all praise. I have been convinced and I have said this many times, not only in Serbia, but also in legal solutions, constitutional solutions to national minorities in Serbia, the best of all countries in the region, better than in BiH, better than in Croatia, better than in Montenegro, Macedonia and many other countries. I am responsible for this, especially in the field of education, i.e. the implementation of the mother tongue. Of course, these legal solutions too have some of their shortcomings to be warned about and for which we have submitted amendments. I'll take this opportunity to point to some of the most significant. Today we are more than once members of this House who have heard that this Article 7a, which should prevent the politicisation of national councils, is very harmful. There is indeed politicisation in national councils, but it is causally-consequently linked. It has been more present from the republican authorities so far than it has been a problem that political parties participated in the work more. I will remind you of 2010, when the first elections for the Bosniak National Council were held, directly, when the list led by Zukorlic won 49.75% of the mandate, although RIK had previously removed 20,000 voters from the special polling list, when then the DS Human Rights Minister Aleksandar Ciplic brought a special regulation that was only applicable to Bosniaks, that a two-thirds majority must be brought instead of the free majority to form a council. Therefore, there was a major abuse by those authorities that should have helped national councils to carry out their national policy interests to the end. In the same way, in 2014 elections, national councils also showed open theft, when RIK President Mr. Shebek attended Tutin and when we recorded and delivered RIK's absolute theft material at polling stations, and this was not treated and we had a politicisation of the National Council. So there's these politicizations, but it's exclusively related to the causal-consequential to executive power. Of course, it is not good for political parties not to be actors of the political life of the national councils, especially since the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and under the Constitution, should not be discriminated against by members of national communities in such a way, and let's say, the practice of the EU states also knows that. Here, you have Croatia, where it is also the president of the Serbian National Council, Mr. Pupovac. Isn't that EU practice? So this member should be completely deleted. Also, the very important things to talk about here, which no one has ever talked about so far, is a special electoral list. A special polling list is a problem for national communities. We believe that this proposed solution is quality, and we offer even better, that, for example, members of the special polling list are removed from the census, with the possibility of enrolling those who may have missed the list. Also, it would be good if there were no such erasures as in 2010, if all the electoral lists had the right to see the voter list after the election lists were concluded, such as the practice in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39008	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39009	Let me just finish. It is very devastating that in this bill, the electoral list does not have its representatives in the RIK. That should be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39010	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39011	Thank you. Very short. So let's not compare value, structural and content stuff that's not identical. So, the Serbian National Council in Croatia does not have the status of a national council, like here in Serbia, but I would take advantage of the opportunity, given that you have touched really important issues concerning the elections for national councils and the special electoral list, to officially invite you, so there is not only you, but all the MPs who are members of the national minorities, that tomorrow at 3 p.m. in the Small Hall, they attend the discussion and presentation of the model by which we will update the special electoral list, use it with a unique voter list and point out all the advantages so that no harm comes to any, I won't say, because there is no way of it being, but in any case some irregularities that were likely to occur in earlier years. Correction, of course, immediately, will be on the first floor of the hall three, so not in the small plenary room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39012	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. He's not there. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39013	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in your presentation, Mr Ruzic, we heard that the Law on Local Self-Government had been pending for five years, that you provided the bill to representatives of cities and municipalities, that two public debates were being held, which is certainly commendable. What is important and what needs to be stressed is the message the Republic is sending - that the government at the restaurant more includes citizens in the decision-making process, but also that budgets are planning incentives for the birth of a similar strategy to the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is important that all institutions engage in the fight against the white plague, and therefore municipalities and cities, because all activities at national level must be monitored by activities at local level and 566 million dinars are foreseen for this year, five times more than last year when only 15 municipalities competed for those funds. In today's presentation of my colleague, Vujic, we heard that the ministry asked local self-government for an opinion on how to fight the white plague. I'm not saying that the address isn't good, but we can't get past the opinions of mothers, and it doesn't say that as a MP, but as a mother, because you put the accent on the incentive of having a third and fourth child, and I think that your mothers can best tell you the reasons why they choose not to give birth to a third and fourth child. Opinions by local self-government are important, especially if they come from those cities that support and encourage the birth of children, which is the city of Jagodina, which has recognised years ago that the key problem of Serbia's state is a small birth and an incentive from the city budget that has contributed to Jagodina being one of the cities, if not the only city, which is growing in the birth of children each year. The state has gone through decentralisation, but it is important to maintain control of the legality of local self-government units. Given that the proposed Law on Local Self-Government is good, I will briefly step out of the topic, because there are several important problems that we need to look at, and I know that the Ministry of Local Self-Government with you at the helm, Mr. Ruzic, will be able to solve them. In fact, there is a huge difference in the size of units of local self-government, when I say size, I mean not only the number of inhabitants, but also the area of municipalities and cities. For example, while only 150,000 people live in the township of Vracar on a surface of less than three square kilometres, according to the 2011 census, in the town of Kraljev, only 150,000 people live on the surface of 1,530 square kilometers. So the King is more than 500 times larger than Vračar, and he has only twice as many inhabitants. It is clear to you that we are under the obligation to educate in a large area all communal activities from providing healthy drinking water, taking out garbage to urban and suburban transport, which is the source of income that can be collected from a small population insufficient. For this reason, as a Member from the King, I advocate that the state helps more cities and municipalities that have a large territory and a small number of inhabitants. Another problem that exists is that it is necessary to organise another level of local self-government. In Serbia, above cities and municipalities, we do not have a higher level of local government, as the environments are a form of deconcentration, not decentralisation of government. It is therefore necessary to provide for legislation as a mandatory strong form of co-operation between neighbouring municipalities and cities, where they could solve problems together that cannot be solved in one municipality or in one city. For example, with the municipalities of Raška, Vrnjačka Banja, Trstenik and Paracino, with the help of French partners, Kralje worked together to build a regional dump. Also, in co-operation with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, a Protocol on Cooperation with all municipalities and cities located in the West Morava Basin was established so that they could work together preventively to prevent natural disasters. I think establishing higher levels of co-operation between neighbouring municipalities and cities would help increase the number of municipalities and cities that co-operate with each other, and in this proposed Law on Local Self-Government, it goes in that direction. In your explanation of the Law on Local Self-Government, you point out that the functioning of local communities and their relationship with local self-government units will be improved. It is the local communities where the problems are identified, where citizens across their communities can point to life's problems. I'm not saying that this has not been a practice in cities and municipalities so far, but it will now be an obligation for local self-government to improve the mechanisms of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, which is very important for JS, as a socially responsible party, and this is a good indicator that the quality of life of its citizens is the most important state. As for the Law on Parent Books, I can take the opportunity to commend the city administration from the city from which I come, from the King, because they connected among the first electronic channels the local offices to the general administration departments within the city administration, so that citizens in the rural area can download a copy of the book of born, married, dead without coming to the city administration. Citizens can get these documents in several world languages, so they have no additional costs in paying the translator. Otherwise, the town of Kraljevo runs the parent books for six municipalities in the KIM area and they are all entered into the central system, and that means if someone is born in the Kingdom or Zvečana can take a copy in Belgrade. What creates the problem, and also for you, Mr. Minister, is that the royal services in the King need more modern computers, because these existing ones do not support all the applications of your ministry, and you yourself said that translation of parent books is a major undertaking. I think the ministry's assistance in terms of modern computer donations would be an incentive to employees, given that among the first in Serbia they have translated the parent books into electronic form, that they continue to work responsibly on the modernisation of the local administration. As for the proposal to elect the governor of the NBS, the JS parliamentary group will support the proposed candidate, Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, given that inflation in the previous five years has been preserved at an average level of 2%, which ranks among the most stable European states, that foreign exchange rate stability is preserved, that the share of problematic loans in total bank loans has been reduced to a minimum. We believe that Mrs Tabakovic, in her new term as the head of the NBS, will hold a positive business course for this institution. At the very end, the JS parliamentary group will support all draft laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39014	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39015	Thank you. Just for a little while. As regards technical support, therefore, not only the Kingdom, but local self-government, amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, as you know, the Office for IT is formed and it now has the opportunity to assist municipalities, or municipal administrations. Another explanation, just so it doesn't stay unsaid. I repeat, as Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, we addressed the units of local self-government with a question that encouraging measures and innovative measures in the field of population policy are being implemented, which is a question in line with the strategy initiated by the President of the Republic, which is being implemented by the Minister without portfolio and by the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself. There is no more natural way to get concrete, precise data than to contact the Resort Ministry with local self-government and to receive these data, and after that we are doing a review of the measures we are going to carry out, which is already done, and I repeat, we did it three or four months ago, and within three or four days, if I am not mistaken, we collected all that data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39016	Thank you. Minister Rose. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not there. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39017	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we have before us laws that are part of the reforms carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and which aim to establish a modern, efficient and orderly state and I welcome the government's commitment to this goal, which is seen through the improvement and reform of changes in laws, legislative regulations, but also through the improvement of the use of modern technologies. Contemporary information technologies and digitisation are certainly a prerequisite and one of the priority objectives with an improvement in the economic and investment environment. When it comes to parent books, what is foreseen by the new Bill proposal is the new concept of keeping these data, i.e. keeping parent books in the Central Register. The prerequisite and task that all municipalities had to fulfil was the introduction, i.e. the transfer of parent books into electronic form. This stood as a commitment to municipalities and cities, starting in 2009. However, the municipality from which I come, the municipality of Trstenik, has camped some 5% of the work done for seven years. Wherever this subject is talked about, the Triestenik municipality has been cited as a negative example and always in a negative context and a negative light. The arrival of SNS on power purchased equipment, hired employees on this mission and for a very short period of time, for only a month, this result has been significantly corrected. It was brought to 80% of the data entered from the parent's books. So the citizens of Tristenik municipality were simply the hostages of an irresponsible and inert authority that was reluctant to hold Tristenik in one position that was indeed not appropriate. With good faith and organization, we have managed to do what our predecessors are not in seven years. And it is very important to save time and to simplify the procedure, because this proposal foresees that all changes that lead, in fact, institutions and institutions, are done electronically, which will significantly facilitate the work of the service. When it comes to the Law on Local Self-Government, I welcome the fact that it insists on greater participation of citizens and other interested subjects in the public debate and issues of local self-government itself. It is also important that the relationship between the local community and the municipality itself will be regulated, so that we do not get back into the situation of breaking the law and that the DRI writes reports concerning irregularities in the work of local communities. We also had a case like that in Triestenik municipality. I'd only read a few items. So the local communities of Trstenik paid and recorded fuel, and they didn't own cars of millions and 140 thousand dinars. The municipality of Trstenik did not supervise the work of the local community, and since self-delivery is being called for in order to carry out some large investments, large capital projects relating to both the sewerage network and the infrastructure and to everything that is paving citizens, for the purposes set out in the decision to introduce self-dependencies, because in this way, it would not be allowed to spend on other purposes, as it would reduce the will of the citizens who voted for the decisions made for the precise purposes of the funds used. In Triestenik we had the situation that the funds were mostly spent on the expenditures of local communities, to donate donations to NGOs, without competitions, sports clubs, no competitions, the assembly of tenants, associations, no competitions, no legal basis. Also, without the decision of the Tristenik Municipality Assembly in ten years, the amount of 22 million and 149 thousand was spent. So it is very important that the relationship between the local community and the municipality will be united through one law, which will specify some things in order to lead our finances transparently, so that we know where the money goes, because it is the money of citizens of cities and municipalities, and it is very important to spend on the purpose provided for by the decision on self-deliveries. There is a legal basis for co-operation of municipalities on projects of regional importance. That, too, I welcome because in this way municipalities and cities will be able to solve large-scale projects that are very important to citizens. When it comes to projects being implemented at a local site, it is extremely important that local self-government and the government of the Republic of Serbia have very good co-operation, that local self-government in the government of the Republic of Serbia has a reliable partner and that at any time they can rely on the ministries with which they co-operate intensively. What is very important, and what is the focus of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the launch of all regions, on a balanced investment in all the districts to develop particularly undeveloped areas which, as witnesses have been lagging behind for years, because in some politically similar cities and municipalities the funds were going away and others remained undeveloped and devastated. It is extremely important, and it gives the results of good vertical cooperation and, here in Triestenik, large investment projects are realised, and we have shown that we are no longer the municipalities leading the policy of attack and conflict, but the municipalities that want to co-operate, develop, meet their obligations and have cost us very dearly the policy that the previous president of the municipality has led, and it is time to overcome what has cost us for a long time and to start to develop. In the past two years alone, very valuable capital projects have been done in Tristenik, starting with infrastructures, so these are the funds invested by the Government of the Republic of Serbia both in the highways and in the restoration of schools, kindergartens. These are buildings that have been destroyed for years, in which it has not been invested for years, and the municipality certainly did not have the strength to rebuild itself. Government of the Republic of Serbia's strategy for intensive investment in education. We can see it through capital projects that are being implemented throughout Serbia at the restoration of our schools, on energy efficiency to create the best conditions for our students and for our employees. Only in Triestenik, I have to point out, which is a relatively small municipality, are currently performing work on three schools worth 70 million dinars. By the end of the year, two more schools are planned, so, intensively working on projects, we prepare to respond to all potential challenges. It started in preparation for the industrial zone, which was also the state auditor, I spoke a little bit, and I gave the opinion that the unintended funds that have been owed to our municipality and our cities have been spent. We now find a way to equip an industrial zone to create preconditions for the arrival of investors and to start an economy to keep young people in their places. It's done intensively in resuscitating the rinks, equipping the cities when it comes to water supply, a sewerage network. These are all major projects, very expensive ones that have waited for us because the previous government did not find it appropriate, it had no power, knowledge or ability to commit itself to these projects. In the voting day, given everything in mind, I will be very happy to support these laws in order to improve the situation in our cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39018	The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39019	Thank you. Just for a little while. Miss Turk has just brought out life what's important and what's going on in local self-government. I just want to confirm that after many years, after a lot of problems in April 2017, Tristenik made a copy of the parent books and that there is not again that we missed something, I would only add that, if I were not mistaken, the Tristenik municipality also applied for a kindergarten project, and everything in the context of this innovative and population policy. I mention this because the municipality of Trstenik received funds after that application, not in any amount, of about five or six million. In any case, it should be added to what you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39020	I thank the ministers. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. She's not present. The word is sent to the people by Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39021	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk today about the draft laws of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government because there are some solutions that will further improve the work of local self-government units, and I would like to point out that. Amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government should be made in order to comply with other laws, but also to remove the shortcomings observed when this law was adopted in 2007. In addition, it is very important to highlight the participation of citizens in the public debate, i.e. citizens are given the opportunity to initiate a public debate on the authority of the local self-government unit. The newspaper, which will be applied to the next local elections, refers to a reduction in the number of local officials depending on the number of municipality residents, i.e. the city. Also, the concept of determining the competence of local self-government units has been amended, so it is no longer taxatically cited what are the responsibilities of local self-government units, but areas from which they will draw their responsibilities. Finally, as far as local communities are concerned, relations between local authorities and local self-government units are being arranged. Serbia is seeking to comply with the principle that exists in the modern democratic states, which is open dialogue, i.e. public co-operation with the authorities of the state administration, in the decision-making process and regulation-making process. In 2009, the Council of Europe adopted a code of good practice for the participation of citizens in the decision-making process, and we are now on the way to implementing these principles. Serbia joined an open administration partnership and thus committed to strengthening transparency, efficiency and accountability of public authorities through co-operation with civil society, through easier access to information, participation of citizens in public affairs management, use of new technologies, and all with the aim of establishing a more effective and responsible work of public authorities. Also, the amendments to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration will comply with the Law on Local Self-Government on Community Co-operation, when local self-government units are entrusted with dealings which they could carry out in co-operation with other local self-government units, and then have to conclude an agreement on inter-municipal co-operation in order to make them more rational and professional. The involvement of citizens is necessary, their role is of great importance for the proper exercise of power, and citizens must be provided with participation in the creation of democratic institutions. This is precisely the reason for confirming the additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which will include the right to participate in public life at local level and the right to inform by local authorities. The European Charter of Local Self-Government has also been confirmed in the National Assembly and it declares the principle that local authorities are the main foundation of a democratic society and that it is the right for citizens to carry out public affairs at a local level that is very important. I must say that this has also been established as a principle that is unique for all Member States of the Council of Europe. The additional protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to take part in the affairs of local authorities was drawn up by the European Committee on Local and Regional Democracy, and in 2017, Serbia joined and signed this protocol, and it is logical that we also have before us a proposal for a law confirming this additional Protocol. As for national minorities, I would like to highlight the very good proposals that are ahead of us, which will regulate the status of members of national minorities. The Republic of Serbia has been defined by the opening of Chapter 23 to improve the institutional and legislative framework in the fields of human and minority rights, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted an Action Plan for the exercise of the rights of national minorities. The Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was adopted in 2002. After that, constitutional changes occurred in 2003 and 2006, and a whole set of laws was adopted that applied systematically to members of national minorities. The changes that occurred during this time, but also the constant need to improve the position of national minorities, imposes reasons for the adoption of this law, in order to continue the development of policies in the area of protection of members of national minorities. In this way, a legal basis will be created for the legal regulation of measures to improve equality in order to achieve representation of members of national minorities in the public sector, the exercise of the right to enter data on national membership in official records and the personal data collection. It is also necessary to regulate the official use of language and letters by national minorities and the right to choose and use national symbols. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Official Use of Language and Letters, the adoption of this Act is accompanied by amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in order to ensure the unity of the legal order and the mutual compliance of the Regulations. It is also necessary to regulate the implementation of certain measures provided for in the Action Plan for the exercise of the rights of national minorities adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's important here is that local self-government will have jobs when these laws come into force, because they are obliged to introduce their statutes into equal use of the language and letters of the national minority if the percentage of members of that national minority in the total population reaches 15%. Also in populated local self-government units where the number of members of the national minority reaches 15% of organ names, the names of units of local self-government, squares and streets are printed in the language of the national minority. The assembly of units of local self-government will establish the settlements in the statutes. We also have something that will refer to the National Assembly, namely, a provision that says that a national MP belonging to a national minority whose number in the total population of the Republic of Serbia reaches at least two percent has the right to address the National Assembly in the language of the national minority. Finally, we have a draft law amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act, the reasons for the adoption of this law are a little wider, so it is not just a mere alignment with other regulations, although there is also a need and a need for implementing the measures set out in the Action Plan. As a result of the initiative for the assessment of the constitutionality of this law, the Constitutional Court made a decision obliging it to apply its opinion in that decision, when implementing the provisions of certain provisions of this law. Under the applicable law, the National Council establishes institutions, companies and other social life organisations in which it operates. However, the Constitutional Court considered that the establishment of companies is only possible if this is provided for in specific laws, so it is necessary to bring those provisions in line. In addition, the changes concern many more issues, better co-operation with state authorities, the issue of use and availability of property, depolitisation of national councils, i.e. the issue of incompatibility of functions, further the issue of working relationship in the national council, the financing of councils, the control of the work of national councils, and so on. Finally, I would like to invite MPs to support these proposals in the day of voting and the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is being led in these areas, and what I would like to conclude is exactly what I talked about last week when we had proposals for the NBS law, so I will not repeat myself, but I will take the opportunity to point out again the successes of Ms Tabakovic and her team at the NBS for our country, and I will wish her even more success in her further work, and I will also support this proposal with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-12-0.u39022	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this would be the end of today's work. We continue our work tomorrow, Wednesday, June 13, 2018, starting at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
