ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to refer my question to the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government, the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. Why the wide range of addresses I'm referring to? It is the fate of education and health care, so Serbian education and health care in Kosovo and Metohija. We all know, or at least we hoped, that it would remain two of the only levers of the Serbian state in the area of Kosovo and the Metohija that will not be integrated into so-called. Independent Kosovo. We had deep hope and faith, given the fact that even the one upside down, no Brussels Agreement meant the integration of our education and health care into the so-called so-called. The Kosovo system, i.e. assumed, at least according to the story, that it would allegedly have complete executive powers when forming a community of Serb municipalities. Unfortunately, what we have in the area of Kosovo and Metohija on the ground is quite different. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I will inform you that there is currently a competition for the reception of workers in the municipality of Zubin Potok. Kosovo's education and so-called Kosovo's health care. So it's about a competition that was called on May 23rd, a few days ago, in which it stands - based on Article 8(1). Law on the work of Kosovo and Article 3(1) The administrative manual for regulating working procedures in the public sector and the Law on Education in the municipalities of the Republic of Kosovo, according to the Municipality of Zubin Potok, on 24.5.2018, announces or announces a competition for the next posts. I wouldn't read any further the job description and the number of perpetrators. I will only say that in preschool education 14 employees, in primary education 50 employees, in secondary education 45 employees and in health care 25 employees. Who did this? Dear colleagues, this contest has not been announced by any Ministry of the Republic of Kosovo or by any of their competent services and has been glued to the advertising board in Zubin Potok municipality, but has already been done by the mayor of Zubin Potok. In the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Leposavić and Zvecan, unfortunately, these competitions have already been implemented and workers for the so-called ". Kosovo's education system and Kosovo's health system. So it's about the people, the mayors of these municipalities, who the state of Serbia supported as representatives of the Serbian list on the so-called "Serb List". Kosovo's elections and said they are the only guarantee that we will remain part of Serbia, especially for these areas. I must remind you that everyone else who tried to participate in these elections, whose I am, of course, an opponent, but everyone else, including Oliver Ivanovic, was advertised to the enemies of the Serbian state. So, even people who are not only mayors in the Kosovo system at the same time, are also presidents of temporary bodies appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia and directly violate the country's constitution and laws. My question to all these addresses is – did they do this themselves or did they do it on someone's orders? If they've broken the law and the Constitution themselves, I'm asking for immediate action by the authorities, including the prosecution. We almost had the opportunity to hear from the Kosovo and Metohija Office report that we reportedly preserved the institutions of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija in 2017. This is direct proof that in the area of our municipalities, the so-called city hall is being installed. Education and so on. The health of the Republic of Kosovo so that our president, who is obviously in a hurry to come up with the final solution to Kosovo, will say that he is not guilty, so it will turn out that this surrender and treason will likely be the fault of Prince Lazar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37504	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37505	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Minister of the Interior Mr Stefanovic – when will the head of the Police Administration of the Republic of Serbia be appointed? Namely, this place, the most important operational place in the police system of the Republic of Serbia, has been vacant since December 2016, a year and a half, when the then chief retired. The post of head of the criminal police administration is most important because the administration is fighting organised crime, drug dealers, mobsters and other criminal groups. It is just amazing that in the four years of Nebojska Stefanovic's term, the post of chief will be filled only for a year. To remind me, after Mr. Milovic's shift in June 2014, 17 months of police officers working at the Police Administration were waiting for the election of a new chief. The elected chief, who remained in office for barely a year and now again for 18 months, is the most important, I repeat, the administration has no commander. What are the consequences of this administration being practically unable to work in full capacity, Serbian citizens can see each day. There are almost daily murders and the most serious crimes. I think the police minister, instead of organising a parade, throwing rubber boats at Belgrade fountains, should start doing his job and finishing his appointments and sharing tasks with the police. I believe that the Serbian police have a large number of, most high-quality honest people who are ready and want to deal with organised crime, but I do not believe that such a mood is at the top of the police force, because instead of facing the problem of growing crime, co-workers of the minister and the police minister themselves deceive the public that the number of crimes is reportedly reduced, not taking into account the structure of the crimes. Although there are fewer murders today than there were 17, 18 years ago, if you look at the murders that are related to organized crime, to the accounting of criminal groups of drug dealers, that number is on the rise. Today, criminals in Belgrade are killing each other in what it looked like in the '90s, in those times we believed they would never come back. But apparently, the police minister doesn't mind, and there's no desire, no will, and I'm afraid of knowing, to engage in the fight against organised crime. I think we as a parliament would have to ask the minister of police to explain why the post of head of the criminal police administration is not filled in, and when will this work be over? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37506	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37507	Thank you. I refer my first question to the Minister for Construction Affairs, Mrs Zorani Mihajlovic, within the meaning of Article 172. The law on planned and construction, where inspection supervision is prescribed, shall be carried out by the competent Ministry of Urban Affairs and Civil Engineering through inspectors and within the meaning of Article 173, where it is prescribed that the urban inspector shall verify whether the company or another legal person or entrepreneur who makes up spatial and urban plans meets the prescribed conditions. I am speaking on behalf of my neighbours, speaking as a citizen, a resident of New Sad settlements Limani, as a neighbour and not as a politician, because I want to support the protests of citizens who have been going on for several days, against the plan of general regulation of these settlements, where the building of multi-supervised garages that threaten to destroy all the green areas in the only humanly urbanally designed New Zealand settlement of Limani is planned. I ask the Minister to tell me if there are legal powers, which are powers, and does he intend to take them, in order to prevent the adoption of this urban plan? At the same time, I condemn the mayor's statement that he practically threatened the citizens to go into some kind of party count, that he would also start to carry out some of his petitions, so that later he would count who more petitions collected and accused his fellow citizens of blocking the development of the city because they oppose kindergartens and so forth. I ask – is there any strategic assessment of the environmental impact of urban solutions like this, and as long as the cities around Serbia are going to meet investors, that every square meter of green area, which by nature does not bring profit, is going to give up to investors in order to exhaust every potential dinar of profit from it? Do we know how much this will affect the quality of life of citizens, how much it will destroy green areas, raise temperature in the hot summer months, and how much this will endanger safety in view of the maintenance of these floor garages? It is particularly paradoxical that in Novi Sad for settlements in the Limanes we build floor garages and we have, for example, a public garage of the public company “Spens”, which is, for example, locked up for decades and cannot be used. The mayor declares that it is the politicisation conducted by the opposition. Here, I don't have any votes in the New Now City Assembly and I don't pose any opposition. And if we're going to just measure the election results, the majority support and so on, well, here it is in the Lymans the ruling party is not and will never win the election. Well, if we round up Lyman as a scaled continent, here, in the Lymans there is no doubt that the majority will of citizens that such an urban plan is not realized. I ask Minister Zorana Mihajlovic to provide me with answers to the questions asked. I would like to refer the second question to Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic. From the president of the company's shareholders Milan Blagojevic, we have received information about unusual bankruptcy events in this company. These procedures are most likely to damage small shareholders and entrusting the company's assets. It is a series of proposals to launch bankruptcy proceedings, which are filed before business courts in Belgrade and Novi Sad, where the company's headquarters is now being moved to Novi Sad so that the series of requests for the launch of bankruptcy proceedings can continue. It seems that it is of interest for this team to launch bankruptcy proceedings to act as a ban on enforcement and settlement for the benefit of the trustees, making trustees consciously damaged. The problem with two bankruptcy cases in Novi Sad is that, according to one bankruptcy case, the judges, acting, refused to impose a ban on execution and settlement, so that these same applicants would later apply for a new bankruptcy procedure and for another bankruptcy judge to impose a ban on execution and settlement, and there is a suspicion that Article 375 has been violated here. The Rules of Procedure of the Court, as well as the Law on a litigation procedure, which is applied accordingly to bankruptcy proceedings, because it was in fact necessary to bring these two cases together and act on a uniform caselaw which, in the case of "Milana Blagojevica AD", obviously does not exist. As a result, we suspect that there is an abuse of bankruptcy proceedings in order to damage trust. The last question I am referring to is the Minister of Finance – is he familiar with the problem of a hundredfold increase in tax base on property of landowners in the village of Futog, belonging to the municipality of Novi Sad, which threatens the production of a national brand with the protection of the geographical tax – the futus, because their property tax has been increased from 1,500 dinars per hectare to up to 150 thousand dinars per hectare? That way, their products threaten to disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37508	Thank you. The word is Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37509	I'm referring to the Minister of the Interior. First, I would like to know whether he is familiar with a solution issued by the Sava Venac Police Administration, which prohibits the Serbian Radical Party's assembly, a protest rally for the purpose of maintaining the so-called "save". events titled "Mirdita" in Belgrade? Is he familiar with the content of the arguments in the solution, which states that Kosovo is an independent state? The official solution we received from the MUP said the goal of meeting Serbian and Kosovo social and cultural communities, etc., and then said -- as artists and performers from Kosovo will attend the festival, which are contrary to the views of supporters of the Serbian Radical Party. I believe that we together should all defend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, that we do not have the same views. They advocate an independent Kosovo, and we defend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and say Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia. The time has come for us today and tomorrow to defend, apparently, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija from the state authorities. Will Minister Stefanovic sanction someone for such a solution, or is this a new kind of SNS policy? I expect this solution will be abolished and will ban the scene of the Cyprus that will take place in Belgrade. The second question, whether Minister Stefanovic is informed about the policy represented by the organiser of the meeting, is about the Youth for Human Rights Initiative, an NGO that openly says it has been funded by Western embassies and has been funded over a million euros over the past three years. They have issued the so-called document and are signatories of Kosovo's phenology, from 1974 to 2018, which states that General Delic is a war criminal, that the state of Serbia has done ethnic cleansing in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, that the internal dialogue carried out by the president of the state is a clear farce and you have this on 40 sides. They're the organizers of tomorrow's rally. You forbid us, you allow them. On their site, the Youth Initiative says there are in the countries where the countries of Montenegro, Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo exist. It's an organizer of a rally that will be tomorrow and in the next four days. Then they say, they were known for it and are proud to prevent promotions of books such as those in the Youth House when they called it the home of Belgrade criminals, and it was a promotion of Krajisnik's book and they were rewarded for it. On their site you can read daily that they are above the state, by demanding to suspend the laws, to suspend the political system and Seselj and the SRS parliamentary group called Seselj's traveling circus, and, as you know, they came before the Assembly and asked - get Seselj out of the Assembly. Is that, as it says in this shameful solution, some kind of culture of anything? Did we suspend the Kosovo and Metohija Office? I guess they're the ones who organize various cultural and artistic societies from Serbian culture. There's no S.H.I.E.L.D. culture. Or is this really an official memo from the MUP, a change in the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards Kosovo and Metohija? We expect Minister Stefanovic to respond urgently if he did not have these facts, and will be forwarded to him, to prohibit the maintenance of this shameful Shipatarian lobbyist event in Belgrade? While some of us here today are talking about protecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you saw that yesterday, the Shiphars in Kosovo and Metohija continue to savage? I'll remind you that three Serbs were injured at Kline yesterday and that they had not stepped down throughout the day, but surrounded them around the local church. It is very important to note, when I have officially shown this document, I do not have time to talk about it yet, in this document criminal UCK or KLA is treated as a people who had to rise to arms against Serbian repression.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37510	Time. Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, Mr Siprian Kasamu, who is also president of the Executive Committee of the African Parliamentary Union, who are meeting with members of the delegation for an official visit to the Republic of Serbia. I would once again like to thank President Siprian Kasam and the members of the delegation for visiting the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and for the clearly expressed views of respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia today. Now the word has Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37511	Thank you. My first question today is to address the Minister of the Interior, and it can also refer to the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Foreign Affairs - how do they think they solve the problem of Serbian citizens these days in the course of the travel season, which has emerged due to inadequately resolving the issue of extending the validity of traffic permits? There have already been speculation as to whether some foreign countries will accept this way of extending the validity of documents and the other day, the Hungarian Embassy officially issued a statement to Serbian citizens that it would not accept the A4 certificates issued in the Republic of Serbia in order to extend the importance of expired traffic permits. As if Serbian citizens are not sick and tired of driving old cars, which are no longer needed in more developed countries and driving them for ten years and more, but now with those cars they cannot cross the border with their vehicles. How do they think they solve this problem at the time of the year when it travels most? Another question I would like to refer to the former mayor of Belgrade and, behold, to our future obviously finance minister, Sinishi Malo. I won't mention his affairs. They were talked about yesterday all day. I have one question. It's about finance. I'd like to hear an explanation. At the end of last year, he made a statement that the city of Belgrade will achieve 800m euros in tourism revenues by the end of the year and that the number of tourists in Belgrade will reach a million by the end of the year. Without intending to engage in some very detailed analysis of these numbers, I am primarily interested in how this bill was received, how is indeed this 800 million euros in revenue, through what is seen? Here, yesterday, the prime minister made a point to many of my colleagues that they hadn't prepared well enough, that there wasn't enough clear analysis done, so I'd like to know what methods and what data this number was given? It is interesting that these figures suggest that if Belgrade has some million tourists, each of these tourists spends, this can be seen by the simplest calculation, about 800 euros in Belgrade. This is very interesting to me, given that we, Serbian citizens, usually spend far less than that when we go abroad, so I'm interested in how this bill was received, and how could that be explained to us? I would also like to ask the interior minister, since he told reporters the other day that he did not know how much this celebration cost that blocked Belgrade and prevented Belgrade from moving for a few days? I find it strange that he doesn't know it, but when he finds out how much it cost it would be nice for him to tell us, citizens, too, that we know how much it costs. I would like to refer the next question to Serbian Prime Minister Ani Brnabic. Here, we had my colleagues and I had a chance to talk to her yesterday all day and that's nice. What many of my fellow MPs and many journalists have problems communicating with the prime minister, and I would quote here, I would say, very, as some say, a significant example of her communication. I think the question has been asked about illegal construction on the Kopalnik. I think the question was asked by journalist Danica Vukinic, so the prime minister to the question, what will be done, in order to resolve this issue, asked whether she should go with a hammer to bring down what was built. I don't think that's right, and I'd ask the Prime Minister why she takes all these questions so personally, since she has the highest function in the country, and that when we ask such a question, especially the press, I think she should be prepared sometimes for a bit of unpleasant questions, because that's how it happens when you have a very high function, and that doesn't mean that it's personal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37512	Time. Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37513	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior, Nebojsa Stefanovic. In fact, ten months after strangers broke into the apartment of journalist "Krik" Dragane Peco, no prosecutor's office confirmed to the investigators "Krik" that he was handling the case. The police refuse to give any oral response until the investigation has arrived. Although the previous ten months, journalists from the First General Prosecutor's Office received information that they were working to shed light on journalist Dragana Peco's apartment, several days ago in this prosecutor's office said the case was not with them and that they were not in the process. The police have never delivered anything to us, not a report, or anything else, are the submissions of the First General Prosecutor's Office, Aleksandra Djenadic. She also added, quotes: "Call the police to see who they are and if they have submitted anything. “ The police, however, have never been able to get any information they need. Interior Ministry spokesman Nemanja Pantic did not want to answer the question about whether police provided any documentation to the prosecutor's office and instructed reporters from "Krik" to respond to requests for access to information of public importance. After two e-mails were sent from the Bureau of Media Co-operation with the MUP, they said there are technical problems and do not receive e-mails from journalists "Krik", as well as that they do not have permission to provide them with information orally. Information on where the case is and if anyone is working on it has also tried to get from prosecutor Zorin Zogovic, who is a contact point of the working group for the safety of journalists. He referred them to the D.A.'s office saying there was no information on which prosecutor's office to handle the proceedings. Let us remind you, the apartment of journalist KRIK, Dragane Peco, was robbed and knocked out in July 2017, but nothing was stolen from it, not even a laptop, nor a mobile phone, which stood in plain sight. Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic said a few days after the event that police are doing everything to resolve the case completely and added that the police are familiar with two groups that he said operate in the area. Also, he said whoever did it would have to answer. He said that in September, adding that more people were heard about the case. Ten months later, however, the case is not in any of the prosecutions and it is not known if anything has been done to expose the perpetrators. The case of journalist KRIK Dragana Peco is not lonely, which is reminded by numerous domestic and international organisations. The independent association of Serbian journalists often reminds that cases of attacks against journalists are not resolved, some even longer than a decade. According to their 2014 record, as many as 143 attacks on journalists have been recorded in Serbia. The international organisation Reporters Without Borders noted in the latest report that journalists in Serbia are not safe because numerous attacks on them have not been investigated or sanctioned. In a report on human rights for the previous year, the State Department said journalists and media in Serbia during 2017 were victims of intimidation, physical attacks, as well as of disgusting media campaigns of pro-government media. For all of this, I repeat my question once again to the Ministry of the Interior, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, as long as the police have reached the lighting of this case and how is it possible that 10 months since the invasion of journalist Dragana Peco's apartment, the investigation has not moved from the dead spot? On this occasion, I would also appeal to Interior Minister Mr Stefanovic to influence the protection of civil sector representatives fighting crime in the country. I would also like to appeal for the protection of all those who are critically reviewing the work of the government, officials and representatives of the government. I also urge the citizens of Serbia and the public to insist on lighting the case and competent to treat responsibility for it as a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37514	The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37515	Thank you, Chairman. My first question is for the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Labour and the PIO Fund. So, when, in what period and in which amount of money will the pensioners be paid back to those pensioners who died in the meantime, will the pensioners' funds be paid back to the heirs of those who died in the meantime? The second question, on the same basis – is whether on the basis of the current and current writing of the list "Politika" the refund of funds seized from pensioners is actually called an increase in pensions in the future. Are they actually going to pay them back from the same fund, and they're going to call it an increase in pensions? The second question is for the health minister – is it true in the media that every month 120 specialists leave the state of Serbia, how many nurses leave the country and is he aware of the national disaster we are skating and that he will soon have no one to treat us? The next issue also for the health minister and the minister without portfolio Slavica Djukic Dejanovic – is it true that the population measures, in terms of financial support for families with children, will be denied parents whose children are not vaccinated? Does Torlak produce vaccines? What laboratory reference controls the quality of vaccines and those produced in Serbia and those imported? Does a parent have the right to know the origin and quality of the vaccine during mandatory immunisation of their children and who guarantees it? I ask the third question to the president of Serbia, the Prime Minister, the director of the co-ordination body for southern Serbia and the minister without portfolio, Nenada Popovic, as well as the Minister of Economy, why did the state not prevent the alienation of AIK in Medvedja? Why does the state not retain ownership of over 500 hectares of territory in southern Serbia? Serbian citizens probably don't even know that about three and a half thousand Serbs live in Medvedja, and about 500 Albanians, but everything else, why does the state of Serbia do nothing to secure its territory in southern Serbia bordering our occupied territory of Kosovo and Metohija? A question for Minister Ljajic. Why, as you visited southern Serbia, did you point out that the PIO Fund's assets will first be offered Vranjska Banja, Sijarinska Banja and Kursumliska Banja? Do you route the Green Transverse or border, simply strengthen the administrative line between central Serbia and our occupied territory of Kosovo and Metohija? The next question is for the culture minister, also for Mark Djuric, director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, why did you allow the event "Mirdita, Good Day" to be organised and promoted in Serbia, which clearly shows respect and respect for the non-existent state of Kosovo? So that's something that's inadmissible. Last question, Rem. When will I answer the parliamentary questions I have been telling them for months, and they refer to the demands of REM from "Pink", from Pink and to the question whether "Pink" recorded a programme in Belgrade from 2014 to 2017 when it was checked out of Serbia and registered from business in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Has anyone been checking and why haven't I been getting an answer for over a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37516	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37517	Thank you, Vice President Arsic. I have two questions. First, I refer to the Minister of Information and the REM Council, which refers to the decision of the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad, which annulled the decision of the board of directors of RTTV, which was dismissed by Slobodan Arežina at the end of January from the position of the director of the programme in this institution. It's usually the second time the court has returned to Free Aregina's job and that the board of directors has replaced him from that place, at one point even firing him. And now he's the director of RTV Miodrag Koprivica that the court's decision will be made by the circuit media service. My question to the minister is how can the board of directors decide whether to respect the court's decision or not? The question to the members of the REM Council is whether they can initiate a procedure to resolve members of the board of directors, because they are breaking the law, directly disobey the court's decision and themselves declare that they have no intention of respecting them, but will make any decisions about whether the court's decision will respect them? Free Arežina is just one of a series of journalists, editors at RTV who in May 2016, after the SNS came to power in Vojvodina, were replaced, expelled or fired from work. All those who have complained so far have been returned to work in court, but it is obvious that in Vojvodina and Serbia led by the SNS decisions of the court do not mean much, because there is always someone above the court who decides whether the court will implement the decisions. The second question was addressed to Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who I will ask to consult Mayor Novi Sad, Milos Vukcevic, as we are not allowed to ask questions to the mayors, and Vukcevic obviously cannot ask any questions. It refers to a senseless concreteization of the green areas in Novi Sad, to its ignoring complaints that citizens of Novi Sad are massing on general and detailed regulation plans. These are thousands of citizens of Novi Sad, who put their signatures on petitions that appear to be in vain to write to Mayor Vukcevic because he rejects them, mocks them and threatens and threatens them or promises that he himself will begin to collect petitions, so as to see who has more citizens, whether he as mayor of Novi Sad and SNS or himself citizens who accuse themselves of being politically instructed, who are actually only trying to preserve those areas where their children play out of senseless concrete, senseless building of new buildings and unsuspecting building of multi-supervised garages in their backyards. So my question -- does the mayor of Novi Sad have the right to treat citizens' complaints this way, since according to the Law on Planning and Construction, they are allowed to file complaints and that these complaints have to be considered? Why doesn't Milos Vukcevic communicate with the citizens? What's he threatening them for, what's he making fun of them for? Can he understand that Novi Sad is not the head board of the SNS, but the Novi Sad in which the Novosads live, who do not agree to be treated by the mayor? Finally, the question to you, Mr Arsic, please ask President Gojkovic, when will the footage not seen on the RTS cameras be delivered, but only on the security cameras of the Assembly, showing that a group of SRS MPs in this room surrounded me while you were pretending not to see anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37518	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37519	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you certainly know that nadhareking is forbidden in Serbia. It's forbidden to return and divination. My first question is for the Ministry of Health, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Administrative Board and the Tax Administration - did counterparts Branka Stamenkovic and Ana Stevanovic report to the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Administrative Board, their new activity? It's the treatment of su-jack or su-dick therapy, reiki and feng shui. There is living proof that they provide such a service. So, Health Ministry, do they have a treatment license this way? If they don't, it's surreal. Number two - did they report this activity to the tax authorities because any service should be paid tax? Number three, if this is party activity, did they report it to the Anti-Corruption Agency? If it's personal, did the Agency, the mother of one of them, work there, ask the Anti-Corruption Agency for the right to deal with medicine or drug abuse depending on whether this is reported, yes or not? Furthermore, to help Mr. Alexic, who tried yesterday to bring this government into contact with the payment of consulting services to the United States. So, if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia had answered whether the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic had ordered consulting services in the United States, say? Did they also pay for how many consulting services were paid during the party's government that resembles the movement of thieves and freemen? So, is that paid how much it's paid? Te, does the current government do what the former did? Is she ordering consulting services in the U.S. and paying for it? So I want the opposition to meet me. A team before it is known that Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic worked actively to build a wild state of Kosovo and Metohija. They did nothing about declaring its independence, and then they submitted some non-binding opinions, making it difficult for the Republic of Serbia, which I believe is not an accident, and according to the deputys, "Vikiliksa" claims that they were praying for the US Embassy to postpone the independence, prolonging in exchange for the renewal of President Boris Tadic's mandate. The third issue concerns the establishment of a centre for the destruction of the legally elected government in Serbia, so the centre formed in Skopje, which forms the United States and where activities are being conducted against the state of Serbia, against authorities elected in democratic elections, where they actively participate in the construction of the centre, where $18m has been paid, to actively participate again in Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic. With that in mind, to answer me, did he meet with the US Embassy military attachés? I want to know if these activities in Skopje exist. Are they against the Republic of Serbia? Are they intended for the destruction of government in the Republic of Serbia? Te, do these mentioned faces participate in this? Not to forget to add Borko Stefanovic and the unsurpassed great political leader Janko Veselinovic. I think that center is formed. I want the state to answer that, because I don't like our opposition to be as valuable as moles, to undermine the state, to work for the state, but not for this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37520	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37521	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I have been asking a question at one of the sessions recently about the treasonous work of Vuk Jeremic while he was foreign minister, and now I am asking the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime about the corruption affair he was involved in. These days of the earthquake, we have a world corruption affair in which Patrick Ho, former Minister of Interior of Hong Kong, was arrested in the United States from 2002 to 2007, and Tadian Gadio, former head of Senegal diplomacy from 2002 to 2010, otherwise former former co-workers of former Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, in a people known as the Vuk descendant. Dear MPs, it is a serious international gang led by Vuk Jeremic. They were arrested in New York on suspicion that, among other things, they were bribed by President Chad Idris Debi and Foreign Minister Uganda Sam Kutes, who otherwise replaced Vuk Jeremic as UN presidency speaker. Is it true that Patrick Ho paid three million and 900,000 euros in 2013 to the Jeremic Institute known as the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development and its private enterprise agency a million and 300,000 dollars? Otherwise, such deals began while Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the UN General Assembly, organised meetings from the post, arranged criminal affairs. Jeremic began to co-operate with Patrick Hoe in the fall of 2012 when he became the chairman of the UN General Assembly. In the spring of 2013, a secret meeting in Hong Kong attended by Ho Patrik, Mr. Jeremic Vuk and his colleague from Harvard Emilio Lozoj, at the time, the leading man of the largest Mexican energy company, "Peks". The meeting reached an agreement on the investment of the company Tea Energy Fund, headed by Ho Patrik, in Mexican oil and gas sources. This meeting took place in Mexico in June 2013, with a total of five billion and three hundred million dollars in payment of Tea Energy and its companies, Vuk Jeremic, starting in autumn 2013. Vuk Jeremic was a mediator between Hoa and Lozoja, both now charged with millions of crime. Vuk Jeremic is close to businessman Lozo, against whom an investigation is being conducted in his country to mediate bribery of as many as ten million dollars. Jeremic represented Lozoya as his brother, and brokered his affairs with arrested Patrick Ho and Tadic Gadija, and not long after one intervention, Vuk Jeremic was paid to account for millions. In September 2013, Jeremic, as an independent MP in this high house, submitted a request to the National Assembly of Serbia's Administrative Committee to allow him to go to the board of directors, believe it or not, of the company Tea Energia Patrick Hoa. Patrick Ho was a consultant and lecturer at Jeremic's Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development. Tykun Patrik Ho, once a Hong Kong police minister, transferred millions of euros to Jeremic through his companies, and was arrested in America on charges of money laundering and bribery by President Chad. Also arrested, sheik Gadio Tidion was a member of the Jeremic International Co-operation and Sustainable Development Advisory Committee. I'm asking the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, has he taken any action in connection with this criminal act of the Vuk Jeremic case? Secondly, on what basis did Wolf Jeremic get $5.3 million and for what purposes? Third, was this money Vuk Jeremic used for a political campaign, which is forbidden because it was money of foreign origin?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37522	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37523	In the end, Vuk Jeremic, called Vuk descendant, Sasa Jankovic, called Sale Prangia, Bosko Obradović, called Lupeti, Zoran Zivkovic, a known farmer in the attempt, Sasa Radulović, called the bankruptcy king, Dragan Sutanovac, called the grab of money, Boris Tadic, called Lipicaner, Balša Bozovic, a red-beard pirate from Maldiva, Đilas, called Điki Mafia, Nenad Canak, called gicoje and others, each of them in their own way damaged the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia and is saying that, besides their nicknames, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia gave them... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37524	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue the search on the 1st item of the agenda – THE CHOICE AND CONCLUSION OF THE COURT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT MEMBER STATE, acting unanimously on Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that she has been invited to attend today's session by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Ana Brnabic and a candidate for a member of the government, Mr Sinisa Mali. We move to work in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. The remaining time of your parliamentary group is 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37525	Thank you, Chairman. I'm gonna use these 40 seconds to congratulate. I will congratulate the ruling coalition that today, by taking the oath of Cynthia Little Serbia, it will actually win a new prime minister, prime minister in shadow. No, it will not be Mr. Sinisa Mali, it will be Mrs. Ana Brnabic because we know that her position, not only is technocratic, as she defines it, but she has no political legitimacy, and we know very well the political history of Serbia and we know that the Prime Ministers, who did not have a political party behind them, were going to politics. I'm expressing a surprise...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37526	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37527	So congratulations to Mr. Malom for becoming Prime Minister today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37528	I didn't understand anything, but okay. The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37529	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, future Finance Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I present the results of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it would not be bad to remember, but also to remind the citizens of Serbia, in what state our economy was before 2012. The state register was empty, the state was almost on the verge of bankruptcy. Gross domestic product ranged from minus 3.5 to minus 2%. The inflation rate was 14% dizzy. Our exchange rate was wild. They fired over 400,000 workers. The unemployment rate at one point was 29.5%. They'll agree with colleagues who come from different local self-government that the public sector had so many employees that the employees didn't have their chairs at work. As the public sector spread and the private sector shut down, loans had to be taken to service public enterprises' debts. So, I'm not talking about a private sector that was either on the verge of bankruptcy or bankruptcy or liquidated. Therefore, credits had to be taken to pay off the profits of that administration. Not to mention investing in infrastructure or investing in housing for anyone in our country. Now they're telling us how to stimulate birth, to raise the birth rate. You know, when I graduated from college in 2008, the first question on the job questionnaire was marital status, the second question whether I was planning on getting married, the third question whether I was planning on having a child. If the answers are yes, there is no possibility of employment, neither as a trainee nor as a permanent employment. Today, not only is it different, but it's much better. For the former regime, having a child and raising birth rate was a cost, and today we are stimulating birth and we want to raise the birth rate. In the past, our government has achieved fantastic results. We have achieved an economic growth of 4.5% and our economic growth is at EU Member States level, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania. For the first time since 2005, both indicators of fiscal position have been positive. The total fiscal surplus in 2017 was 1.2% and the primary fiscal surplus was 3.9% of GDP. We have a record low inflation rate of 1.4%. We have stability of the domestic currency. We managed to raise foreign exchange reserves and we have coverage for importing goods and services for the next five months, if any extreme earthquakes occur. Our unemployment rate is record low. We hired over 180,000 people. We managed to increase profits both in the private and public sectors. In the public sector by 5.6%, in private by 4.9%, and this directly reflected the increase in aggregate demand because, I repeat, our inflation rate is record low. We've cut public debt. Today it is 59%, and it used to be 77%, and we managed to reduce public debt, while at the same time building infrastructure and roads, and the railroad, reconstruct schools, equip medical centres. Let us not forget that in 2014, we had catastrophic floods that caused damage to unprecedented proportions. The estimated damage was about a billion euros. Over four and a half thousand kilometers of roads, 250 bridges, over 80,000 orans, over 200 tons of dead animals, were destroyed. We've been over it and we've been able to achieve fantastic results. Even international agencies dealing with credit rating estimates have rated us extremely high. This means that we will also have GDP growth in the coming period, which will be stimulated by growth in earnings and growth in foreign direct investment. All the results mentioned above are only part of the results our government achieved in the previous period. Part of the winning team will become a man who has fantastic results behind him. Mr. Sinisa Mali is not only an expert in his doctoral education, but is an expert in the results of his work as mayor of Belgrade in his four-year term. In his term as a rating agency, Moodys praised the financial results of Belgrade City, and for the first time the city of Belgrade received a credit rating. And not to mention that the debt of the City of Belgrade has been halved, that four times the deficit in the budget has been reduced, that hundreds of kilometers of new roads have been built and over seven and a half thousand streets have been restored. When it comes to the "Belgrade on Water", it was once a dream, almost unimaginable. Today it is nothing before us, and the value of the project is about three billion euros. Three and a half billion, I apologize. Also reconstructed is Slavi Square, which was once the ugliest square in Belgrade, and today is the pride of all Belgraders. Then, the Flower Square was reconstructed and it was erected to the monument of Borislav Pekic. The Hilton and Ikea hotel is open, which is a status symbol for the rise of living standards. Belgrade has not only become a city of cranes and cranes, but has become a world metropolis. At a tourism fair in Shanghai, Belgrade was named the most popular tourist destination and Belgrade visited over a million tourists annually. In yesterday's discussion, counterpart Goran Kovacevic mentioned the title holder of Serbia's best minister, Lazar Pacu. I have no doubt that by your experience and your work in the coming period you will bring that title, and that the government, refreshed by the new member, will achieve even better results in the coming period. Thank you to all citizens of Serbia, thank the Belgraders for the assured trust and the support given to the SNS and our President, Alexander Vukic. The SNS parliamentary group will certainly support Mrs. Ana Brnabic's proposal for the new finance minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37530	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37531	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Sinisa Mali, I just have to say at first that I'm a little confused with the exposure of my colleague Vukomanovic, because I'm not sure which one of us made the mistake of the joke. We are here today, as far as I know, on the agenda discussing and talking about the selection of the finance minister. And I think I'm in the right place. When it comes to the Single Serbia parliamentary group, the president of our parliamentary group Dragan Markovic Palma made it clear yesterday that he would support you in the election for Finance Minister. Former Minister Vujovic, who I personally have a positive opinion on because he came as an expert and how correctly he could do his job, told himself at the beginning of his term that he was sitting on a hot chair and that he had taken over one of the most responsible resistors. I'm telling you the same thing today, and I'm sure you're aware of it yourself. Not even the job of the mayor that you've been doing, especially the city, a big city like Belgrade is certainly not easy. Yesterday, Dragan Markovic Palma said that you were doing a good job, and when he as someone who is recognizable as one of Serbia's best mayors says that, then he has some weight and then there is certainly a reason for all of us in Unity Serbia to recognize you. Yesterday, the prime minister presented impressive facts about your work and success in the consolidation of the public sector of the City of Belgrade, the large debts that were recovered and the final situation in which it stabilised the city's functioning. I must say, unfortunately, I, who come from Vranjska Banja, cannot boast of such a mayor, in this case the president of the municipality, because our public enterprises are free to say, in collapse. You as prime minister, and as the new finance minister, I must inform... If you'll excuse me, Mr. Mali, it's important that you hear this, you're the future finance minister and I want you and the Prime Minister to be familiar with this fact. I brought out one of the ministers in the previous tide, but I didn't get any feedback. The vernacular spa got the green light to do something that wasn't practical, and they all agreed. It was supposed to give some positive effects, which is that public companies dealing with municipal activities shut down or put off their functions, and form new and thus all tax debts and contributes that are not paid – turkey dots, doesn't apply, no one, let's do a new series to do. This could all have been acceptable if these new businesses hadn't made it to the blockade in a short time. So I ask you to take advantage of the time and transfer from the Vronjačka Banja municipality to a part of the experience that our public enterprises can finally get out of such a situation. Of course, I am also taking the opportunity to thank the former finance minister not only for doing his job correctly, but also for being a Vranjska bani, and when I say so, I cannot thank the Prime Minister of the time, Mr Alexander Vukic, the complete government, all ministers and the current government and all ministers in this government, because they recognize that Vranjska Banja, who was queen of continental tourism, has long been respected by the Republic and almost no ministry. In Vranjčka spa thanks to the warrant or appeal of Alexander Vukic a few years ago over a billion and a half different investments came together. I would also like to call on behalf of the Vranjačka Banja municipality the President of the Republic of Serbia who has launched this one positive energy and wave of good finances, which have arrived in Vranjska Banj, to invite the current prime minister, to invite the entire government together to mark 150 years of Vranjska Banje jubilee for 150 years of organised tourism. A political man must be recognised by citizens, at least so in Serbia and not only recognized but also recognized. In order to be known, you need to have some concrete work behind you, for example. My colleague Mrkonjic is always or I remember still small while I was, until politics was - Mrkonjic this, Mrkonjic that. So he was recognizable. Engineer Mrkonjic left a written mark on his works. Of course, he was a minister. Dragan Markovic Palma, who was never a minister, who was not the director of the public enterprise, also had a lot of work behind him today when certain policy-related research is being done, according to the popularity of Aleksandr Vukic, who is of course always in the first place, at the very top there is Dragan Markovic Palma, primarily because of the results and works he has left behind in his work so far. You, Sinisa Mali, your last name is diametrically contrary to what has been done in the last few years and you have left behind, whether or not anyone likes it, a serious clue in the functioning of Belgrade City. That is why, because of those acts that have remained behind you, and we of Unity Serbia, by order of the president, appreciate only the actions and nothing more, I said at the beginning we will vote for you as the new finance minister. One more thing that will certainly make the media more popular for you personally is that you are the only minister for whom the Single Serbia parliamentary group in this composition will vote, and since of course you are on the proposal of President Alexander Vukic who has never sinned before in the elections, I must tell you that we have a great expectation of you, first of all, from Unique Serbia because you are the first minister we vote on. We will once again support Mr. Malloy's vote as finance minister today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37532	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37533	Thank you, Vice President Arsic. We, Mr. Mali, will not vote for you. Today, in fact, yesterday, we have a session where the prime minister, who, according to Alexander Vukic, was elected to the prime minister's post, despite the fact that no one wanted to, nor his party, nor his family, nor the citizens, nor the other party of the ruling coalition, but was chosen solely because he wanted, therefore, such a prime minister today to be the minister of finance to us a man who, in his previous office as mayor of Belgrade, according to his own words, was named after the idea of Andrej Vukic, the brother of the current president, and then the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. That's how we have a government, that's how we have a session, and that's how the SNS experiences both the National Assembly and Serbia and its citizens. Yesterday, Mrs. Brnabic, you told us many times that Sinisa Mali was a great mayor, that there was nothing in Belgrade before, there was no construction site, no kindergartens, no roads, no buses, no pensioners, no Belgraders, nothing else, so let me ask you, if he was doing the mayor's job so well, why didn't Sinisa Mali stay Belgrade Mayor? Which is why he wasn't even a candidate for mayor of Belgrade, which is why he wasn't even the first on the list of candidates for the Belgrade City Assembly, and why was SNS then in all ways trying to hide both Sinisha Mali and all those who would, in turn, lead Belgrade in the coming period, so that Belgrade citizens wouldn't accidentally realize that these people were also on the parliamentary list? You say the citizens said what they thought of him. Just from what I'm saying, I conclude that the SNS in the elections did its best to make sure that citizens don't say what they think about Sinisha Malo and his work, because if they were to talk about it, they would talk about a man, unfortunately, Mrs Brnabic, whom he's connected to, I think, most of the affairs of all political actors on our scene, especially those in power, from Savala, of the Shore Companies, Bulgarian Graffologists, state countries, helping his father with privatisation by giving confidential information about companies at the time he ran the privatisation process, 45 bank accounts, friends who funded tens of thousands of francs schooling his children, New Year's lighting. These are, therefore, all the things recommended by Sinisha Malah for the finance minister, and whom they recommend to take care of from tomorrow on Serbian citizens' finances. Since you too are in that position as the president of Serbia described you as coming, and Sinisa Mali, believe it doesn't matter who the finance minister is. Whoever is the finance minister tomorrow, whether Sinisha Mali or anyone else, as my colleagues said yesterday, will be the personal treasurer of Alexander Vukic. That is why neither Sinisha Mali nor you, nor any of the SNS will have the support of the DS to be elected to any function in the country, because you are privatizing the state, you citizens are hoarding against each other, while those poor, you are getting better and better living, and that is why neither Sinisha Mali nor any of you will ever have DS support.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37534	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37535	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I would really like to ask you, Member of 107, because there is really no possibility that this is how you deceive a complete audience, everyone who sees this and all fellow MPs, especially in such a primitive way that you insult someone's family and family members. We heard an incredible thing here, that actually the president's brother chose the finance minister, did you hear that a colleague just said that? We keep hearing here about the President of the Republic's brother, the worst and ugliest lie, that the restaurant owner, half of the Srem, is that he even falsifies in the Covnica money passport for terrorists, we could hear anything here, and no one has ever reacted. I would really ask you to turn to such brutal lies, first of all, to those MPs who spread such nonsense, and on the other hand, if we are already talking about popularity and if anyone knows anything about Mr. Sinisha Malo, they know citizens. In the elections, citizens rewarded him with over 50% support, unlike the option of a lady who won 2% in Belgrade. That's that crucial difference and people have seen otherwise the advantages of Mr. Sinisha's work and rewarded him for his work. Therefore, I absolutely support the position of the Minister of Finance, and I would really ask you to stop here to insult the members of someone's family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37536	Mr Djukanovic, I don't think there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I agree with something that we still need to continue fighting with political arguments. In the absence of political arguments and facts, he resorts to such verbal violence against members of the family of politicians and people who are prominent in politics. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, slowly, does colleague Aleksandra Jerkov or Balša Bozovic, as you wish? Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37537	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 108, I think it's misread and you shouldn't allow anyone to put words in anyone's mouth. It was a quote, it wasn't an accusation, it wasn't anyone who accused anyone's family or anyone's brother. It was a quote from Mr. Cynthia Malloy who gave in an interview when he said that Andrej Vukic was the one who was the most responsible for what he was in the mayor's seat. It was absolutely no one's intention to insult anyone or to represent anyone's family meddling in political life, on the contrary, it was just a quote. I think in that sense, Mr. Arsic, I object to you, because you violated the Rules of Procedure because you did not listen well to your colleague Jerkov, on the other hand, obviously after the deceived Mr. Djukanovic and you continued to deceive further, both the MPs and the public in direct transmission. It was just a quote and no one had any intention of insulting anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37538	My colleague Bozovic, I was unable to violate the provisions of article 108. The Rules of Procedure, because I didn't interrupt my colleague Jerkov and I let her say what she wanted to say. Otherwise, it is true that my position – in the absence of political arguments is used to quotes like that, is presented by such facts... (Alexandra Jerkov: Sign up for the Rules of Procedure. I answer, colleague Jerkov, I have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. So, in the absence of political arguments, this kind of thing is resorted to, which, in my opinion, is legitimate and incorrect. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the People, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37539	Article 100, Vice-President Arsic, who obliges you to make a statement from where you are sitting about what I said, express your personal impressions, flaunt with what I have said, that member obliges you to come down from the vice-presidential seat, sit down in the parliamentary benches, sign up for a word, as well as any other MP or national MP, however you wish, and then speak your views from that place of the People's Parliament, and flaunt with what I have said during my presentation. While you are sitting in the chair, Vice President, you have no right to flaunt what I have said or to bring any valuable judgments about what I have said. Sinisa Mali himself said that the person responsible for him becoming Belgrade Mayor Andrej Vukic and that the thing is that his brother is a close friend with Alexander Vukic. You have no right to interrupt me... (Alexandra Jerkov: You have no right to turn off my microphone. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37540	Comrade Jerkov, I have the right to interrupt you because you have already continued in replication and controversy. I'll read you article 103 that I acted on, and I'll read article 100. But let me tell you, before you refer to article 100, there is another member who has given me the obligation to respond to my colleague Balshi Bozovic. The article says – the first, second, third, fourth position, the fifth position – if it believes that the injury is not done, the president of the National Assembly is obliged, so it is my obligation, not what you are asking me to do, if I want to go down among the MPs. I don't want a replica, I'm required by Article 103 of Section 5 to give an answer. So I don't think there's been a breach of Article 100. Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? (Alexandra Jerkov: Of course, yes. All right. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37541	I'm referring to Article 109. - the notice is made to the MP, if it presents the facts of the assessment relating to the private life of other persons. So you were also obliged to give a warning, and now again to get back to article 107 and let's see, the entire public had a chance to hear what the distinguished colleague was saying. She called on the writings of a journalist, I'm talking about Mr. Hudelist, who allegedly told him about the mayor Sinisha Mali, and then she connected that he was probably Andrej Vukic, today also elected as finance minister. Don't deceive us here. We're not stupid. And it's not all public stupid. You can't treat people like that. I would really ask you to interrupt this nonsense and give a warning of this sort of thing, because there's enough lying, after all, citizens aren't silly, they go to the round elections, they send you into history, they give Mr. Sinisha Malo a chance even further to lead the city. He'll be Minister of Finance now. He's been rewarded for excellent work. So I don't really know what the problem is anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37542	I don't think he's hurt a member of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? (No) Right to the replica of the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37543	I thank the chairman. The Serbian Progressive Party has no need to be ashamed and to put on the list of members of the SNS presidency, former mayor of Mr. Sinisha Mali, but it would be a fraud to put him on the list and propose him as finance minister. Therefore, what you wanted to say here simply does not stand – deceives the public. When you talk about private bankers, what was Mr. Cvetkovic like the finance minister? You also made him Prime Minister, so you told him at the meetings, "Shut up, you don't know anything." So that's what it says about you, about your policy, which, of course, went to history of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37544	The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37545	Thank you. I don't know, given how little political power I have, why are you getting so upset about it? I've been listening all day yesterday, and here you are still talking today about how little political power I have, and I don't know what the subject is, and why is that hurting you so much? But I'm also going to say that I have the incredible political hypocrisy that you're showing me. When Mirko Cvetkovic was Prime Minister, who was not a member of the DS, that was fantastic. It was phenomenal, it was an indicator of democracy, of the rule of law, that there was no partocrat. That's when it was all that couldn't have been better. But when I'm the Prime Minister and I'm not a party member, then it's the scariest thing possible, without having any political power, without someone who's not a party member being in the greatest political position. How is all this possible? But when Mirko Cvetkovic was, then you told a completely different story. So I mean honestly, that's one pair of excellency political hypocrisy, but you chose to run politics like that. Also, I think that the great political hypocrisy is that you are bothered by the alleged affairs of Sinishi Mali, whom I was responding to and giving evidence yesterday, but you were in no way bothered by it, and today you do not mind the largest historical responsibility of the City of Belgrade of billions and 118m euros, nor did you mind 14 billion dinars of unpaid liabilities, nor did you have a record budget deficit of more than 20%, nor did you mind the largest unemployment, historic in Belgrade. In fact, it was 19% in 2006, so Gilas reduced, came to 13.9% in 2010, meaning a relatively good result, which Gilas, with all of his management skills that you then re-supported, brought to 15.8%. So it's up to almost 16% again and today it's 10.8%. In this political hypocrisy 10.8% unemployment is much worse than 16% or 19%. You also did not have problems and expensive kindergartens of 9,700 dinars per month, compared to the price of 5,590 dinars per month, resulting in 15,000 lawsuits at the expense of the City of Belgrade, for which some 450 million dinars were already paid, 448 million, to be exact. It is estimated to be around 20m euros when all charges arrive. It didn't bother you, either, but you're in the way of Cynthia's so-called. affairs. You didn't mind either the underground containers, which doesn't work today, but even though they don't work, we're currently having a lawsuit over them. They didn't bother you. You didn't mind the Big Brother's house in Pioneer Park where children should play. That didn't bother you either, but you're in the way of Cynthia's alleged affairs. I've been listening all day about privatization and how it's one of the scariest things in Sinisha's biography. That's why I asked you last night to give me a list of the privatisations he ran as director of the Competition Privatisation Centre and I'll tell you that everything, and you check it out, all the privatisations that Sinisa Mali as director of the Competition Privatisation Centre ran at that time, all those companies are doing today and all these companies are hiring people today. They are also one of Serbia's largest exporters. One of these is, for example, "Merima" from Kruševac, bought by Henkel. A month ago, I was about to open another additional Henkel plant and it is now becoming one of Serbia's 10 largest exporters. There is the Zorka Farm purchased by Hemofarm, the tobacco industry Nis bought by Philip Morris, the Duvanska Industry Vranje, bought by British American Tabaco, Cementara Beocin, Lafarž, Cementara Kosjerić "Titan", Cementara Popovac "Holtzim". So all companies that are successfully privatised, work well, employ people, contribute to Serbia's economic development and are one of the largest exporters from Serbia. None of the things I listed to you, it doesn't bother you, but that's why you're bothered by the affair doctorate, the man who was the best student of the high school, who was then the best student of the generation at the Faculty of Economics, who got a degree award, who has two master's degrees. One from the Faculty of Economics and one from the United States as their student, a doctorate for which the commission has twice confirmed the authenticity of that doctorate, but good. I told Sinishi this morning, that it wasn't that doctorate and that you weren't doing that Ph.D. and that yesterday I could have imagined that you were a generation student, a generation student, the best master student, then you'd probably tell me – Sinisha Mali is, we heard it from confidential sources, Sinisha Mali was learning by heart. He's a bug, he hasn't studied with understanding. And it's one huge affair that will forever follow Sinisha Little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37546	Right on the line, colleague Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37547	Thank you. You know what, Mrs. Brnabic, you can't compare yourself to Mirko Cvetkovic and the position he had. I don't remember, Mrs. Brnabic, that Tadic said that no one would, nor would the MPs, nor would the party, not even members of his closest family, but, behold, Cvetkovic will only be prime minister because Tadic will. That's what Wolf said to you. Nor did Mirko Cvetkovic, acting as Prime Minister Boris Tadic, say Cvetkovic would be a technical prime minister, and another political prime minister, nor did Mirko Cvetkovic ever speak for himself that he was a technocrat, nor would Ministers in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic race for more, who would better and who would praise Boris Tadic faster, nor did Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as president of the Serbian Parliament at the time, allow anyone to humiliate the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia in the way that Aleksandar Vukic does, first personally, and after leaving the prime minister's post, via you. So you can't compare your position to that. I don't mind you personally, it bothers me because of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It bothers me when the prime minister of the country I live in says that his political mentor is Alexander Vukic, when the prime minister of the state I live in says he's just a technocrat. Such things, I'm sorry, every decent citizen of this country should be disturbed and don't flatter yourself, it's not about you personally. I'm glad that after 18 years we hear that there was no robbery privatisation, that the privatisation process was very successful, that these are the companies where someone works. We've waited 18 years but come on, and if we've waited for you as a technocrat, it's a good thing you finally told the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37548	Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37549	The Honorable chairman, a respected prime minister, should not even be compared to the prime minister who was voted at the government's meetings. You know, the prime minister has no support or ministers, let alone the citizens of Serbia. And you have the support of both Serbian citizens and political parties. So this type of comparison simply gives right to those who know nothing about politics and who showed their results where citizens put them in place, especially in Belgrade, where they got 2%. Thank you. 'Presidency: The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37550	Just a few things. First, I think it's perfectly legitimate to bother you that I say who my political mentor is, but I don't see the weight of it at all. You, of course, may mind whatever, but I don't know what effect that has on the National Assembly and on me and on my work? Can I compare with then Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic? Of course I can't, and we totally agree on that. I do, and our government sessions in the government building aren't phone calls. Then all the government sessions, except for the couple, I think, here, I'll see if they send me the information, were phone calls. So it's true that I can't compare and that's what I'm proud of. Did I say there was no robbery privatisation? Don't twist, that's pretty cheap. I didn't say that. I said Sinisha Mali didn't participate in robbery privatisations between 2001 and 2003. And were there any? Unfortunately, as many people lost their jobs, so many companies shut down, so much has been raised by our imports because companies have been sold, machines exported abroad and from the same machines done abroad and imported into Serbia. For example, “dragon”. Machines have been exported to Turkey, they are working in Turkey, and today we are importing them from Turkey. The "dragon" was sold for less, and it is one of the famous 24 privatisations, for less than the machines cost in "dragon". Generally, I just wanted to tell you that I fully support your, I see, intensities to quote and to refer to the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic and please, just keep it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37551	The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37552	I thank the chairman. Dear Prime Minister Mr. Mali, honourable fellow MPs, Serbia today is a country on a much tighter economic basis than it was just three years ago. The macroeconomic situation is stable, the economy is growing and the inflation rate is stable and low. Achievements in reducing macroeconomic imbalances and speeding up economic growth are significant, given the difficult situation in which the country found itself in early 2015, a situation that threatened bankruptcy. The major fiscal deficit turned into a surplus at the end of 2017, and the public debt is on a stable downward path. The responsible government, together with the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic, has implemented but continues to implement an ambitious plan for structural reforms. This would be the shortest picture of the current macroeconomic situation of the Republic of Serbia, which has passed its difficult way of healing public finances in the previous period thanks to precisely the brave and good decisions of state leadership, in order to achieve a surplus of the state budget on real-time. The macroeconomic stability is seen, among other things, through a low inflation rate which fell from 3% in December 2017 to 1.1% in April 2018, and its further movement is expected in the planned frameworks of around 3%. After more than a decade, a country budget surplus of 1.2% of GDP was recorded in 2017, and this trend continues in 2018 to reach 4.5% of growth, which is an excellent indicator of the country's economic stability. Also, public debt drops by more than 10% in 2017 and totals 59% of GDP. The results have been confirmed by improving Serbia's credit rating with "BB" on "BB", with stable prospects for further growth. The stability of the banking system in Serbia is preserved and further strengthened thanks to the timely measures of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. The share of problematic loans in total credit arrangements fell to 9.2% at the end of March of the current year, their lowest level since 2008. It is important to mention the reform of the tax administration that has led to significant growth in tax revenues on a variety of grounds and surpassing planned fiscal results. Foreign direct investment in the first quarter of 2018 amounted to 569m euros and is expected to grow further in 2018, which is expected to result at the end of the year with 2.6 billion euros. GDP growth was dominantly driven by investment, both state and private, higher consumption and strong export growth. GDP growth has been affected by the production side by the highest growth in construction, and other sectors have made a positive contribution to growth, primarily industrial production and services. All of the above created a favourable environment for the acceleration of economic growth in the coming period. Current macroeconomic indicators contribute to Serbia today being a place that has good preconditions for a better life and a country in which investors, both domestic and foreign, are willing to invest. Technological development, innovation and investment in young professional personnel are Serbia's certainly moving forward with the high-tech demands of the world's most developed countries. But despite the stable macroeconomic situation, there's still a lot of work ahead of all of us. The growth level has to be achieved, and the daily struggle for the benefit of citizens, the stability of public finances and the better future for our children is a commitment for all of us in the future. Finally, as I expect Mr. Malom to receive support from most of the MPs today, I would like successful work in the next period of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as his four-year term as mayor of Belgrade, for which the length of work has been halved, stabilised public finances, the consolidation of public and public-community enterprises has been implemented and many significant and important projects launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37553	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37554	The esteemed chairman, respected Prime Minister of Finance's candidate, Belgrade Mayor, dear fellow MPs, will support the prime minister's proposal to elect Mr Sinisha Mali as finance minister. The position was announced yesterday by the head of the SPS parliamentary group and I now only confirm that. In his address yesterday, the head of the parliamentary group gave an opinion and an assessment of this current government and I can only join it, that in exactly the same way I speak and that I would not take the time, rewrite what Djordje Milicevic was saying and as mine. It's a government that has a clear policy, which defends it firmly and usually implements it. A government that also participates in the SPS, which shares the government's values and responsibilities in the work of the government in the goals it wants to achieve in the future, but also in the present Serbia. A government that has clear policies, foreign policy, results. Serbia today in foreign policy is not the object to be discussed, Serbia is today the subject to which it is discussed. The results visible also in internal policy, successes in, above all, financial consolidation, which provided Serbia with financial stability, which also meant creating conditions for faster, economic development, for investment, as a driver for employment development. Of course, as a result of all this, and as a socially responsible government invests in a better and more efficient social policy, i.e. a better life for citizens. What's important here is to say what's going on in order to get to the candidate. It came from these results that the government apparently has and that are inconclusive. I note that yesterday, the Prime Minister announced what was additionally offered to propose a candidate for the finance minister, which is what stands before the finance minister, to ensure financial stability in Serbia and always in mind, financial stability, creates conditions for faster development, economic development, that the more money purchases in the case of Serbia, of course on real and sustainable grounds, but also that the better it keeps them, invests in public works, in public investment in development, to spread out where you can spread that it does not endanger financial stability when it comes to taxes. I expect the finance minister to engage even more strongly in a fight that the government has already released, which is the fight against the gray economy, is it a huge space to increase the government's income. So the Prime Minister further explained what he had offered to propose such a candidate, a candidate who would continue the continuity of the government's successful work so far. I want to say here, when it comes to the proposal of the Minister of Finance's candidate, that you have proposed to the Prime Minister a man who will be able to provide what you are looking for as Prime Minister, that is, this government. It's about a man with knowledge and exceptional financial literacy. It's about a man with results. The results are important, everything else is a story. So I'm going to prove on two examples that you have absolutely the right to propose a candidate like this because of this goal that I spoke about earlier, which will ensure that financial stability continues, but also investment in economic development. I have the right and I want to testify about it because the SPS is a participant in Belgrade's government and I have had the opportunity to participate and see with my eyes what kind of man it is, what kind of energy, what knowledge, so to speak, the pathway of Belgrade's development. What's under one, the finance minister is the guardian of Serbia's cash register, and his first task is to preserve financial stability. What's the guarantee it's gonna be? The guarantee is the result that he achieved in Belgrade as mayor of Belgrade, and let's not think it's small, it's a two-million-dollar town, it's a city that provides more than 40% of Serbia's GDP. The results, and I'll just take the numbers out. The numbers are raw and they don't know how to fake, they say clearly. The debt of a billion and 118m euros is split. Fourteen billion dinars of outstanding liabilities have been paid off. The 20.25% budget deficit has been reduced four times. It's the first time I've ever won a credit rating. Consolidation of public and municipal enterprises, minus two billion to plus ten billion. I've listed only this few data and the point when it comes to having a basis when it comes to saying it's a man who's going to be able to continue this job as finance minister. Secondly, what I want to say is, and what characterizes this government, which is the creation of conditions and the fight for even better economic development, which will, of course, be the mission of the finance minister, but from what I would say, the domain, new investments, development, investment, construction, greater employment, and employment to Serbia today is the most important task standing before us. The results achieved in Belgrade, which led as mayor of Sinisha Mali, are also guaranteed for this task that he will know to do. All I'm gonna do again is raw numbers. Through the creation of an attractive investment environment and the promotion of direct investment, an investment cycle has been launched in Belgrade. Along with financial consolidation and taking care of Belgrade's financial stability. So, what's the score? Today, Belgrade is the largest investment destination in this part of Europe. Point, I don't want to count any further. What's further characteristic? For many years, factories have been shut down in Belgrade, and new factories are now opening up in Belgrade. "Meita" in Lazarevec was opened, about 1,000 workers, etc. Science and Technology Park - 560 workers. Preparations for a wastewater factory in Belgrade, in the 21st century, he didn't have. Furthermore, 37 new hotels, a million tourists in Belgrade as a result, 570 streets, 550km of asphalt, 250km of asphalt in suburban areas, i.e. remote areas, which confirms a policy led in Belgrade that Belgrade is not only "a circle of two", but everything, from Dudovica to the Padinska Skele and from Sopot to Batajnica. So these are all the results, not to go further, 113km of sewerage, 283km of water, 260km of hot water, and also to draw attention to the fact that the construction of the Obrenovac-Belgrade master's thermal power line is under way, which will use hot water from the "Nikola Tesla" power plant to heat Belgrade. Just to point out that this project has been done and almost done jobs, but by coming to the DOS, they say it's a relic of socialism, and it's all buried. Seventy-two thousand children in kindergartens, 14 thousand more, 40 reconstructed new health institutions, 14 thousand mothers who get added, and socially threatened with 25 thousand, clubs from the old and not counting any further. I'll go back to the beginning with one sentence. When it comes to financial stability, but only as a precondition for investment in development, what is the characteristic, what is the result of Belgrade today? Today is the city of cranes and cranes. There are a thousand and a hundred active construction sites in Belgrade. Here, I don't want to talk anymore. I've only listed a few data, a few figures, and the numbers say everything. They confirm that these results guarantee that they will be able to reflect it when it comes to Serbia. In the end, I want to say that, given what the Prime Minister has stated as expectations, given that it is a candidate who has knowledge, who has exceptional financial literacy, let's say, has gone unnoticed, much has been said about other things, you know what it means in the world today to have the authority of a financial analyst of the CVA American Institute? It's a huge thing. There are few in the world, very, very few in Serbia. I won't be long. So it's about knowledge, it's about results, most importantly, which confirm that your proposal, Prime Minister, is absolutely appropriate and will give results when it comes to further work by the government. Of course, we fully support the proposal to choose Sinisha Mali as finance minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37555	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37556	The chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Mali, so when you hear criticism from someone who is below 2% or 1%, and when these criticisms are not justified, when nothing concrete as a proposal comes, then it's a good thing that you may not even have a chance to speak today, someone would say unfortunately, at this session, because the very characteristic of a decent man is to keep quiet, not to look at it, to nod his head and say, okay, people have done their job for what you've been paid for, let's keep working for the citizens of Serbia, to reduce further public debt, to continue opening up factories, to continue to employ Serbia, to build on the roads, to make our airports better, to make our countries and finances increasingly stronger and more stable, and to continue. Continue to spit, continue to criticise, continue to touch our families and soon you will not be on the political scene, and the citizens of Serbia will be more and more satisfied, because they will have growth and wages and pensions this year, because they will have new cranes, new factories, new jobs, because our children will have a future, have reason to rejoice every year in which they will live in the Republic of Serbia. If you're the finance minister, remember, we worked together and in the city hall, I wish you all the best and a lot of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37557	Thank you. The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37558	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important task ahead of us, which is to elect a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I tried to make a parallel, to figure out what kind of ministry it's more important or more important than, but it's impossible to do that, because they're all equally important and important. However, the portfolio that is embedded in each individual is the Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry allows for the development, progress and financing of all segments of our society and is very responsible and difficult to be at the head of such a ministry, but not certainly difficult for someone who has fully dealt with all the problems that the City of Belgrade has faced. The candidate for the finance minister is Mr. Sinisha Mali, and since you're from the economic profession, like me, I've read your biography several times. I wouldn't dare to repeat all the references just so I wouldn't leave anyone out, but what made a strong impression on me is that you were teaching business finance. Every economist is aware of how important business finance is, that it is one engine, that what affects development, should be fully mastered, let alone lecture in college. However, in addition to this high level of education that adorns your biography, what is commendable is the results of your work. I am not from the birth of Belgrade, nor from the residence, but I am bound by my job to this city and I can safely say that in the last two, three years and how they see the new outlines of the City of Belgrade, from reconstruction and new kilometers of roads, the arrangements of boulevards, new facades, over 200 facades in this city, a fountain so disputed, "Beograd na Voda". In addition to new factories and open jobs that adorn our city, there really is no room for criticism. Speaking of these fountains, even if they weren't there, it wouldn't be good, because they wouldn't have anything to destroy. I'm sorry that some of the moves are desperate. However, when we talk about "Belgrade on Water", it is also a project. When I cross the Brankov bridge from New Belgrade, I am no longer welcomed by a part of the city that is by the river, but by a project worth 3.5 billion euros. It's for all praise. People go by there today, walk around, enjoy and record commercials, which I've been paying attention to has been done in the last period. Besides that, Mr. Mali, you're facing hard work and you're aware of that, because you'll be closely linked to public finances. It is such a field that concerns funding not only of the Republic, but of the AP, as well as of local self-government. What was very difficult was to reform public finances. It is today that we are harvesting the fruits of this reform. In one small part, we expect an even bigger part, and you will then lead that resort when our pensioners are allowed to increase their incomes. I must admit that when the finance minister comes to the National Assembly and defends the laws that will then be on the agenda, there will certainly be difficulties, but we will be with you because you have proved and assured us that you are doing everything consistently, honestly and in the right way, in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Mali, I wish you all professional success, personal happiness and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37559	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to select the Minister of Finance as soon as possible. The word is from a fellow MP, Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37560	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Madam Prime Minister, Mr. candidate for Finance Minister, Mrs. Brnabic yesterday at the beginning of your presentation, we had the opportunity to listen to what Sinisa Mali, the new candidate for Finance Minister, the fourth in a row, in the previous six years, and you chose that your arguments on why you think Sinisa Mali would be the best minister at the moment, try to present to the citizens of Serbia and the MPs some sort of report on what has been done in Belgrade, focusing solely on attacks on the former government in Belgrade and former Mayor Dragan Gilas, without even a single word on the financial policy of the government, without even a single word on the state in which the state is currently, without a single word on the plan and visions, which I completely understand. These are my colleagues and colleagues who had the opportunity to tell you during yesterday and today because it is quite clear and you know it and all citizens know very well that the finance minister, among other things, is President Vukic. President Vukic, who announced a few days ago, reiterates that a reduction in wages and pensions will be lifted, which he said only a few days ago, if that happens, that pensions and salaries will again be reduced. President Aleksandar Vukic, who accuses Serbian citizens of being lazy, unemployed and working, is President Aleksandar Vukic, who is the creator of a government policy whose fiscal consolidation has become an ideology that is more important than life, which is the kidnapping of honest pensions, the reduction of wages, the ideology that has no match on the one hand, and on the other hand, the haughtiness, subsidies to businesses, not a single word you said yesterday. So, and then the prime minister and yours, as you have said in your words, the political mentor, the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia, suggest Mr. Sinisha Malloy, former mayor of Belgrade as minister. The man who, that was my colleagues during yesterday talking about all the affairs, asphyxiated by the affairs. Which, I must remind you, these affairs await a court epilogue, which will happen eventually. These affairs do not expect the judgment of Alexander Vukic; for neither is he the owner of the truth, nor is he the Supreme Judge, nor do they expect your affairs, as you have said. I answered your affairs yesterday. No, it's not you, Madam Prime Minister, who's supposed to be responding to these affairs, it's the competent state authorities. I'm absolutely sure this will be the country where all the affairs in which the gentleman you're running for Finance Minister today are going to get a court epilogue. Yesterday you said we should talk about facts, that you don't like to talk politically and let's talk about a few facts. I'll only mention a few. Yesterday you spoke of "Er Serbia" and in an amazingly arrogant way you said that who is dragging Serbian citizens through the ears to fly and use the "Er Serbia" services? "Er Serbia" financed by Serbian citizens, "Er Serbia", which Serbian citizens finance and from which the same "Er Serbia" charges a bottle of water. Savamala, Mr. Sinisha Mali is unfortunately someone who has become a metaphor and a picture of the collapse of public interest, the destruction of the state, a man whose term of office took place by the Constitution, a man whose term of office he did not react to has never been ordered by a police not to respond to calls from his citizens to help. That's the man you're running for Minister of Finance today. This is the man the President of the Republic said he was one of the people who, I quote, the President of the Republic "complete idiots who are responsible for such a thing". I can, if nothing else, understand Mr. Vukic's proposal and your proposal, since you said Mr. Mali is your proposal, that by humiliating the citizens of Serbia, you actually think they're complete idiots. All of what's in the biography, all of what Sinisha Mali left as her results speaks of it. You are talking about public debt and, unfortunately, the former mayor has been celebrated for the fact that both the finance minister and the fiscal council are denying it, and if he retains his methodology by which he has calculated, then he must as his first step in the Serbian government say that he has found Serbia's budget before bankruptcy and that the debt of the Republic of Serbia is greater than 100% of GDP. So what is very important, and unfortunately we didn't know any of you at all to hear that in any democratic and orderly country, Sinisha Mali could not be proposed for any other public function. The man who is so burdened with affairs, and you are not the ones who will say: I have answered them; for this shall the authorities respond. No democratic state of man-muffled affairs could propose to perform any function. I don't know if you understand what responsibility means at all. Sinisha Mali, with affairs we can't count. Sinisha Little Man, who was responsible, who kept quiet when someone ordered the police not to react, with this proposal, if anything else, you mock the citizens of Serbia. You are announcing a new phase of the brutality of this government and, as my colleagues have said, in that sense, it is not very important who is specifically the finance minister, because instead of protecting the public interest and the interests of the citizens, he will have as a task, primarily only to protect the interests of one man, one party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37561	Thank you. Replica, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37562	When we talk about pensions, then we should say that twisting the truth is the most dangerous thing, especially when we're talking about addressing pensioners. What the Serbian government needs in due time to come up with a legal proposal is the abolition of the Pension Reduction Act, which was extorted four years ago, because we found an empty register and because only 15 days were left to pay off all financial contributions, and this is not a fictitious story of bankruptcy, but rather the reality that hit Serbia due to the DS government of four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37563	Thank you. Replica. Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37564	Here we hear from our colleague the accusation that in 2014, the Serbian government, the Republic of Serbia, was facing bankruptcy and is accusing the DS of it. In 2014, the government inherited the previous government, and you were the majority coalition partners in that government from 2012 to 2014. That was also said by Minister Vujovic several times that in 2014 the Ministry of Finance found itself bankrupt. We've heard that from the Prime Minister on several occasions in these exhibitions and it's really hard to accept that with this ease you're accusing the DS of 2014. You inherited a public debt of 15 billion euros in 2012 in July. And then you accused the state of bankruptcy thanks to the DS, and imagine, you're saying now it's in a healthy 24 billion-dollar economic situation. So in 2012, the state was bankrupt with 15 billion euros in public debt, and now, in your words, we are in a great economic situation with 24 billion euros. So nine billion euros in public debt. So it really doesn't make any sense, but it's very important what we've talked about several times, that contradiction in the calculation methodology of public debt. The key argument on which you insist and the proposal to choose Sinisha Malah as finance minister is that he consolidated Belgrade's debt and a permanent statement of 1.2 billion euros in public debt, which was denied by the former finance minister, who backed the Fiscal Council and confirmed their findings that the debt was 380m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37565	I thank you, MP. Replica Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37566	Why don't you tell me what we inherited from 2012? One hundred twenty-eight credit lines with a 1.4 billion-euro interest per year. Then, 750m euros a year for giving the company restructuring. Then, 20 billion dinars of debt from court rulings to the military pensioners your minister made. Then, the pension payments, 48% of the total fund, which today is 30%. So what you're saying is that the public debt was exclusively the one that was written, and everything else you were hiding from some secret donations, it just didn't go into public debt, and that's why you were showing a picture that was much nicer, but so much nicer that no one wanted to cooperate with you anymore, not to give you credit, not to support you, and the IMF didn't even want you to see it, because they just gave this picture. In public, Bloomberg made this very statement that I am talking about, and that is what Mr Vujovic said. Don't keep putting something in Mr Vujovic's mouth that he didn't say. It is not about the methodology of public debt, there has never been a conflict between Mr Vujovic, nor a statement by Sinisha Mali, but you want to constantly show the public that you are much better than there is, and that is why Serbian citizens must have defined themselves as SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37567	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37568	Thank you. This is really amazing. Amazing things I can hear here. One of the amazing things, and you'll remember, last night we were here arguing about you throwing it away and making it short. You're telling me today, without a word yesterday, about the plan and visions of the government and the Ministry of Finance. I will remind you, the plan was asked directly by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. When I was talking about the plan and the visions, the MP heard me because you were throwing me to cut short, that what I was saying was fun. We might as well ask the MP. So you absolutely didn't care, not the plan, not the vision I represented, you just wanted me to cut short. I was talking about three of the most important goals that the finance minister has in front of him, how those goals to achieve and you were in the O.R. I see you're surprised now. Are you telling me you didn't hear me talk about the plan and the visions? You didn't hear me talk about plans and visions? Okay. So it's amazing to tell someone who sat with you all day, ten hours yesterday, that I didn't say a single word about the plan and the visions. I talked about that plan and visions. I know what I was saying. You can take a stenogram and tell you about two key priorities and problems and challenges that the finance minister has, three goals that are most important and what we want to achieve by doing so. Okay, and it's a parliamentary debate. But fortunately, all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who followed the transmission yesterday, heard that I was talking about plans and visions. You're also telling me that I haven't talked about the results of the government, I've only talked about the results of Cynthia Little. It's amazing how much yesterday I've talked about the government's results, but thank you for the opportunity to mention once again the most important results since the beginning of this year. I can see that some people are already sick and tired of me talking about the government's results, I guess because I've mentioned them many times. But, you see, your fellow MPs tell me I haven't talked about the results of the government. So GDP growth of 4.5% in the first quarter, an inflow of foreign direct investment of 6.11.6m euros, also in the first quarter. This is by 4.7% more than in 2017, when we had two billion and 600m euros in foreign direct investment. Signed contracts with 24 companies for about 10,000 new jobs. Winning the economy, according to the Agency for Business Registers, not according to what the government says, 437 billion dinars, twice the result of 2016. Unchargeable loans, so-called. MPLs, finally single-digit, in March 9.2%. We have solved and continue to solve the problems of bankrupt companies. Successfully privatised Galenika for a total of 41m euros. IMT solved. At the International Agricultural Fair, we had finally re-presented the IMT tractor. By the end of the year, I expect to resume the production of tractors in the Republic of Serbia. Resolved ‘Magnophrom’. We are calling a tender for a strategic partner for RTB Bor. Budget on yesterday -- a surplus of 11.6 billion dinars, a planned deficit of around 38 billion dinars. Public debt below 60%, so 59.9%, below Mastricht level, thanks to Serbia being a stable country at the moment. In April, we finally released the work of the electronic judiciary to fight small corruption and make the judiciary more transparent in Serbia. Today, all citizens of Serbia can monitor the status of cases in all basic, higher and appeals courts online, via the internet. We link the justice databases to the state administration databases and local self-government to allow faster, easier and direct exchange of data between courts and state administrations. All the data we've placed on the Internet is also on the open data portal. The Open Data Portal, just to tell you, in terms of transparency and how criticised the government has never existed before. We are the ones who have published the portal of open data and are now publishing all sets of open data, to stimulate both transparency of government work and other state institutions and start a company app to find a solution to the problems that both government and public enterprises have. I can go on if you want. Also political, about Serbia's reputation in the world. You said I didn't tell you about the government results, so here's to your benefit, now I'm talking. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's visit, visiting Mr. Tajanin, European Parliament President Jean Claude Junker, President of the European Commission, visiting Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, visiting Charles Michel, Prime Minister of Belgium, visiting President Nikos Anastasiades, visiting the President of the European Investment Bank Dr. Werner Hoyer. Serbia's president visits Turkey, visits Russia. Joint meetings of the Government with Slovenia and Hungary. Announcing the EU Enlargement Strategy, identifying Serbia as the leader for the next EU member, etc. He doesn't hate me to repeat to you the government's greatest successes, once again, unless you've heard of it this time. You say of the affairs of Sinishi the Little; the authorities will react. I told you, in some of the alleged affairs, the authorities have already reacted. In some, of course, the authorities are just about to react. Then I ask you, if the authorities are just going to react, isn't it the postulate of every modern, civilized society that you're innocent until proven guilty? Your postulate, and therefore such an affair and insistence on it, is your postulate that Sinisha Mali is guilty until proven innocent. If we're talking about public debt and total debt, then it's unclear to me that you still can't understand that Sinisha Mali was talking about the total debt of the city of Belgrade. But what is it difficult for you to accept the total debt of the city of Belgrade? In Belgrade's public debt, one of the things that is not accounted for are these 448m dinars that Belgrade has paid for for 15,000 families due to a higher cost of kindergarten than the economic price. This was not calculated in public debt, but it is the total debt of the city of Belgrade, a debt that the city's administration had to repay, a debt which the next city administration, as our lawsuits arrive, will have to repay and which they have calculated to 20m euros, which someone must provide in the city's register to pay back. Well, that was one of the debts you don't count on. Sinisha Mali was counting and returning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37569	Thank you. The same exhibition was attended by two members of the DS parliamentary group. In my opinion, Maja Vidinović is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37570	The Prime Minister answered me directly, which I thank her for. I assume you're confused, not understanding who you're talking to, expecting me to step across the bench with you. When the President gives me his word, I will answer to you. You said, Madam Prime Minister, that you were answering the question of Ambassador Vukadinović, if I am not mistaken, you were able to talk about something, which you confirmed what I said, that in the proposal of Mr Sinisha Malo, about what I said you were not talking about, and you just confirmed it, that you only said that when you answered Mr Vukadinović, and all that I didn't mention to you. You talked about what you said, or not, that nobody asked you, but you didn't say a few very important things you said yesterday. I don't know what you mentioned, but I know that yesterday you said that no one is dragging Serbian citizens through the ears to fly and use the services of Er Serbia that they themselves finance, and that same Er Serbia is charging for a glass of water. You said yesterday and all day, and it's obviously your message boxing, or something that you came up with, and you have to talk no matter what it is or what the subject is, and that's muddying the former government in Belgrade, the former mayor and the people who worked responsibly. You said everyone said hello to the fallout in Savamala. You missed it to repeat yourself. You said Sinisha Mali did not buy those 24 apartments in Bulgaria, but was doing so by his company, not only did you deny Sinisha Mali but also the famous Bulgarian graphologist. You said that the tree is not the most expensive tree in Belgrade for the New Year, which is a symbol of the corruption and metaphor of the haughtiness of this government, because for God's sake there are private trees somewhere in Italy and Abu Dhabi, if I'm not mistaken. I welcome your knowledge of the prejudgment of innocence. I am very encouraged that someone in the government knows and respects that rule. I ask you to meet your ministers and the President of the Republic, but you must understand that there is a drastic difference between conjecture and innocence which is a postulate of absolute and elemental criteria of dignity for someone to be proposed and someone to perform a public function. That's two different things. I'm sure you can see the difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37571	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37572	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister Branabic, the respected future finance minister, Mr Sinisa Mali, fellow MPs, do not be surprised that some MPs here are pretending not to hear, but they only know that they are criticising for criticism, not because they have some adequate solutions and suggestions. We meet here every day in the congregation. So it's all rain on you. I want to say that, as you know, one of the most important ministries in the Serbian government is certainly the Ministry of Finance, because it should provide support for everything the SNS advocates: the development of local self-government, the fight against crime and corruption, the strengthening of the defence and justice system and other state systems in the country. We owe our gratitude to the previous minister Vujovic who proved to be a world expert, but also appreciated and recognized throughout the world. The Serbian Progressive Party has many experts, whether in its ranks or in support of it by their work and pawnage, because they recognise that this is the only way Serbia can go. Serbia has no alternative. For 2018 and 2019, an expenditure of 3.5% is foreseen, in 2020 4%, already in the first quarter of this year is projected. The main goal for the new finance minister is to reduce the debt and debt reduction below 60% of GDP per Mastricht. We expect global growth to be increased and focus on economic and fiscal policy. At the same time, the new minister has an easy and difficult task. It's easy because the government's cash register is in excellent condition, the surplus budget, six and a half billion dinars, a public debt in constant decline, and difficult in the work, as further implementation of structural reforms and resisting demands to increase current spending. Mr. Sinisa Mali is highly qualified as finance minister, because he has enough knowledge and experience in the field of finance and economy and I have no doubt that he will perform his function perfectly, as he has done so so far. Who is Mr. Sinisha Mali? You can read that from your biography and I won't talk about it, just a few, for me impressive details. He was a generation student at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, and also among ten students at the Master's Studies in America, in 2014 he won the "Most High-Level" Award for the development and reconstruction project of Belgrade, worked in the administration of several companies and banks, but what is most important Sinisa Mali proved to be the best mayor of Belgrade I remember. He was often compared to Branko Pesic, which is certainly an honor. He finished his term in 1974, and I don't remember that. Now in the 21st century, the mayor again appeared under whose leadership over a thousand construction sites were launched, the mayor who launched many magnificent projects. Belgrade has become a real metropolis, an attractive destination for many tourists in the last four years. Every day we witness that Belgrade is developing, editing and using its potential. The ugliest parts of the city were becoming the most beautiful. From the gray city of Belgrade, it became the same as its name - the white city. He revived Belgrade on the rivers. In order for all of this to be done, he had to deal first with the huge minus in the Belgrade cash register that Gilas left for us. In fact, in 2014, it was minus 1.2 billion euros, and now in 2018, the debt and budget deficit were cut four times. Public enterprises have reached a net profit of 10 billion dinars per minute. I don't want to lose energy, not yours, not mine, counting what it was like in 2014 when Sinisha Mali took office and what DOS's power has left us. We look to the future and SNS headed by Aleksandra Vukic is Serbia's future and Serbia is no longer a dormant country, but is being built here. Sinisha Mali has repeatedly pointed out that she is a team player and I am proud that she is on our team. As mayor of Belgrade or as finance minister, however, he is part of the winning team. Also, I want to thank him publicly, because as mayor of Belgrade, he was very helpful to the Mladenovs when he found it most difficult. In 2015, when I was vice president of the temporary body, we didn't know where to go, from the accumulated problems and debts that the DOS government also left us. Sinisa was the one who showed with his team that Mladenovac is not a suburban municipality, but an equal part of Belgrade and how home business can repay debts, but also advance and develop. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, Prime Minister Brnabic, for having, after our President Alexander Vukic, above all worth, responsible and visionary for Serbia's development, had the courage to replace him at the post of prime minister, to show that you are worthy of that position. It is also very brave, but in the opposite way, that Mr. Sinisa Mali accepted the Belgrade mayor's post after Dragan Gilas, who left the empty register, over-indebted Belgrade and left public enterprises in ruins. Sinisa Mali has proved that valuable and diligent work is all possible and that we are proud of our city today, at which speed Belgrade is developing, progresses in the right metropolis and also returns accumulated debts. I would end up with the saying of Benjamin Franklin: “Industry is the mother of happiness, because it is the only way to create a happy land and a happy people. ” The citizens also knew that in the republican, city, local elections, whom they would follow and that the SNS is their way into the future. Dear Sinisha, I wish you good luck in your new function, and I wish you every good thing both in person and professionally. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37573	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. You have four minutes and 15 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37574	Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will not join with congratulations and praises. Yesterday we had a chance to hear the presentations of the road of life and the results of the candidate for the finance minister. I'd like to remind you that in one historic, heroic time 100 years ago, a man set the standard of what it means to be a good finance minister. It was Dr. Lazar Patch. He wasn't an expert in finance, he wasn't an economist, he was a doctor, but he was in the people, among the citizens and among his fellow ministers known, recognized and recognized as an incredibly honest and incredibly thriftful man who didn't give either to the king or to the Prime Minister, or to anyone involved in the question of state money and the state cash. They would say, whoever believes in progress has reason to doubt. We heard yesterday about all the reasons and arguments why Mr. Sinisha Mali should become Minister of Finance. I'm much more interested in those other reasons that talk about why Mr. Sinisha Malin should and should not become Minister of Finance. Those are all those questions my colleagues were talking about yesterday. Of course, there is one issue that comes out of our eyes most because of the question of the functioning of the rule of law and the rule of law in one state. And that's what interests us most. There is something about Mr. Sinishi Mali's behaviour and political performance, which, unfortunately, is contrary to the obvious qualifications that we do not dispute, and I can congratulate him on everything that he has done in his biography down, but there is something in his work, his doing that makes him a politician contaminated, which his own party itself cannot actually cancel, which it has shown in the last Belgrade elections itself, when you have such a successful mayor, there is a political rule that this man is running a list and that he is the holder of the credibility of a party in the capital. So it's some rule of every political behavior. I would like to remind you, when we compare this to the statements of Alexander Vukic from the time he commented on the rule of law crisis in Savamala, when he said that the position of Sinishi Mali is actually hard to sustain in the long term. So, Mr. Sinisha Mali, if elected, and he will be elected as finance minister, will be able to manage our money and money for Serbian citizens. What is very insulting to me, and I think that one question, after all, is what I need here to discuss, too, but the issue for both the public and all those who deal with the flows of political and economic life in Serbia -- who it really represents, given that it has never participated in the elections, has never been chosen, directly or indirectly, and on the other hand we see that there are obviously some skills that make it very successful from one government to another survive, from one government to another. So the real question is -- how does that work for him? What is very insulting to me is that we are witnessing that Aleksandar Vukic knows very well that he is both in charge of both his popularity and his popularity and the popularity of the SNS. So, it's up to me how Mr. Vukic in this situation doesn't see that he's proposing, we all know that Sinisha Mali is his proposal, how he can't see that this impaired credibility is something that will eventually come back to him as some damage. As citizens of Serbia and as MPs, we must be interested -- what is it that you are all prepared to do at the expense of the rule of law and the violation of the rights of Serbian citizens in order to protect here what is the predatory neoliberal capitalism that brings citizens of Serbia into an unending economic situation? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37575	Thank you. Replica. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37576	In your personal insults to Mayor Sinisha Mali, you have failed to defuse the SNS of such a man with such a biography, with such experience we propose to the Minister of Finance. You may not have heard the argument, but if we had put Sinisha Malia on the list first for Belgrade, we would have disaved the citizens of Belgrade, because we had prepared him for the finance minister or for some stronger function and it would not be good to put someone on the list and lie to the citizens that he would serve as mayor. Therefore, we are not ashamed of our staff, as you are ashamed of yourselves, and you do not know who your party president is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37577	The word is Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37578	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the respected Prime Minister, despite often neglecting the fact that Serbia was ahead of bankruptcy, this does not change the financial situation at the time, and today it has proved to be the decision of then-Prime Minister Vukic to proceed with reforms that was the best even the most difficult decision. In a relatively short time, we achieved envious results thanks to discipline in financial management. Today in the first quarter we have a surplus of the republican budget of 6.5 billion dinars, and this is the third year in a row that we have a surplus in the budget. Incomes of 266,7 billion were charged, while expenditures amounted to 266,3 billion dinars. Growth in the first quarter of this year is 4.5%. Mr. Mecalastar congratulated Serbia on good economic results and says so much, and Serbia will continue to be a regional leader. What is also looking forward to is data on the share of the IT sector in exports that is greater than 9.2%. This proves how right you, Prime Minister, were when you pointed out the importance of this sector at the beginning of your term of office, and I congratulate you on that. In the last quarter of 2017, the amount was more than doubled compared to the level from the pre-crisis period and is the bearer of economic growth. What has contributed to a significant growth in exports and growth in the volume of external trade exchanges is, above all, an improvement in the competitive position of the economy and a stable increase in the inflow of direct investments, primarily in export-oriented companies. The total export value of 15 biggest exporters in the first quarter of this year was 1.1 billion euros. The total foreign trade exchange of Serbia in the first two months of this year was 5.5 billion euros. NBS foreign reserves have also been increased. For the first time since 2005, both indicators of fiscal position have been positive. In particular, it can be concluded that our finances have recovered from our decision to increase pensions. Thank you to all those who have believed in our reforms because this has contributed to Serbia's progress today. The increase in pensions between 8.4 and 13.3% compared to pensions in 2014 clearly states that the worst is over, that we are no longer in danger of bankruptcy, but it is important that we continue to be rational and responsible for spending, as we have been so far. None of us in the SNS doubt that all these indicators will be getting better, that Serbia will continue to develop evenly. Eastern Serbia, where I come from, is waiting for a developmental opportunity, and with those of you, Prime Minister, with the President of the Republic, and with the great cooperation you have, our development opportunity can be realized. As for the candidate for the finance minister, Mr. Cynthia Malloy, we know the results of his work. We MPs expect good co-operation with him, as well as with other ministers in the government. We will support this decision. He's got hard work ahead of him. I wish him a lot of success in his work, and I congratulate you, President, on his commitment, combatability, courage and hard work and entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37579	Thank you. Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37580	Ladies and gentlemen, one fact is irrefutable, the exact fact that this is the fourth minister in six years. It would not be worse to remind ourselves that the continuance with previous powers was maintained by a finance minister named Mladjan Dinkic, he continues to be called, followed by fake Emperor Scepan Mali in the image of Lazar Krstic. Then the minister was transferred to the finance ministry. Remember, Minister Vujovic was a military minister, and then came to take over the finance ministry. Before that, he was Minister of Industry, which is very indicative. It is rare that such a universal expert is suddenly presupposed to run finances, unless there is some logistics that requires it, or which gives him specific support. What's interesting? Interestingly, the whole of Serbia or Serbia's majority knows exactly about criminal activities, a greater number of Mladjan Dinkic's criminal activities. What's going on? Simply, those who need to punish it, to sanction it, they forgot about Mladjan Dinkic. Just remember, it didn't start in 2014, with this continuum furniture, it started much earlier, when the current president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic held a prison uniform with the number of prisoners for Mladjan Dinkic and claimed, guaranteed that the moment the change in Serbia took place, though, the truth works, we have to be completely accurate, then it was a Serbian radical, the first thing he would do is that Dinkic would go to jail for his criminal activities. What happened? Nothing, there he is today on the loose, walking man, providing consulting services, has these pythmies that serve him as tentacles who are still present in the government in one way or another, running very important resources, such as infrastructure, such as traffic, etc. And to a man, as you might say, there's no hair missing from his head. We understand that it was, in one part, political marketing, but we have another situation. We have Minister Vujovic, who resigns, for the public is this - personal reasons, because in public, there is an informal spread of the story that he is a sick man and because of this disease he must withdraw. It's such a pathetic story all of Serbia believed in. Let's see what this man's been doing in the past, he's been credited with some superhuman abilities. What did the man do? He dragged his hands into the pensioner's pockets, pulled the money out of their pocket, and then, according to those old, stale thieving manners, he honored the same pensioners with their money. He does not pay them back their wallet, and honors them with their money and says he has contributed to Serbia's financial stability. Well, that's what the IMF insisted, don't forget, only it was delayed because at the time, Prime Minister Vukic was reluctant to seem to oppose or conflict with pensioners who, as a rule, are always the most vulnerable category of the population, but the IMF is the most responsible organization for their clientele that has entrusted money to someone. In this case, the World Bank, the European Development Bank, in most parts of the Republic of Serbia and the IMF are only trying to keep the Republic of Serbia financially on the surface, to be able to settle its obligations, to settle its debts and no longer take any interest in them. If the pensioners will be happy, they don't care. Will it be accepted by someone who's in charge, and they don't care about that either, because they have a mechanism to force him to. We are present today at the fourth-in-a-row election of the finance minister, and we haven't heard a single word about what it will do in the future when the new minister arrives that eventually changes. We have not heard whether customs will change, whether the state of Serbia will continue to be with the lowest customs, minority, worldwide, whether we will continue to explain to the peasants that their goods are not competitive, because the world market is satisfied, and that we continue to explain that cheap agricultural products need to be imported. That story's got nothing to do with it. We haven't heard what happens to excises, whether or not electricity excises will still be one of the essential elements of how the budget is filled. We haven't heard what's going to happen to the tax rate. We heard about it the other day, the Minister of Infrastructure came out here and said that it was won when you're free to share land, when the state gives for nothing, that it's in that, in return for taxes. Great, here's the idea we're running for the Nobel Prize. I'm not exaggerating when I say the Nobel Prize, because it's best to give away the largest number of investors for free, so those who buy from these investors through taxes will pay that money back. A brilliant idea, but it can do anything in Serbia. We still don't know what will happen to taxes, we don't know if the new minister or government, under the allegations, will propose in the new composition an amendment to this Public Procurement Act, is the most generous solution you have proposed and which is in circulation in this Serbia. You've gone so far that you've made all the criminal acts through a law called the Public Procurement Act. The law on public procurement describes the details of the already pre-typed supplier or contractor, already in advance. Report one under the Public Procurement Act, no need, one is enough. Then we wonder how the others don't answer. What is directly related to the new minister, how will the new minister behave and what will he do in the future where it is inevitable that more important roles in the fight against terrorism and money laundering of the Ministry of Finance, besides the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, other services such as BIA and Intelligence, the Ministry of Finance, how will the Ministry of Finance and how will it participate in preventing money laundering? You know, we can talk about praises here, we can even criticize, but when you come among international representatives, then you have to be aware that they have literally all the information about you. They have x-rays of every single person. It's not very pleasant when you're sitting on the opposite side of people who know you're involved in some possible criminal activity, it's not at all convenient. When you represent a country that's on the list of rare numbers of countries where it's more than percentage money laundering, then you still have to be more prepared. As far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, there must be no compromise. He must fight crime without compromise. How will the Ministry of Finance react to the criminal acts that take place in certain ministries in the government, which shake the public, such as the Ministry of Health, such as the Ministry of Sports, such as many other ministries that we don't know about? Will the minister have enough authority or government authority to distract these ministers? That is why the SRS has insisted that you reshuffle the government since you decided to replace the finance minister and, of course, repeat what is known, the SRS will be against the election of the finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37581	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandra Tomic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37582	Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. In the presentation of the previous speaker, we have seen, in the above series of insults concerning Minister Vujovic, and for the sake of the public, we must say that what is stated is completely untrue. First, the finance minister was elected on 4 August 2014. He has been in office since the following day, on August 5th, and he also served as Minister of Industry on January 30th 2016, when the change practically took place as defence minister, then, in a period less than a month, he served as defence minister. Therefore, please, the chairman, if there is a possibility that when certain falses are presented, the speaker will be distracted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37583	Thank you. Thank you for your help – no. Thank you. The word is Dragan Veljkovic. What do you say? (Alexander Martinovic: Replica. The president of the party is mentioned. All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37584	I apologize to my colleague Veljkovic. So Mr. Mircic mentioned Alexander Vukic and Mladjan Dinkic, bringing them into a relationship. He was also talking about other topics, so I'm going to briefly try to look back at these two minutes. Mr Mircicu, Mladjan Dinkic has ruled out Alexander Vukic from the Serbian government, not you from the SRS. As for political consistency, you are a living witness that in 1995 every SRS MP had to go out five times for a pay phone and repeat that Slobodan Milosevic was the biggest traitor and criminal in the history of the Serbian people, and three years later you became minister in his government. As for maintenance, you say, in Serbia's life by the International Monetary Fund, it's a complete lie. Don't bring us IMF foreign investors. The IMF did not reduce the unemployment rate from 26% to 12%. It is not the IMF that caused the growth rate of the Serbian economy to rise at a minus 3.1 or 3.6 in 2008 and 2009 to be almost 3% now. That is exactly what Aleksandar Vukic and his government did, and with this policy the government of Ms. Ana Brnabic continued. You're saying the same thing the MPs of the Democratic Party say, and you're misleading the public that the Republic of Serbia is on some kind of blacklist...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37585	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37586	So it's on some kind of blacklist, which is absolutely not true, and that's what the Prime Minister has told you many times.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37587	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37588	Mr. Martinovicu, firstly, liquidity is not only seen by investors who are half-product or finished product exporting and selling as their own. That money is mostly poured into their register. Serbia, meanwhile, is in charge of more than five billion euros, so there is the role of the IMF, but some other time we will talk about it, it is not a problem at all, nor is it difficult for me. As for Mladjan Dinkic, Vukic said that, I am telling you again, as a member of the Serbian Radical Party. As president of the Serbian Progressive Party, Dinkic hired as the main man for co-ordinator with the Arab Emirates. Where is there any antagonism or possible attempt to examine the role or all that Dinkic did, when he had already kicked him out of the government, because he didn't have enough votes? As for this person, Mr Martinovic, it is true, I spoke to Slobodan Milosevic and his wife, when they were at the height of their power, when others were courting them, I spoke frankly what I thought, thinking of Serbia's interests and thus revealing Slobodan Milosevic. Many here who are now advertised were smaller than mac's grains, so they told me it wasn't good for me to do it for me, for my children and for my safety. You should be brave when a man is at the height of power, when he's strong, not after that. I was a minister in the government because the SRS made a decision, on the one hand there was DOS scum, and on the other hand it was Serbia's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37589	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37590	And Maja Gojkovic was the minister with me, and Aleksandar Vukic along with me, but that's the decision of the SRS and we don't regret it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37591	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word is Dragan Veljkovic, the Serbian Progressive Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37592	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, regardless of criticism, allow me at first to express my gratitude and stress the important role of Minister Dusan Vujovic in the results he achieved along with the previous and current government in the area of macroeconomic stabilisation, financial consolidation and structural reforms. During yesterday, and today, we have heard many unfounded, flat-rate, arbitrary findings and claims based on unrealistic facts. In that sense, I want to point out an old Latin saying that reads – that the mihi factum dabo tibi yus, give me the facts to give you the right. In the sphere of economic policy, too, real facts need to be pointed out in order to draw true conclusions from this. I'll try some of them to point out. After more than a decade, a government budget surplus of 1.2% of GDP was recorded in 2017, and this trend continued at the beginning of 2018, with 6.5 billion dinars in the first quarter. The level of public debt is also steadily decreasing, in 2017 it fell by more than 10% of GDP, and after the first quarter of 2018 it is 59%, which is below the Mastricht level. Good assessments and positive criticisms of relevant international financial organisations such as the IMF and the World Bank have raised the trust of domestic and foreign investors, as Serbia's risk premium has fallen to the lowest level and has conditioned more than 2.5 billion foreign direct investments in 2017, and such a trend continues in 2018, making us a regional leader in this parameter. Countries in transition, like ours, are characterized by a lack of capital, which is now considered the basic generator of economic prosperity. Therefore, foreign direct investment, unlike loan capital, does not require the return of principals and interest and contributes to the stabilisation of inflation, GDP growth and the improvement of the balance of payments. The calculation and collection of taxes and contributions to the earnings of newly employed workers generates a better inflow into health and pension funds, as well as the budgets of local self-government. It should also be pointed out that Serbia has progressed by 12 places by 2017's Global Competitiveness Index, published by the World Economic Forum, and is 78 of the 137 countries. According to the inflation criteria, Serbia, according to a report from the same institution, takes the first position, shared with 35 other countries. Due to low inflationary pressures, the reference interest rate has been reduced multiple times and is now 3%. The stability of the banking sector in Serbia has been preserved and further strengthened. Thanks to measures by the National Bank of Serbia, the share of problematic loans in the total loan has seen a sharp drop to 9.2% in March 2018, the lowest level since 2008. The unemployment rate has been reduced multiplely and is now around 12%, with a trend of further decline, while the employment rate is increasing. The net foreign reserves have crossed nine billion euros, representing their highest level since 2000. A slightly worse situation in terms of economic growth in 2017 is due to the decline of production in energy and agriculture at the beginning of the year due to poor weather conditions, but they do not have recession elements and do not jeopardise the basic trend of development, which is the best way to confirm the results in the first quarter of 2018, which is 4.5% compared to the same period of the previous year. Also, in the first quarter of 2018, industrial production was compared to the same period in 2017, higher by 5.5% and the external trade ratio was 8.8 billion euros, which is 10.7% more than in the same period in 2017. All of these results provide a good basis for speeding up growth in the next period, i.e. to further improve the economic environment and ensure high levels of economic growth, with the ultimate goal of reducing unemployment and raising the living standard population. The main obligation of the new minister, as well as the entire government, will be to achieve the fiscal policy objectives set out in the 2018 fiscal strategy, with projections for 2019 and 2020, which are primarily aimed at maintaining fiscal stability. Also, thanks to financial consolidation measures, a fiscal space has been created to increase capital investment, raise pensions and wages in the public sector and reduce tax burdens on earnings. These measures are so designed not to endanger the stability of public finances and the trend of public debt cuts, and on the other hand to raise the standard of living, stimulate private consumption and accelerate economic development. Of course, in realising the objectives set, there are always fiscal risks that represent public finances exposure to certain circumstances that can cause short- and medium-term deviations from the projected fiscal framework. Therefore, the identification of the highest fiscal risks that can affect state finances is a starting point in better fiscal risk management. On this occasion, I will point to some of the potential risks such as the decline in economic activity or the lower growth that has led to a significant reduction in the inflow of capital and the reduction of external trade conditions, inflation as the basic founder of macroeconomic stability, exchange rate and interest rates on the international and domestic market, guarantees issued by states affecting the level of public debt and the level of the deficit if credit is paid, instead of the original debtor taking over the state, taking over the liabilities of state and public enterprises, the business of public enterprises, the payment of profits by public enterprises and the dividends of the company of capital in which the state has ownership and represent a significant part of non-tax revenue. Finally, I would like to point out that I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the new minister will have adequate answers to all potential fiscal risks, that in this context, with their years of practical experience and affirmative results achieved in Belgrade, above all, in the part of reducing the budget deficit, the consolidation of public enterprises, the realisation of investment projects, will make their full contribution to the realisation of the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore SNS MPs will give full support to the Prime Minister's proposal, which will confirm in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37593	The word is Jelena Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37594	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mali and the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out at the very beginning that I will support the Prime Minister's proposal that the new Minister of Finance of the Republic of Serbia be Sinisha Mali in the day to vote. I think he has shown by his work and his results that he can, well, not give up and that he is willing to take responsibility for the management of finance, not only the city of Belgrade, but also the whole of Serbia. It has been four years since the SNS took over in Belgrade. At that time, both the parties and the citizens of Belgrade had the confidence to take care of the capital just got Sinisha Mali. We know the situation in Belgrade by 2014, but for the sake of good information, it is important to repeat it. The debt of a billion and 118m euros, unpaid liabilities of 14 billion dinars, a budget deficit of 20.25%, without a job there were 110,000 people in kindergartens were only 47.5 thousand children, for which parents had to single out a third of their salaries. Public enterprises were on the verge of collapse. Only the public utility "Belgrade Road" eventually lost over a billion dinars in 2013. It was not invested in infrastructure, suburban settlements were neglected. I really don't think there's a scale of importance if we compare central Belgrade municipalities and suburban settlements, each municipality has its priorities, its problems. The problems of suburban areas may be more difficult because they are more infrastructure-efficient. It wasn't invested in sewers, water nets, asphalting. I would like to say that at that time investments were rerouted to downtown Belgrade, however, they did not. They were rerouted exclusively into some of their own pockets of people who ran the city at the time. It has been four years and the public has had the opportunity, the Belgrade citizens have had the opportunity to see the difference in the treatment of institutions, culture, heritage, the difference between people and their problems. It's not easy to compete. It is not easy to run a race with a burden of inherited debts and obligations on the shoulders, start from the last position and win, because Belgrade has won. The debt of the city has been halved, all commitments have been paid, the budget deficit has been reduced almost four times. The consolidation of public and public-communal enterprises was carried out, in the first three years, between minus and two billion dinars, public and municipal enterprises came to a profit of 10 billion. More than 113km of sewerage network, 283km of water network, 260km of heat lines were built, works were carried out in more than 750 streets. The first time was paved is 120 kilometers of traffic. More than 200 facades were restaurantd in downtown Belgrade, decorated more than 200 green areas, 42 sports courts and more than 70 children's playgrounds. Unemployment, for the first time in 10 years, fell below 90 grand. In collaboration with private kindergartens and the construction of new national kindergartens, another 25,000 new places have been opened for our young people, and the price of kindergartens has been halved. Belgrade, too, today is the only city in Serbia that has allowed parents to apply for all local donations as part of an electronic e-baby service, as well as to enroll their baby in the birth certificate, without going to the home service. The families were also provided with one-time cash aid of 10,000 dinars for each newborn, while an additional 25,000 dinars were allocated for socially endangered maternity care. That's exactly the difference I was thinking about at the beginning of my presentation, the difference in how and how seriously we take the problems of society and our citizens, because the problem of birth is not easy to solve, but the difference between you giving help to 3,500 mothers, as it was while some others were running the city, and now that the aid is receiving more than 14,000 mothers, that's the difference. I cannot mention the importance of major investment projects launched by the construction industry and other industries, Belgrade today is the centre of economic developments and the largest construction site in the Balkans. We have more than 1,000 active sites, and the largest among them is definitely "Belgrade on Water". It extends to over 100 hectares of Sava coast in downtown Belgrade. An investment worth 3.5 billion euros will contribute to making Belgrade a real tourism and business centre of the Balkans. Also, I have to mention other not less important projects that have been implemented or are in the realization phase, such as "Ikea", "Hilton", "Meita", then the railway station "Prokop", solving the decades-old problem of the dump in Vinca, the water factory "Makis 2", as well as the rain collector "Zemun Polje – Dunav". As I come from Palilula, the territory of Belgrade's largest municipality, in my opinion the most beautiful municipality, which has all the features of Serbia in small, I only wanted to point out in a few sentences what was in my municipality, among other things, done. The Tasmajdan Sports Centre was renovated, streets were reconstructed among which Rusveltova and Duke Mick were very important, a kindergarten opened in Ovca, a reconstructed library, an open living room for children distracted in development, a project to build a sewage network was launched. The project currently being implemented, a major project, is the Palilu market that will have 12,691 square meters of space and will represent one of the most modern markets in Europe. It is built according to new urban parameters that will give this market an attractive appearance and maximum functionality. The drinks will spread to four levels, two of which are scheduled for garages, which is otherwise a major problem in Belgrade, especially in the centre, and two levels for market and catering services. That means, we edit the space we live in, we edit the space we work in, we open up new jobs. Dear Mr. Mali, you have not been able to speak to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, there will only be opportunities when you officially assume the office of Finance Minister. I'd like to use just a few more minutes of your attention and quote you right now. "It is a great honor to be mayor of this city. I always thought it was more important for a good mayor to love his city and to do what his fellow citizens wanted than to do politics. Politics was never my goal, nor my means of achieving goals. My goal was to make Belgrade a city with the help of all Belgrade citizens, not a tycoon measure, as it was in the previous period. That's how we've been leading Belgrade for the past four years. We worked for the people of Belgrade, according to the wishes of the people of Belgrade and for the benefit of the people of Belgrade. “ Indeed it is. Belgrade today is the city of all Belgraders. I know that you from the Minister of Finance will manage to maintain financial discipline, that you will do everything to maintain the current state of the budget, that you will work responsibly, responsibly, as the previous government led by Aleksandra Vukić started, and this government led by Ana Brnabic and continued. And you, Mr. Mali, as finance minister and as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will have the full support of SNS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37595	The word is Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37596	Yesterday and today, we had the opportunity to hear from the proponents of the biography of the future finance minister, because for that you have an absolute majority, but also from representatives of the MPs of the regime according to the praises, the results, and I have to admit yesterday and today it was in fact the same text only the MPs who read changed. What steamed ears is the fact that when it was said to be the mayor of Sinisa Mali and SNS, all the promises they made to the citizens of Belgrade were fulfilled. For the sake of the public, I have to remind myself that this is about complete untrueness and quote, for example, just one of the SNS announcements before the 2012 city elections. At that time, Nebojsa Stefanovic led the campaign and held a press conference in front of the City Assembly, and it was a real serious problem, because your predecessors, I must admit, were really much worse and left a catastrophic situation in the city and then I quote, advocated and said the following – the introduction of a bus plus a ticket collection system in Belgrade's city transport system is a humiliation and withdrawal of money from Belgrade's citizens. The Belgrade-based SNS board has accused the current Belgrade authorities of seizing money from citizens by introducing a bus plus a card collection system and finding – the city's power of DS, G17 plus, once again in the pocket of citizens by introducing a new payment system. This time, the bill is made by a private company whose real owner is unknown, controlled by DS officials and Dragan Gilas. According to a statement, the citizen's money will enter the hands of a private company that was created only to carry out the work, and then Nebojsa Stefanovic continues – during the authorities of Dragan Djilas and Mladjan Dinkic, the price of the ticket for transport has been increased 100%, but Belgrade's Belgrade traffic services have not been improved on February 1st, 2012. What is the billing system in Belgrade today? The same bus plus, and now whose pockets are that money going in? Why didn't you break the contract? Why, after so many years, exactly six years ago, even an excuse, it's a huge penalty, it can't go away, if that's the state's interest it needs to be solved for the company to be liquid. Is it SNS today, GSP liquid? No, it's not. Is there a sufficient number of vehicles? There isn't. What is the average age of those vehicles? Older than me and you together. What happens every day when you travel in city traffic? Wherever you go, in whatever part of Belgrade you go, every morning or afternoon you will see either a tram that is broken, or a trolleybus, or a bus standing still and creating big crowds. Did you solve that problem? No, you're not. You've continued the politics of Dragan Gilas. That this is the information that was true about the bus plus we completely agree, but a new nonsensus is being created, which is that just after coming to power in 2012, you took over the staff of DS, just not Dragan Gilasa. The same ones that were senior members in front of G17 plus and DS. The same ones that were the directors of the parking service, the GSP and the others. Who's your parking service manager today? Well, the same former member of Mladjan Dinkic, who was then in power and many other members of the council who were also in the office of the late Mayor Bogdanovic, and after that, Gilas and are now with you, and you continue the exact same policy. Whose projects were from Slavija, and beyond, which you, like us, criticized, the Square of Slavia and the rest. Well, DS because it's a waste of money, money spent, and it was all done during the mayoral's term and now candidate for minister. How many real infrastructure problems have been solved? Well, it's not. Here, I'll remind you that the love between you and Gilas still exists after those choices when you took over. Dragan Gilas became president of the basketball union of Serbia during your power, and when you opened Pupin's bridge, the shoulder to the shoulder of Dragan Gilas and Vukic went together, shook hands, photographed, talked to the Ambassador of China and everything else. You promised, as you promised to arrest Mladjan Dinkic, you promised to have enough evidence to arrest Dragan Gilas. Why didn't you arrest him? Or it's Wednesday that it's good to have a so-called. The opposition you hold in your hand and the papers in your drawer, and then he leaves the session of the City Assembly, and you continue to do whatever you want. And, you've been campaigning for 30 days, all the time, criticizing, ugly words, but the spitter with Dragan Gilas is the other way around. You raised each other's ratings. And you never went out with a candidate, either 2012, or 2014, or 2018. You didn't say what you were going to do, nor did you say then that after a truly protagonist policy, the great protagonist dosa, here in the Assembly from 2008 to 2012, I was talking about the head of the DS Parliament Group, Jelena Trivan, then you imported her and gave her the directorial post, and then you took Goran Vesić and many others. Then you get up and you turn to this right-hand side, which I agree was absolutely bad, not just bad rule in Belgrade, these are the people who arrested Serbian heroes and what they didn't do. But you took the same thieves with you and now they work for you and talk about the results. On the other hand, you're talking about fighting corruption. Well, what about those hundred billion you promised a year to save from public procurement. Alexander Vukic himself made that statement. Four years, four billion. Where's that money? What halved minus? Where did you save that? Well, that's the basis for corruption. Where are those promises you made now? What about the Quick Answers Office? What about the Secretariat for Legalisation and Legalisation of this number of still illegal objects where only one secretariat for the entire city works? Full centralization. Is that what you've been fighting for? Did you promise that then? No, you promised the contrary, that you would return jurisdiction to the municipalities and in 2012, which Dragan Gilas began to moan. And you've done everything completely different. We now need to believe that the man who accepted this concept of politics, imported his personnel from DS, G17+, and some other marginal parties, whose policy was until 2012 the destruction of the city of Belgrade, to convince us that we should believe that he has changed now and will work in the citizens' interest. That's certainly not going to happen, and we're not going to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37597	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37598	Thank you. Just a few things. First of all, it's about breaking up the bus plus contract. We didn't want to break the contract with the bus plus, although he certainly had to and could have been much better because it would have pulled two big conconsequences with him. One is a huge compensation that was not paid back then to the city of Belgrade, for which the city of Belgrade had no money because of the state of the budget. Secondly, whatever contracts you sign before you, you must, at the end of the day, and the rule of law and predictability of business, if they are in accordance with the law, respect them. So they asked us to break the contract with the "Fiitata" because it is not in the best interest of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the bus plus. I'm telling you, if each of those broken contracts meant to investors that whatever government comes to the bar or the republic, they could break their contracts any way they want and like it or don't like it. So we wouldn't have any more domestic or foreign investors in Serbia. So at that point, it is certainly better for both the local and the Serbian image to wait until the contract, while the contract is valid. As for new bus lines and new buses. You, of course, know that a new ten bus lines have been introduced and that Belgrade has received the new 107 buses including the first electric buses. So it's not true that nothing has changed and has not invested in a new fleet. As far as the projects are concerned, I think it is absolutely unnecessary to explain again after now for a day and a half why the city's power in the mandate of Cynthia Malogi did not continue the city government's policy in the term of Dragan Gilas, because if it were, then only today would the debt be much larger, we would have a blockade of public enterprises, we would still have a budget deficit of over 20% or more, but today Belgrade is not such a city anymore. Today, Belgrade, as I said, is a stable, perspective local self-government that has, 40% of Serbia's GDP comes from Belgrade and I believe it will continue in the mandate of the next city government. As to whether the city's power in the mandate of Sinishi Mali implemented some of the projects that were announced by then Mayor Dragan Gilas and those authorities, well, yes. We never said that all the projects they bombed were bad. They just had no knowledge, no desire to carry them out. So, in any case, they are, all of these projects, in favour of the citizens of Belgrade, so it is good in that sense and that they have been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37599	Alexandra Tomic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37600	When we talk about political consistency, it would be fair here if Mr. previous speaker told us which member of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board in the City Assembly was during Dragan Gilas. Because attacking the Serbian Progressive Party to implement Gilas's policy by someone who is a member of the same government at the time shows that he supported Dragan Gilas's policies. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party at the time supported the policies of Dragan Gilas and the Democratic Party, and that is to say. If the SNS has declared that it is against this policy, then it has consistently implemented that policy by the team led by Sinisha Mali Mayor. Why does it bother you that we never have one candidate for mayor? When there are elections for one person, for one person, then we will give our candidate. As long as this electoral system is on the political stage, when it comes to local elections, elections for the City of Belgrade, by then we will always present our team, capable people who can implement the party's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37601	Thank you. I'm just asking you not to log out, because I never know what your intention is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37602	I am very glad that the prime minister has now shown that Nebojsa Stefanovic and SNS have deceived citizens with promises, and then you knew what contracts they were. I was quoting SNS promises. So that's how you deceived the citizens, got the votes, because you said you'd do something and do it. You haven't done, even, contrary, you've kept working. As for the projects, I spoke again about the projects that the SNS at the time, as just established, criticised the City of Belgrade for both Slavia and everything else, and then you did it again and spoke here in public as something that was best. As for the third, I was a member of JP Management Board “Studio B”, which is also in my biography. We had the right as an opposition to one member, and I represented the interests of the company and was someone who was a negotiator between employees and the city, because they were very difficult conditions. And right now, when we were members of these boards of directors and supervisors, we pulled out these data and we wouldn't even know how badly it was done in that public enterprise, but as in the GSP, where you didn't do anything again. I'm telling you now that this public enterprise is not liquid. You keep saying you've raised public enterprises. That's not true. You're talking about 107 buses. You drive, like me, by city transport, I drive by city transport every day, so you'll see what shape buses and trams are in and everything else. Even the mayor, when he went with the television "First", could see it, when he went over Brank's bridge, two buses stand broken. And every day it's broken buses. It's the right condition. What's going on? In the morning, 700 buses come out, five minutes a lap, and they come back, and then it's 200. Don't deceive the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37603	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Replica, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37604	Public enterprises today are making surpluses, unlike the time of Dragan Gilas when the rules are deficits and debts. That's a huge difference, and that's exactly what it says about what kind of policy you've been supporting, and what kind of SNS policy has been implementing. If you are a member of the Management Board "Study B", it does not mean that you can get information that is easily verifiable based on the budget of the city of Belgrade. Of course, all citizens can get such data, especially since we all know that GSP is in trouble precisely because it gives great subsidies to the citizens of Belgrade. Get out here, and tell me what the plan is to restructure the GSP to be profitable, not to be exclusively self-sustainable. Come out, so say it's a certain privatisation, that it's a way out of the budget, not out of the budget, but out of the way. So if you want to increase the ticket in social categories, then say what's the price. So between those two choices you have to say what your party's policy is about all of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37605	Thank you. (Miljan Damjanovic: Replica. The replica on the replica? For once in our lives, we have to finish our replicas, and now it's that moment, believe me. The moment has come and Nikola Jolovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37606	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, today we have a proposal to elect a new finance minister, and above all, I would like to commend the work and efforts of the previous finance minister, Mr Vujovic, and to stress that during the past period this ministry has successfully implemented all the measures and reforms that have led to the development and better life of all citizens. In the previous period, Serbia recorded excellent results in the real sector and public finances, which were reflected in high economic growth rates, followed by fiscal consolidation and a decrease in public debt. The growing risks of fiscal insolvency have imposed fiscal consolidation and structural reforms as inevitable economic policy measures to stop the pace of public debt growth and stimulate economic growth. The Republic of Serbia has greatly improved the business climate and today after three years of reform is one of the most attractive investment sites in the Western Balkans and beyond. In the last year alone, thanks to foreign investments, 16,400 new jobs have been opened. The aim of the Serbian government is to invest as many foreign companies as possible in Serbia, to make all of them work as best and easier to achieve greater profits as possible, and to create a modern and successful Serbia from a paid tax. The unique project "Belgrade on Water" is also one of the confirmations of a good financial policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia with a resolute ministry, which will only improve the growth and development of entrepreneurship in our country in the future. In the first quarter of 2018, a surplus of 6.5 billion dinars was achieved. The paid revenues of 266.7 billion dinars, while expenditures amounted to 260.3 billion dinars, which is also one of the indicators of our country's good financial policy. As for Novi Pazar, the city from which I come from, a large number of investments have arrived from the republican level and placed in our city, so we can boast of the new gerantocenter, diagnostic centre, new schools and kindergartens, as well as large investments in infrastructure. I hope that, with the help of the new finance minister, we will only continue through the prosperity of new investments and new jobs. The proposal to appoint Mr Sinisha Mali as finance minister is not surprising, given his impressive biography. How people with knowledge and experience should function in the government of the Republic of Serbia, as has been a practice so far, Sinisa Mali, as a student of the generation, a scholarship student of Rhond Brauna, who has mastered Washington University of St. Louis, as well as an assistant of five cases in the area of business finance, certainly deserves this duty. The experience that is extremely important for this job is also not lacking in the new proposed finance minister, as it is as assistant minister for privatisation, and later as director of the Centre for tender privatisation at the Privatisation Agency, I can certainly argue that it can perform in the best way the duty it will be entrusted to him. Finally, as the bearer of Belgrade's previous mayorship, he launched a large programme of financial consolidation to achieve a sustainable financial stabilisation of the city of Belgrade. He achieved excellent results and launched major investment projects. With such results, the appointment of Sinisha Mali as finance minister is only a step forward in improving and speeding up the growth and development of the Republic of Serbia on its European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37607	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slavisa Bulatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37608	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister, I will support your proposal to elect Sinisha Mali as Minister of Finance. It is indisputable that the arrival of Alexander Vukic as prime minister in 2014 changed the state's attitude towards the southern and Pcinj district, particularly in the sense that the government has started to deal seriously with problems that have been pushed under the carpet for decades. In addition to numerous projects implemented in Vranje and the south, as well as those whose realisation is ongoing or expected in years ahead, I would especially point out. I come from a small town, Vranjska Banja, which is small by the number of inhabitants, but is among the largest in the world by the natural wealth it has. In Vranjska Banja, geothermal water springs with a temperature of over 100 degrees, and thanks to President Vukic's promise to stay in Vranjska Banja, a decades-old judicial dispute over ownership of an unfinished rehabilitation centre, led between the PIO Fund and a special hospital, which is now seriously interested by a domestic investor. We sincerely expect that the government will find a way to privatise this hotel, namely the unfinished Republic of Croatia. Perhaps the best evidence for the government's presence in the south is that 4,000 jobs in Simpa and Jumku have been preserved in Vranj as the headquarters of the Pcinj County. ‘Jumko’, e.g. Today, he has contracts with the military and police worth 15m euros. Prime Minister, you have personally opened the new Ballistics plant in Jumko, where the new 100 workers should be employed, showing that it is important for you to develop South and Vranje, as well as for the rest of our country. In addition, the surgical bloc, which will be part of the Vranje Health Centre and as a regional health institution, ends in Vranj, to provide services for more than 250,000 residents of the Pcinj County and Kosovo Pomorja. What we expect from the government is help in equipping the surgical block. Finally, I must admit that I understand the opposition's dissatisfaction with the proposal for Mr Sinisa Mali to be Minister of Finance, because Sinisa Mali has fully disarmed and left no chance in the recent local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37609	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37610	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume Mr. Mali will return, we are facing a very serious task today to choose the candidate proposed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia as one of the most important resolutions, the Finance Resor. What I will say at the outset is, and my colleagues, Miroslav Petronijevic, and the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic, said we will support the proposal that you came before the National Assembly of Serbia. Serbia is a country of critics, and besides the fact that we like to criticise it, that is the best quality and dedication. When it comes to you, Mr. Mali, your biography shows that you've worked hard and that you're very susceptible to this criticism. You know, when you're in focus, then leave space for those who've done less to your work to look back at the moss with critical, rarely commendable. What is important is that this biography of yours also shows a rich work experience, both in the private sector and in the financial sphere, which the Serbian Parliament will trust you to keep, I would say, in the next period. You've been at different levels of the state sector, from the executive, where you've been advisor to the economy and finance in the government of the Republic of Serbia, to, we've heard from discussions and positive and negative, mayor of Belgrade, which seems to have marked your career. When you ran Belgrade, the Socialists gave their friend, our Nikola, who was part of your team and yours, I can say freely, perhaps even the first associate and we are really proud of everything you've done in Belgrade in the past. So, thanks to your team, there are 12.8 billion dinars in Belgrade's account. The debt is halved. Now we have a financially consolidated city and you've introduced fiscal discipline and I really congratulate you on that. All the investment projects you've launched have been very much talked about here and, in order not to repeat ourselves, I will not stress again what you've done with your team, but what's very important for me, and what I especially congratulate you on is that you've really taken care of not only the work that we gleaningly call the circle of twos, but you've devoted very much to your team and those bordered municipalities of Belgrade in the way that you first made it easier for people to live, which is primarily through these infrastructure projects, and I think there are very few of those routes in Belgrade today that, thanks to the authorities in Belgrade, have not been repaired, reconstructed and brought to a phase that they're actually making life easier. I'm also saying this through the prism that, given the circumstances, we found ourselves together in a part of the Belgrade municipality in the Lambs, when you promised not to a small group of people who had waited there, that they would get the asphalt road, as soon as possible, because it was some macadam that they used for years. It seems to me that displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija and perhaps some of the refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. To my great pleasure, they reported shortly after our stay there to say that you had fulfilled your promise. What do you get and what do you get as a mission? The management of the Ministry of Finance. You'll be the keeper of the state register. That's how I like to say it. This ministry is also responsible for filling the state register, as well as for realising the budget of the Republic of Serbia, for the degree of tax collection and other obligations of the budgetary debtors and in accordance with all the laws governing both taxes and other obligations. That's why you'll be managing the ministry that has a special position. Regarding previous work by the Ministry of Finance, I would like to thank, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group, Minister Vujovic for all the personal and professional efforts he made in the previous period to maintain and maintain budgetary stability and increase the volume and scope of tax collection and other budget revenues. This, of course, reflects the overall monetary and macroeconomic stability of the state, which is why the expertise and commitment of Minister Vujovic, indeed no one who is well-intentioned and rational, can be questioned. I believe that our new finance minister, who also has high professional references and academic knowledge and titles, will continue to build on several world higher education institutions, with the achievement of national targets on state finance management. What you can also see from your biography is that you were president of the organisation committees of important sports events that took place in Belgrade. Why am I putting an accent on this? Because sports events, such as the European Athletics Championship, which was organised in 2017 or "Final Four", which took place a few days ago and not to talk about the Belgrade marathon. It is a good motive, and it has its positive effects, both on the budget of the City of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia, unequivocally, we can say so, and on our children who are on a daily level, still exposed to some commercial content in terms of reality which seems to me to have a bad impact. I firmly believe that Nikola Nikodjevic, as the newly elected president of the Assembly and the future mayor of Belgrade that we will soon receive, will continue with the quality work that has remained behind you, and that you will put all your knowledge into work as finance minister and lead to even better results, even though these are absolutely commendable today under the circumstances where we started. Once again, I stress, the SPS will support the election of Cynthia Malah for the finance minister in the voting day, and I congratulate you on behalf of my colleagues and I wish you successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37611	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. You have one minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37612	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the city of Belgrade and the municipality of Obrenovac in Baric opened a Meita factory that employs 1,820 workers today, and the average profit is 53,000 dinars, and is expected to be employed around 1,900 by the end of June. The second phase of the project, which we are confident will be realised, says three thousand workers will be employed by the end of next year. Why is this important? It is important because in the beginning of the work of this factory and this good project and the average salary of 53 thousand dinars, those workers who work with private workers, who have abused the position of extra labour, have come to better status or have received a job in Meiti as good and valuable, or a second position has now been created that those who have earned their work must pay them well. That is why the Socialist Movement supports both the Republic government and the city government, because that is what is treasure for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Projects like this also solve the problem in the long term, and it is not a treasure for citizens of the Republic of Serbia when the pirates go after Maldives for the buried treasure of the red-bearded pirate that Belgrade and Serbia robbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37613	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37614	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, candidate for future minister, I would like first to commend your election for the future finance minister, and at first I must say that no finance minister in recent decades has had the luck of starting a mandate with such a good state in the budget as you do, thanks to the previous government headed by Alexander Vucic, thanks to the current government headed by Mrs Ana Brnabic, thanks to Minister Dusan Vujovic and his associates, of course, who I hope will be adorned by your cabinet. The previous government actually managed to stop the bankruptcy of the country that was at our door and managed to consolidate the state budget and reduce the deficit Serbia had been struggling with for years before. The current government continued at the same pace. In the last four years, Serbia's "Doing Business List" rating has been significantly corrected by the World Bank, where we have managed to make progress for as many as 48 places under the general conditions of business. These two governments have managed to reduce the cost of borrowing resulting from the poor management of public finances in the past. They introduced austerity measures that recognised the importance of citizens and carried the greatest burden themselves. These days we can be witnesses and see for ourselves the results of the savings seen in the announced pension increase of 5 to 25%, and compared to 2014 it will be somewhere between 8% and 13%. I would not have owed much by listing all the projects you start across Serbia over the past five years: from building highways, factories, hospitals, schools, courts and the like. I'm just going to look back today on projects in the city of the King where I come from. These projects are partly or entirely funded from the Republic budget, and some of them are the elementary school “Sveti Sava” in Ribnica, the primary court in Kraljev, the construction of the settlement, the urban regeneration of the entire settlement, I hope the construction of a settlement for the security forces that is about to begin, the construction of the Preljina highway – Pojate, the reconstruction of the Ibar highway, the closed swimming pool, not much longer, many projects that have made the lives of the citizens of the Kings and Serbia better. In order to ensure further economic growth and development, we must complete such projects as we have started and provided financial resources, as well as start new projects. This is a hard job waiting for you, but we're all here. If this government continues its rigorous control of the inflow and spending of money and maintains fiscal discipline and accountability in managing public finances, at this rate by the end of 2019, the deficit in the budget will be below 1% and GDP growth in the next one, but also in this year over 3.5%. With further GDP growth and low deficit, additional space will be created to increase wages and pensions, new infrastructure investments, temporary repayment of loans, construction of kindergartens, schools, hospitals, factories and the like. These are all the challenges ahead of you. We are entering a dynamic process of rapid economic growth, new opportunities, a significantly higher standard of living for citizens and a overall better life for all citizens of Serbia. From you, Mr. Minister, we expect you to maintain in public finances the order imposed by the previous and current government and keep your public revenues and expenditures well planned. Given that you have taken care of the finances and citizens of Belgrade, I am sure you will do so at the same pace for all citizens of Serbia. I'm sure you'll be committed to implementing the reforms you've already started, because public finances are the heart of every country's economic system. I thank you, Prime Minister, for the comprehensive and detailed explanation of this proposal today, and I want you to continue to manage and continue the policy that you are implementing so far, and I wish you, Mr. future Minister, a success in your work. My colleagues, the MPs of the SNS and I will support your proposal for a new minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37615	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37616	Dear President of the Assembly, Madam Prime Minister, it is my pleasure to support Mr Sinisha Malo today as a national MP and as someone who has long run the local self-government for the future finance minister in the Serbian government, who has proved to be a successful manager and someone who knew the right and proper way to run the local self-government, or the city of Belgrade, as the largest local self-government in Serbia. Why am I saying this? So, first of all, Mr. Mali, when you're here for a month or two ahead of us with a budget rebalance, the Serbian budget that should be good enough for citizens of Serbia and pensioners and others, don't forget that we have one obligation to local self-government, all of Serbia, which is to reform the Law on the financing of local self-government, which has been in place since 2005. A lot of colleagues here talked about Mladjan Dinkic, but unfortunately, throughout all these years, his Law on city financing and municipalities that are completely unfair and which favored only municipalities and cities where he had the president, or mayors. So today there's a big misunderstanding in the local self-government of these so-called so-called so-called local governments. transfer funds where the town of Cačak has three times less transfer funds than the city of Loznica, such as Topola and Arangelovac, have two times less transfer funds than Raca has, for example, three times the size of these municipalities. It would be good to have a clear and transparent way of calculating the transfer funds and giving them to local self-government before the 2019 budget is adopted. The other thing is, Mr. Mali, which would be good if we could clearly and clearly see on the Ministry's site the responsibility of the municipality, the local self-government. I give you all the respect that you have managed to reduce the significant debt of the City of Belgrade. We've been listening here for days from some fellow opposition MPs to the story, and they're their municipalities and cities, when they've been leading in charge of billions, and they haven't answered anyone, and they're not the only ones to answer, they're also the finance ministers who were and who allowed these cities, and the municipalities to be in charge. Unfortunately, no one was to blame. Now with the right colleagues on the right, they can say – why didn't you sanction them? Who was supposed to sanction them? The Ministry of Finance. For this reason, it would be good if all citizens could see the degree of responsibility of all local self-government and that we who run local self-governments that don't even have a dinar of credit can proudly say – well, we run local self-government successfully, and at least you don't respect our lessons here in this House. On the other hand, when I have already mentioned new parliament sessions where you will talk about budget rebalancing, Mr Mali, we have a lot of citizens talking to us, there are currently about 100,000 people in Serbia who have worked, these are former workers of failed state enterprises, who have executive court rulings, and who, unfortunately, cannot charge, because these companies have gone bankrupt, some have been liquidated, some of them out of bankruptcy are privatised, but those claims to these people are still standing today, it would be good to have some rebalances that will come into the 2019 budgets, and later in 2020, find the possibility that some 12, or 15m euros, as much as they owe to those people, to make it worth it. On the other hand, I have to ask you, we are constantly talking here about the chances of Serbian agrarian and Serbian agriculture, we still have debts from the last quarter of 2017, for subsidies to farmers, and it would be good to have it paid off as soon as possible. On the other hand, I am in a group of farmers, since I live in the country, which has been successful for the first time since World War II to collect damage through the court, i.e. obtaining a judgment for damages from the city that hit Topola in 2014. A group of farmers, more specifically 18, received some 600,000 euros in judicial compensation from the state, because the state is very disorderly in charge of the Anti-Government Protection Sector. We don't have enough missiles, the shooters are underpaid, unfortunately, automation is going quite slowly and now is the chance that in years and months to come, that situation is getting better. Otherwise, the practice and decisions of the courts will have serious implications for the budget, above all, of the Ministry of Agriculture. In accordance with the time I have, at the very end, I want to wish you every personal happiness. Of course, you'll need happiness where you're going to be. Of course, the finance minister is someone who implements politics and who is a team player, as it is said, and that is why it is important that you make all decisions on a good team. Team Ana Brnabic is a good team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37617	Time. Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37618	I thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister, the respected future finance minister, I will not repeat myself, given the position of the SPS parliamentary group when it comes to your choice. No doubt we'll give support here. However, what I want to point out is extremely well-intentioned, from the point of view of what has been recognised by the SPS parliamentary group and to suggest, are the following things. First of all, in the election and entry into the office of the finance minister, it is no doubt that you are taking over a responsible job and facing a number of challenges and temptations that I have no doubt that you will succeed. The most important thing, in our view, is the following things. The first is fiscal discipline as a sustainable state. Why am I saying that? It is precisely because this fiscal discipline has been achieved after a long time, and that is something that gives this country and the budget of the Republic of Serbia security. For a long, long time we have had a state of full anarchy in fiscal policy and full anarchy when it comes to practical application of fiscal rules, especially tax collection. Since 2014, and two years before that, the situation has been consolidated, and this government has succeeded in achieving the level of fiscal discipline needed to maintain and maintain the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia. In this direction, I have no doubt that you will give an adequate result, speed up the even better work of the tax administration, propose better fiscal laws that will allow, in practical terms, to make tax payments even more effective. Further temptations or challenges if we can call them so are related to the rationalisation of the public sector or public administration, given that there is still one serious job to be done, a very complex delicate job relating to the reduction of the number of public sector employees. The Republic of Serbia has taken over its commitments and, according to the IMF, it successfully implements the agreements reached. Rationalisation will continue to be successfully implemented, but most importantly, the most significant thing is that the number of employees currently in the public sector will redistribute and engage, i.e. regulate working legal status in the economy, especially in private-equity companies, therefore, with private-owned capital. I think that, in this direction, we should think very much about providing business with certain incentives, especially for private entrepreneurs and private business owners, especially medium-sized private enterprises and small private businesses. Why? Because it will be necessary for a number of employees to be dislocated from the public sector and to move to work in companies operating with private capital to a certain extent. To another extent, it is doubtless that the natural outflow through retirement and many other circumstances and factors will affect this rationalisation to be implemented most efficiently and without social shocks and without jeopardising the standards of the population, our citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The third thing I wanted to comment on is what seems most important to me. Fiscal stability must be in line with legal certainty. Legal security and financial stability cannot be without each other. If there's no legal certainty, there's no investment. If there's no investment, there's no income. If there is no income, there is no budget fill and there is no sustainable and stable budget that will serve everything necessary to be serviced from the budget, to cover expenditure, to maintain the situation that we currently have as an exceptional good situation which has otherwise been highlighted with facts and arguments and prime ministers, and in this direction it is necessary to help those who need to provide that legal certainty, which are courts. Our justice system that collapsed, especially in 2009 and 2010, which is very well known to you, when we had one disastrously poor judicial reform, a disastrously bad re-election that has led to numerous problems which are now a direct blow to the Republic of Serbia's budget. A number of Strasbourg rulings, numerous decisions by international courts are solely on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why? Because the sick judiciary and the sick state of justice allowed the violation of many rights guaranteed by the Constitution, many rights of citizens, citizens to address or apply, as they say correctly, I am a lawyer and I must use those terms, they address Strasbourg, the Court of Human Rights. Strasbourg is making those decisions that are, in fact, the most direct blow to the Republic of Serbia's budget. On the one hand, when such a situation is observed, it cannot be avoided in any case that we also touch the other part when it comes to such an approach, which is that, despite being in the jurisdiction of the VSS, a complete financial regulation relating to the judiciary, the VSS allows for some better funding that enables logistic support in the work of the courts, both in terms of the equipment, which is necessary, technically and each other, and in terms of raising within the limits of what is possible and sustainable, salaries to employees, especially those representing the judicial administration, those who represent that part of the judicial system on which this operational work is largely represented. Of course, in order to avoid any possibility of corruption, it is also necessary to consider increasing the salary to judges, paying them back the fees that are possible to repay, especially so-called. Traveling judges who have the right to the compensation, judges of the Republic rank, and thus allow legal certainty, which generates all necessary, to be provided, and citizens have access to justice and fair and independent courts and independent judges. I hope that in cooperation with the Minister of Justice and with the Minister of Economy... (President: thank you, you've wasted your time. I end up in one sentence. ... to ensure that. Congratulations, safe choice today and in future work support of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37619	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37620	Thank you. Sinisha Mali's choice is the best picture of the state of society in Serbia and what is the political scene in Serbia. Since 2000, a system of occupation-crime has been established here in Serbia, where foreigners have the main word, while domestic obedient elites are blindly serving their interests and destroying the country's crime. Sinisha Mali is one of many in a number of political characters who has appeared here since 2000 and has exactly the same biography as many before. We all remember God Djelic, we all remember Pitiæ, Novakovic and various other yellow ones then, who came as professional qualified people here to introduce order into the economy, economy and finance of our country and with the rightful majority criticise this period and their results and indicate that these were numerous abuses and criminal acts. But part of that system is Sinisha Mali. In 2001, he designed the entire concept of privatisation and destruction of this country as a talented junior and fuller of Aleksandra Vlahovic and Mirko Cvetkovic. You, Mrs. Brnabić, yesterday, will quote the stenogram notes, you have very well defended Mr. Mali, even he did not need to speak to you and answer various charges on his account, because you know very well his biography and his business development path. You'd think you were business partners in some firms or that you almost became his sister-in-law when you knew so much about Sinisha Malo. Defending Sinisha Malloy, you said there were no disputed privatisations in his time. That's not true. There were around 1,300 privatised companies between 2001 and 2003 with over 150,000 employees. Many of them were controversial. Some were directly associated with Sinisha Mali, such as Beopetrol and Jugormedia, the Partizanka stocking factory in Belgrade, and some others are also scandalous, where he may not be directly involved, but certainly as a Privatisation Agency official he had to know. For example, we had a case to sell sugars for three euros, so the debts were dropped, so Mr. Kostic took over, sold other people's sugar, NIS sugar for 65m euros, and all of this happened at the time Mr. Sinisa Mali was overseeing it. In 2003. Sinisha Mali is moving into the private sector. You devoted most of the time yesterday to defending exactly his involvement in, as you said, the private sector, that no one even has the right to question it. In particular, you defended that he worked exclusively through a brother-in-law company saying that you care for the employees of Serbian citizens who work in such companies. However, this is not about employees, but about persons who are owners of short companies and who open these companies up most often, not most often, but 100% to avoid paying taxes if nothing, or to reduce the tax revenues of the home country, or countries where they operate or to allow money laundering. I would remind you, on 19.04, a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you passed a bill on the central record of the real owners. Yesterday you spoke to us and defended us from the Shore of Companies, and your government adopted a bill two or three weeks ago that will come into the National Assembly, which we will discuss, which is precisely intended to enable us to determine who the real owners of the Shore Company are. How do the short companies work? The person who owns the brother-in-law of the company is not actually the owner, but the person on whom the company is registered and the real owner pays him annually practically this renting, and the person holding the account or who received the representation contract, which is very difficult to find out who he is, is the owner. Sinisa Mali had 45 bills, 45 accounts owned or worked for 45 companies in that way. Many of them are involved, not in affairs, but in crimes. This is not about the presumption of innocence, this is about the state authorities not doing the procedure until the end, they haven't started the proceedings, and you're proposing such a person as finance minister and it's a scandal, but it's a real picture of Serbia living and what our circumstances are 18 years, and that's why we're here, and that's why 6,500 million citizens are barely making ends meet, and a couple hundred thousand are extremely well alive. Sinisa Mali, as an official of the Privatisation Agency, made it possible for his father, Borislav and family friend Vladimir Delic, to buy the Bratstvo car factory from Saturday. Later, his father gave in to Vladimir Delic, and he raised 3.7m euros worth of credit to the Cyprus company, Unibros, and later the company collapsed and returned to the state. Mr. Delic now has two of the short companies in the United Arab Emirates and one in Panama and is suspected of doing business with Mr. Mali. Yesterday you said you didn't have a company with Cynthia Mali, but you're connected to those two companies that Sinisha Mali bought from those Bulgarian apartments. Here there is only one missing Mr Igor Isailović as a third member of your team and your family, where you are all together in companies – lawyer Igor Isailović, Siniša Mali and Ana Brnabić through a large number of companies are doing business together and are in business combinations, and yesterday my party colleague mentioned another company called Enerži novojšn d.o.o. This is the company you have with Igor Isailovic, where you were the owner of 70%, Igor Isailovic 30%, and the company is registered to Dedinj at your address. Later you went out, the director was your partner, Ms. Djurdzic. Later on, when you became Minister, your ownership rights, and Mr. Isailovic then transferred ownership rights to Sonja Sol. It is interesting how profits are growing, from a million dinars to nearly 3,200,000 from 2015 to 2016, for 2017 you did not report on the distribution of profits or the coverage of profits, and in January you shut down this company. Why, when is everything so clean? Let's move on, Mr. Mali was connected yesterday by counterpart Sanda Raskovic Ivić from two other accounts, including "Minel Elvo". He was also a member of the board of directors together with Igor Isailovic, which is the company Slobodan Vukevic, an American citizen, and Igor Isailovic has submitted numerous changes to him at the Agency for Business Registers. He is also a member of the board of directors "Minel Elva" as well as Siniša Mali, meaning in 2008, and Sinisa Mali was for "Minel Elvo" and in 2007 on the board of directors B92. For Mr. Vucicevic, you were then involved in money laundering operations through KK "Red Star", Mr. Mali, and you inherited this job from Goran Vesic and Žika Spider, Živorad Angelković, who did so during that earlier period, and we know who came to KK "Red Star" after you to do the same. He's the one we're talking about here. Let's move on, Mrs. Brnabic, Sinisa Mali was a star of "Pajprs", and you were a "Malta Files" star, only here in Serbia an accent was placed on another minister who was supposed to be politically discredited, probably because of ties with Russia, Mr. Popovic, and it is completely silent that there are far more interesting personalities, such as Nenad Kovac and lawyer Srdjan Kovacevic, which is the main lawyer of DS and Dragan Djilas, Bojan Pajtic in all their affairs, at the same time as Mr. Kovac's lawyer, best man Nikola Petrovic, that his company is "Southa Baka", who operated with the state during the time of the SNS government over 100m euros. Also here you gave a statement to the Croatian "National" on 13.3.2018 and one big text about the entire company scheme. You were the director of the Continental Visions and you never answered my question about the "Continental Visions" and Nenada Kovaca called Nasha Roming. It is also owned by River pavr listenn, a company registered in Malta with branch headquarters in Đura Jaksic, so both you and how well you know what is of the brother-in-law and how they do business of short companies. For the end, I'd like to ask you two more things. You say Serbia's budget is very good. Then on which you do not execute, let's say, on the basis of judicial solutions, execution cannot be carried out at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, on which is the execution order, but on sub-accounts of individual authorities, and they are practically blocked, e.g. The Justice Department's account for over three million dinars? Why are court orders forced to charge, decisions to execute against state authorities and public funds users not carried out by transferring from the budget, but precisely through these sub-accounts filled with certain dynamics? Please, is this a violation of the law, and do you, for example, put companies that are privately owned in a more unfavourable position? And finally, about Sinisha Mali and the city of Belgrade. You didn't happen to mention certain projects. "River pavr listens", your firm, is involved in Belgrade's water cooling project, as well as the construction of a hot water line via the Continental Lids you mentioned yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37621	Thank you. You've spent your time with your MPs. Thank you very much. When you have more votes - more time. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37622	Thank you, Chairman. What does a man say, God be with us! But be assured that it's always important who tells you and not what he tells you. But just in the beginning, just a little bit to be clear, don't take into account everything people say about this profile. As they imagine finance and economy, I'll only tell you on one case. On the day that they introduced a Croatian parliamentary representative, completely uninvited, I do not remember that one of my colleagues was uninvited at the Croatian Parliament gallery, nor do we intend to do it, says their friend, here I quote: "The living wall advocates that marijuana is produced in Croatia, not to go hand in hand with pharmaceutical lobbys. “ Legalisation also considers demographic measures, since young people, in addition to reviving the economy, would be careful, in addition to reviving the economy that would come from production, have reason to stay in Croatia, and legalization of marijuana would lead to a renaissance of agriculture, tourism, and that many would be happier. The party leader who introduced him, the leader of my previous counterpart's party, says, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: "We have a very similar critical relationship. We want to restore monetary sovereignty. We insist on protecting family values, especially the family home. This is just the beginning of a major co-operation of a new political generation in the Balkans that is not burdened with past conflicts." I think I've told you everything about this, when it comes to the position of this political organization towards the election of the finance minister. But let's get back to that job we're here for today. Dear Prime Minister, on the day you were elected to this honored home, you submitted to us an exposé or a program of government work that you are running today. I remember very well that you devoted one large part to faster economic growth, even a third of the exposés, and all that in that second chapter, regarding macroeconomic stability, controlled inflation, the basics of economic employment growth, the reduction of the grey economy, etc. All of this required a serious fiscal consolidation, and it demanded the solidarity of the whole society. Very often in some other societies such measures cause serious political and social earthquakes. However, it did not happen in Serbia. We have had the solidarity of society in action, the citizens have supported everything we intend to do together and I must say that for today's situation in the country we are well grateful to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And the situation is next. When we talk about the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, we have the responsibility of 59% of GDP, and the situation in 2012 is 83.7. When it comes to inflation, which you also devoted one good part to, we have it at a European average of 1.5%. I'll just say that in Hungary, it's about 1.88%, and in some Scandinavian countries, even more. Economic growth, according to the European Commission's estimates, is 3.5%. By 2012, you have a decline of 2.5% to 3.3%. Unemployment rate – 13% and by 2012 you have 26%. The level of the grey economy has been reduced to about 5% to 6% compared to that previous period. However, all of this, if there is no repercusion to the life of an ordinary man, is less important. And I'm looking at it from the point of view of local self-government and ordinary people living in local self-government. I'm from Subotica. She's also a subject of how she felt the results of all these measures. We have a free zone, a business zone, where 6,000 employees, a serious German company, Simmons, are working today, which has invested 10m euros, which we believe is someone who opened the door to all the other companies that came to Subotica. Furthermore, Norma Group, Continental, which only last year built 12,000 squares of business space and invested 17m euros, which we again say keeps that door open, and many other companies. What does that mean, after all? So 6,000 employees, the city's foreign trade surplus 10%, that's somewhere on the level of those famous '80s, when we were proud of the Saturday industry and when Subotica was the center of industrial production in Serbia. In Subotica too, today we have and, when it comes to these companies, they participate 60% in the total exports of the city, but these are all primary effects. It's all coming from the secondary ones. When it comes to the transfer of knowledge, new technologies, the work of public enterprises that are seriously involved in all this, and that is what directly affects the life of an ordinary man. What is it that we, as MPs, expect from the new finance minister, the current mayor of Belgrade? To keep all these results that I was talking about advanced, and at the very least to keep at the same level. And that's what we expect from him together. There are objective reasons for one of our expectations, taking into account everything you said was his previous experience and his work in the city of Belgrade. We will certainly support the candidate for the finance minister in the voting day, and we expect him to support Serbia's citizens above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37623	Thank you. (Srdian Nogo: Replica. That only the head of parliament or deputy can replicate, since you have not authorized anyone else. (Srdian Nogo: Because personal dignity was. He spoke to me personally. You've reached out to the replica. I'm talking about the replica first. When you change your mind, you change your mind. (Srdian Nogo: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37624	Mrs Gojkovic, member 104 and member 107. According to Article 104, which gives me the right to reply, the previous speaker most directly addressed me as the previous speaker in relation to him and presented certain disqualifications affecting my dignity. In fact, by saying one fact that could absolutely stand, means that it doesn't matter what they say, although it always matters what they say, it's also important who they talk about. Now, since it's a challenge for me to be a Parliamentarian, I have a right, and I have to answer and answer. Because for me, there's not a single affair, not a single prosecution, nor a reasonable suspicion that I was involved in any crime, because I was just in my own exposure, at the expense of the Prime Minister and the candidate for the finance minister, giving the grounds for doubt that they were involved in a series of various legal acts that represent criminal acts...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37625	It's all right, don't replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37626	No, please. Please, you were my duty to answer to say that I had never been involved in such things as, say, insinuating a previous speaker. Because I and how I have the right as a People's MP, I have credibility, because not a single MP of the ruling majority has stood up and presented any evidence and said – Srdjan Nogo did that, that and that. That's why I think I've been obliged to get two minutes and answer the previous speaker exactly that and say that it really matters who's talking, and for me, I can't point fingers and say that I've done crimes, that I'm involved in financial malfeasance, that I have a brother-in-law of companies. So I think you've violated the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37627	If you want, we'll vote on it. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, because there's been talk of a parliamentary group, not of you, but it's a matter of personal affinity and emotion. The word is Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37628	Honored presidents, the presidency, respected prime minister, respected future finance ministers, respected MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group in 2014 supported then-Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic in difficult economic and other reforms in Serbia. That's what we're doing right now. We support the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by distinguished Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. The results that have been achieved over the last four years are worth the attention and can be freely said to be great. I would especially like to highlight two parts of these reforms. The first is fiscal consolidation, of which there were many words yesterday and today. The Prime Minister specifically spoke of it, and I have no reason to comment on it. I stress this special contribution to the results of the State Auditing Institution and the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia. Second, he was not spoken of today or yesterday, it's a reform of pension-inhabited insurance. Reforms of pension-inhabited insurance, which I was talking about in December of the month, have produced excellent results. All objectives were achieved when the reform programme was adopted in 2014, only two indicators. Pensions in GDP fell to 11% and pensions were paid out of the pension cover budget almost 30%. The Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund works successfully, and special care is taken to those pensioners who have the lowest incomes, i.e. the poorest, especially regarding the social standard seen in the recovery of pensioners in spas, solidarity packages, cultural and sports activities. It is my assessment and it would be good for the minister to encourage it, to allocate funds for these purposes in the next period. In particular, pensioners made a special contribution to the measures laid down in the Interim Method of Retirement Act. This contribution is the largest of all the users of the Republic of Serbia's budget and, a respected prime minister and future minister, I ask you not to forget it and not to ignore that fact. I'm not talking about what that means. Reduced wages of 10% and pension 22% and 25%, respectively. It is my request that the future government, and especially the future minister, insist with local self-government that they take part in the responsibility for the greater care of the poorest pensioners. I will give an example only of Novi Sad, where conditions are created for pensioners using benefits created on an annual basis to save one month's pension. We particularly welcome the initiative and the proposal to put the Law on the economic way of calculating pensions out of force. That was our proposal from December last year. We expect the government, especially from the future minister, to coordinate with other ministries that are concerned about this proposal for preparation and guidance in the assembly procedure. The pension-involved insurance law should come into force again. We also propose that the initiative we have given and launched be accepted and that better and more sustainable solutions to the pension-inhabitation system in Serbia be sought, we especially expect from the future minister. Dear Prime Minister, as well as future ministers, we expect pensioners, as has been the case so far, to have regular and secure payments to what they have earned for decades, and these are pensions. Dear Ministers, we expect you to have a great commitment, but there is an even greater responsibility on your part, and there is also co-operation with the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is no chairman of the Committee, but we have also had some negative experience on this and that is why I mention it. Also, my request, the respected future ministers, is to respect the largest NGO in Serbia, the largest organisation of pensioners, it is the Union of Pensioners of Serbia, and the first time you receive them for the interview. I wish you successful work on this function, asking you to respect the need and desire of us about two million old, including 1,717,254 retired users, is our message and support to the state and the Prime Minister that you become Minister of Finance. Reciprocate it with respect and understanding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37629	Thanks, buddy. The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37630	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the respected President, Mrs. Brnabic, with the future finance minister, in terms of economic and economic development, it is important to point out once again that the difficult fiscal consolidation measures that have resulted in the creation of stable finances, in the reduction of public debt, as opposed to the earlier period. As chairman of the Economic Committee, I have to highlight the surplus in the republican budget in the first quarter of this year of 6.5 billion dinars, GDP growth of 4.5%, a low inflation rate, a public debt below 60%. These facts give me the right to expect an additional impulse in further development and strengthening Serbia's economy. Because strong economics and economies with an orderly and efficient state administration make a strong state. The takeover of the Serbian economy and economy is and must be the priority of this government. New investments, investments, new jobs, regular budget filling, further GDP growth, and a better standard of citizens, safe and regular pensions are needed, as well as strengthening the Serbian village and cooperatives. These are the goals of the government and President Vukic, and they must be achieved. They've been given citizens' trust. The model you have to do, the results you have, you need continuity in the field of overall finance to maintain good financial discipline, as well as responsible and controlled spending of public funds. The creational role of the finance minister is very visible, important and measurable there. So, Mr. Sinisha Mali, you have great, hard and responsible work ahead of you. Please keep that in mind. On the eve of your proposal to elect a new finance minister, the government has made a decision to abolish the temporary pension cuts, or to increase them. This is very encouraging, especially for our pensioners, who once they receive increased pensions will once again have confirmation of their dignity, respect for the burdens they have endured during the fiscal consolidation and the most stable budget register. On this occasion, I must point out that the empowerment of the Serbian village and the cooperative industry is equally important because of the fact that in 4,709 of our Serb villages, over 630,000 owners live one fifth of the total population. So it's about 1,400,000 of our citizens and they need to be able to make life, work and innovation better. The very village makes the country even stronger. In the end, Mrs. Brnabic, I believe in a government whose head you are, I believe in you, in your choice, as well as that serious, honorable, professional and teamwork must deliver. From that belief, the PUPS parliamentary group will support you. I wish you, your team and future finance minister a lot of success in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37631	Comrade Kovacevic, you have 22 seconds left. Would you like to take advantage of that? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37632	Thank you. I don't have enough time to say what I thought, but whatever our people say well, what doesn't kill you, it strengthens you. Against you is Mr. Sinisha Mali led, so it's a little bit to say "gabels' drip," but those who ran that campaign were defeated, and you've strengthened and you're the ones who came out as the winner. I have to say, really, what was done against us, that someone was abusing even your ex-wife, making up apartments for you, quoting Tabloid, that's proof of how much someone touched the bottom. However, no matter what, you've come out as a winner, and just because you piss them off so much, and because that's why they hate you so much, well, that's why I'm going to vote for you with all my heart because I know you're going to be a winner again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37633	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37634	Thank you very much. A very exhaustive debate, which is a custom when selecting a new minister, especially a finance minister who is one of the three, four most important portfolios in every government in the world, including in the Serbian government. Yesterday, I already said my opinion that the proposed candidate is absolutely responsible for the government of Ana Brnabic and for the authority of Aleksandr Vukic. Many opposition colleagues have said that he has no qualifications, that he is full of affairs, that there are many vague or too many clear things in his past, but that is practically all my fellow opposition colleagues have said exactly, but that is a description of someone who should be an adequate minister in the power of the SNS and their coalition partners. I've already said, it's a power based on fairy tales, on lies, on beautiful ideas that are impossible or on ugly ideas that are possible and easy to implement, and it seems very simple. And again, it's the government that promised that the FAP from Priboj would get the SISU partner, that "Icarbus" would get "Mercedes" as its future partner, that it would be made in Panče's factory of chips the most modern in the world, Europe, inhabited by Christ on here, that the Danube-Var-Egey-Belko Sea channel would be built, certainly the sea, that it would be made "Belgrade on water" two years ago with a huge profit, so here, it's not over this year, nor will there be any profit from it, that it would be the sale of Fiyat's cars in Russia and the community of independent states since four years ago, so here, zero cars are sold, even the government itself does not buy these Fiyatt cars from Kragujevac when it buys for police or other services. So that's it. It's practically one real situation and it's true that citizens vote for it, one part of the citizens, there's no doubt about it and that's the problem. But I leave it to the citizens to solve the problem themselves, me as a politician, which I am proud of, as someone who participated in both opposition work and government, which I am also proud of, I can speak facts, but if one part of Serbia's citizens is not enough reason to regain consciousness and vote against lies, what to do. Everyone owns their own destiny, and there's no story about anyone voting any way they want. For such a vote can be an excuse and a media blockade and fear and exorcism and sandwiching and botting and I don't know what it is, but I can't figure it out. We've heard all sorts of things in these two days, we've heard from the Prime Minister one exhaustive exposure, very inspired, broadly and supported by the fact of trees in modern Serbian history, about trees outside business centres in Italy, about trees in Abu Dhabi, in front of the Rock of the Feller Building in America. So I think that the citizens of Serbia, who have so far not had enough knowledge from the four-year-olds, especially the trees of the New Year's Eve, will now, after this session in particular, have, and all thanks to our Prime Minister, full knowledge of how, where and who the tree sets, pays, whales and breaks up. I think it's a great thing. We heard the same amazing facts, under quotes, which means it's not true, for example, the Financial for, which was held seven or ten days ago in Belgrade, where 15,000 foreign fans said, that it brought the city to Belgrade between twenty and thirty million euros in profits. That means, if the exact number of people who came from the four countries from where they were part of the Financial Force, that each of them spent 2,000 euros for two, up to three days. Even drunks can't do that, let alone people who are fans, and therefore emotional, but also rational, because if they weren't rational, they wouldn't be able to get to that position to cheer for the club that plays the finals, and to have enough money to come to Belgrade. So that's one lie, too. Again, I will not repeat these affairs about 24 apartments in Bulgaria, about the doctorate, about violence in "Savamala" and at home and all other things, it has already been mentioned several dozen times, and it is also absolutely qualified by the candidate to be the future finance minister in the government of Ana Brnabic, in the power of Aleksandr Vukic. We heard some more information, for the first time, in addition to the trees and squares as such, we received from the Prime Minister and confirmed that the privatisations that are the top of the tender, meaning the tender privatisations since 2001 when the third privatisation process in Serbia began, by the end of 2003, were absolutely clean. There was an attempt to present it as a merit for the candidates, and I don't want to go into it, but it's very important what the Prime Minister said, and I call on the MPs of the majority to remember what the Prime Minister told them, so they can watch what they say about private privatisations, because when the first privatisations can talk about themselves, and not, let's say, about the time I was part of some executive government. Otherwise, to remind you, it's important that this privatisation process was the first time in 1991/1992. the year, then 1995/1996. In 1997, two laws on the conversion of social property into private and the 1997 Privatisation Act, if I remember correctly, when the current governor of the NBS led it and then some small-money lunatics sold 50% of Telekom to some foreigners, and then some normal government that came after October 5th had to buy it from the Greeks and the Italians and return that great fortune to our hands. Unfortunately, after that for pipe tobacco or for the value of a beer factory in Apatin, the Apatian brewery, some authorities, with the general satisfaction of all those present, sold at the same price, say NIS, for 400 million. It's just as much "Interbru", I think that's what it's called a company, paid the shareholders of the Apathian brewery for the actions of the Apathian brewery, and I think even MEPs can distinguish both the size and size of the NIS and the Apatian brewery. We had the same story about the surplus being something phenomenal that was being realized at the level of Serbia's budget. and at the level of Belgrade, and at the level of anywhere to touch this power. It would be good if people who are a little bit of an economical force of opportunity, and should know that, at least by education, explain to the Prime Minister that it's from deficits in the budget, that there's only one worse thing, and that's a surplus. That means either you had a bad plan or you did it because you don't know, or because you deliberately wanted to lie, or it was a surplus because you took away citizens and economic operators much more than was necessary. Therefore, it is also taught in the school of economists, and the Prime Minister would have to know. My question to the Prime Minister, since the minister is unable to answer, is when will pensions be returned? This alleged decision to be returned to some amount and even increased, of course, is a untrue Serbian lie, but I ask when will the law be changed and what will happen to pensions, with that part of the pension that was stolen from 2014 to today? (President: You are bringing the end, colleague Zivkovic. One more sentence. And what's going to happen to the salaries, which are also taken away from the public sector, and that's all that's important because of that investigation already being conducted by the police and the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37635	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37636	Of course, by old custom, everything and everything was heard here again. We've been listening to everything. Let's say in a few words what's more interesting. That life in a fairy tale, if someone doesn't want to believe the results achieved in his own country, if he doesn't want to believe the people who represent these results – he doesn't have to, his right, just let him explain that it's a fairy tale to the IMF that sees these results and talks about them and writes about them. Let him explain that it's a fairy tale to the World Bank that sees these results and writes about them. Let him explain that it is a fairy tale to the European Commission that sees these results and speaks loudly about them. So let them explain that they all completely missed the topic, that they understand nothing, and that he himself is a great expert much bigger than all of them together, both the IMF and the World Bank and the European Commission. Nothing's done, it's certainly 100% right, only the 170,000 new jobs and the tenths fell from the sky, I think the number is about 90 new factories and plants in our country in the last three or four years. It just came out of nowhere. Nobody did anything, we're totally incompetent, but, well, somehow, it happened, wanted happiness just in our time. As far as these affairs are concerned, there is no difference in the level between this now and what the Dvori were saying and all the others who were literally being used by the Milovan Brkic tabloid. That's the level, literally that level. I'm sorry, man, come out, let me remind him, only once here he brought me a copy like a corpus delict to show me that everything he's saying is written somewhere. You know what? In one magazine where there's a press release on the front page for your public that some singer is a bad housewife. Now, that's the level. If that's an argument, it's an honor. Yes, plus in the budget, and if it's done domestically and if someone is creating and gaining, you don't have to understand, but as it was minus, read it in your colleagues' report, where they wrote themselves that you were all stealing, setting up, and embezzling. So it was minus, and when it wasn't, it was plus. I'm done with this, Mr. Chairman, it has something to do with those fours and some winter green categories.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37637	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37638	When does it go down? When he starts to look like them. Do you know when the leaf falls? When he's yellow. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37639	You have no right, colleague Zivkovic. He didn't mention you once. (Zoran Zivkovic: Now he spoke directly to me. He didn't mention you once. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37640	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Brnabic, you haven't answered any of the questions that are related to Sinisha Mali's affairs. All the time you're in your so-called. They replaced the thesis with answers, and you often used lies. At the expense of those who say we quote "Tabloid" to quote "Krik", we also quote the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is an institution in the Republic of Serbia, and we also quote the Bulgarian agency, and we also focused our attention on the Prosecutor's Office. But that's a smaller thing, what's more important and interesting is that, watching the whole play about setting up Little One, there's an impression in the public that he's handpicked by Alexander Vukic and that he's got a girl's fit in the way of getting his pension back. All current ministers, including the Prime Minister, were usually given bitter and difficult things to bring out. However, here is only Sinisa Mali, at the beginning of her term, gets that benefit, so to speak, that girl's preparation for the promise of restitution of pensions that were kidnapped by pensioners in 2014. What's he saying? This says that it is an act that buys peace and buys affection for a man whose affairs virtually disqualify him to sit in this place and thus, here, the highest state authorities are involved. Indeed, the kid, I would agree with my colleague Vukomanovic, is becoming the new prime minister. Of course, he, like you, Mrs. Brnabic, will draw his authority and his power from Andric's wedding. The Serbian public had the opportunity to see what a subjugation to humiliation looked like, and I think that we are all humiliated here, and especially those MPs who must vote for Sinisha Mali and who have a dumpling in their throat, and they will have to say they are for his choice, as well as Serbian citizens. This is a humiliation to all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37641	Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37642	Games are not decisions that increase pensions for pensioners from 8% to 13.3%, playoffs are not government results and surpluses in the budget, play is not Serbia's economic policy. What's the reality is that based on the results of economic reforms, fiscal consolidation we now have the conditions to lift austerity measures for which pensioners have borne the burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37643	The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37644	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Sinisa Mali, delivered to the MPs yesterday a beautiful biography and hid from citizens a number of corrupt jobs involving him for the last 15 years, especially prominently – the privatisation of Beopetrol, the sale of Alpha protein Vršac, the washing of half a million euros by selling and buying its companies, the destruction in Savala and the giving of the most expensive land for "Belgrade on Water", the purchase of 24 apartments in Bulgaria, the overpriced New Year's lighting, and, in the end, although not ultimately, a plagiarized doctorate. That is why I would especially like to point out, after yesterday's and today's discussions, that participation in only one of the above-mentioned corrupt actions disqualifies Sinisha Mali as a candidate for the role of Minister of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. Also, ignoring his participation in those actions by the government disqualifies Serbia as a regulated rule of law and as a law-abiding country. "Enough was enough" is against the elections of Synisha Mali as minister, but since the ruling majority of Mali will certainly be the new finance minister, issues that are most interested in the citizens of this country - what will be their salary and pension when sitting in the ministerial chair of Mr. Sinisha Mali? We ask the Prime Minister did Sinisha Mali, along with his candidacy, also deliver a plan of work that qualified him as the best minister of finance? Did he explain how he would charge and spend money from the budget? When it comes to pensions, we welcome the government of Serbia's intention to finally abolish the anti-constitutional Pension Reduction Act, but we underline that the DJB parliamentary group was still in the process of adopting it, with plenty of evidence and practical proposals, that the law is unconstitutional and illegal. We have tabled two legislative proposals concerning the return of kidnapped salaries and pensions, but the ruling majority has not put them on the Assembly's agenda so far. In 2014, the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, kidnapped 700,000 pensioners, 40% of them, on average 10% of pensions. In three-and-a-half years, as far as this law is concerned, the government has taken more than 1,000 euros from every pensioner with a pension of more than 1,500 euros and pensioners with a pension of over 45,000 dinars. These are all pensioners whose pensions are less than the average salary in Serbia. Enough to ask Sinisha Malo whether his program, which was not given us an insight, which was probably not even done, predicted that he would return pensions not only to the level of 2014, but would he give back to the pensioners everything that the Government of Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabić took from them in the last three and a half years? Can citizens be given the exact date when they will return to our pensioners kidnapped? Now something about wages. However, pensioners are not the only ones whose country has dragged its hand into their pocket. On the other hand, the hand and hat share subsidies to foreign investors of several thousand euros for cheap jobs and jobs that are characteristic of undeveloped African countries, rather than to a former industrially developed country like Serbia. The government of Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabić, whose close associate was Sinisa Mali, was kidnapped from the salaries of teachers, teachers, educators, bakers, surgeons, nurses, police officers, military, engineers and water workers, Elektrodistribution and other public services. You took more from them than you took from the pensioners. That's why they're all pushed to the edge of existence and naked survival and it lasts from 2014 to today. Against the law and against the constitution for three and a half years, you pushed your hand into the medical workers' wallet, which is why they leave Serbia every year. German language schools are working as a three-hour draxtor. They're full of doctors and nurses who are forced to leave because of your failed savings policy. Almost every fifth doctor plans to leave this unfortunate country. There's no one left to treat us. Teacher staff, who does the most important work, teaching our children and grandchildren, because of such a harrass, are pushed into even greater misery, which makes them feel humiliated and less motivated to work with children. Now you've remembered to blur the eyes and the military and the police by working to God's cheap apartments of 500 euros per square, just for them. I ask you what they're going to pay the loan war from when you cut their salaries and their diaries in 2014, that they don't even have bread and muffins when they go to the administrative line with Kosovo and Metohija? I ask the prime minister – will you return salaries to the level before the cuts to doctors, professors, military and police? When are you gonna do that and give them back what you took from them in the last three and a half years? We're looking for a clear and precise answer. A few more questions. The state continues to be in debt by taking loans and loans. Billions a year give foreign investors and domestic losers. Will Sinisha Mali continue to lead a devastating economic policy or will she propose different measures and what? How do you plan to resolve the losses of public enterprises and the problem of incompetent party management, which draws money from the company and throws into the party register of SNS and their own pockets? Will you also do what the former minister has promised to do and how to arrange the parafiscal burdens and to do what he has promised to do on many occasions – reduce the burdens on work? In the end, the key question. How does Mr. Mali think he's coping with corruption, which gnaws this country's tissue, when he himself is burdened with heavy suspicions and evidence that he's a longtime participant in corruption at the highest level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37645	Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37646	When we talk about pensions, they will be eight to 13.3% higher than in 2014, and five to 25%, so now, after the increase that was in the past year. Only for 5,000 benefits paid to pensioners last year was 8.85 billion dinars in the budget. When we talk about the increase, this increase that will be in the budget will be of 35 billion dinars. When you come and see that you don't have the means to pay off what basic donations are, social benefits, then you can't talk about raising pensions. You have to create an economic and investment framework for something like that. These insinuations to grant subsidies to privates, without giving pensioners, are at the level of those who actually run individual tabloids. You keep saying the same thing over and over again, just what those tabloids say. When you are so generous, take the 37 million dinars you took as a group of citizens and spent in the campaign, return to the budget, and help the people of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37647	The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37648	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, at the end of this debate, I will not comment on whether Mr. Sinisa Mali as a candidate for the finance minister has a real or false doctorate, nor on whether he owns 24 apartments on the Bulgarian coast, nor whether he is responsible for the destruction of the buildings in Herzegovia, nor whether he is responsible for the poor privatisation of Beopetrol, nor whether he is responsible for the bad agreement between Er Serbia and Etyhad, nor for the rudely expensive New Year's tree, nor whether he is responsible for the affair concerning the disputed water contract, fountains in Slavia, etc., because he is solely your burden and the ruling majority who will vote him today. I and the citizens of this country can only be interested in what is in the domain of the future finance minister, and that is what he came to this assembly today and today, and that is the work plan. Will he continue to do what his predecessors did in several previous governments? What concrete measures is he planning to take to see the improvement of citizens not only on television but in their bills? In Serbia, it is very bad and difficult to live. Of the numbers concerning surpluses and GDPs and all other foreigners, in general to the citizens unknown, citizens are certainly going through their heads. The presentation of these numbers in public seems so that each individual wonders – is there anything wrong with me only when everyone is so successful? How is it possible that the average salary of these imaginary 450 euros, and my fridge is empty, my passport is empty, my tank is empty, on the market rarely when I go and my wallet is empty? Does this mean that something is wrong with me when they say it well on TV – see what kind of well-being we are falling into? This is the most important ministry. No ministry matters how important the Ministry of Finance is. It says that this ministry must co-operate with all other ministries, but without good management of this ministry, about culture, let's just say, we can only talk about good health care and quality education, we can only hope for that. Don't let me count on it. When the most vulnerable individual in Serbia can live well and with dignity, then we can say for this country and for this society that it is prosperous. As long as the pockets of individuals are filled, and the laws in this house are adopted for their benefit, the fairy tale of living well in Serbia – a fairy tale. Whoever runs this ministry, i.e. He who is to run this ministry must not be godfather, friendly, brotherly, or any other relationship associated with these individuals, and should not adapt his decision to them. The philosophy of this government, and unfortunately many governments before this, in general, we don't like it. After every bad candidate comes even worse and this isn't just the Minister's case, this is the case at all levels. Such is the situation with mayors, municipal presidents, directors of public enterprises, representatives of independent institutions, and that I do not list any further. One general trend of degradation is present. People may not be hungry in Serbia, but certainly because of the great appetites of individuals, they are deprived of living a dignified life. With about 200 to 250 euros of monthly income, which is reality, citizens, as I said, may not be hungry but certainly do not travel, do not go to theatres, do not socialize, retreat within themselves and simply deal with mere survival. From the Prime Minister, I will not listen to the Minister of Finance in this house defend himself from the affair here. I want to hear the plan. Serbian citizens want to hear the plan -- how does it plan to help them lead a dignified and fulfilling life in accordance with the time in which they live? Unfortunately, we have remained deprived of many questions, among which we stand out as the main one. How does the future finance minister plan to reduce public debt, and what possible better credit recovery arrangements might he be telling us about? What does it plan for with regard to tax cuts and contributions, in particular to the lowest earnings, which would significantly increase employment and facilitate the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises? What does it plan, or does it seek to reduce and lift any parafiscal burdens that also burden micro, small and medium-sized enterprises? What he thinks about puking up VAT and why he's late in issuing a solution to the flat-rate lowlifes, that citizens who would orderly want to pay their tax settlements get within reasonable deadlines, which means no more than a year of what the situation is today. How does he feel about abolishing subsidies to foreigners and unfair competition? What kind of plan does he offer for public enterprises without it coming down to the mere employment of party listeners? We wanted to hear more about more concrete solutions for the most vulnerable social groups? Our parliamentary group will not support the election of Cynthia Malah for the finance minister due to lack of plans... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37649	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37650	Dear Prime Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, this session today was supposed to be some kind of handover of two ministers, former Mr. Vujovic and the future, as most will vote it. I think we should have heard the report and the former minister the way we should have heard the future minister's plan. So, two ministers who have different approaches first of all in, and we talked about it a little bit, the methodology of public debt accounting. I didn't get an answer to the last question, the Honorable Prime Minister -- how do you explain this very different approach? The current minister, your associate, whose results you are talking about, we can also talk about, confirmed on one issue also at the Finance Committee, and here he was sitting right where you are sitting, whether he supports the methodology of the Belgrade debt calculation of Mali and Vesic's account or what the Fiscal Council you were calling for and which you said is a credible institution, which I absolutely agree with, which said Belgrade's debt is not 1.2 billion euros, as you were saying. In an explanation, one of the key arguments for the Malah election for the finance minister, because he remedied the debt from 1.2 billion to half, which means that the city of Belgrade now owes 600 million, right, 600 million euros? Now the question is, if the former minister voted for you by this majority confirms the fiscal council's findings that Belgrade's debt amounted to 380m euros, what does that mean? Is this debt, then, increasing or reducing the debt of the city of Belgrade? That's one really serious question, and I think we deserve an answer to that question. The second thing that is heard in these six years, because we have been here in the Assembly for six years, and this is the next adoption of the December of this year's budget for 2019, none of these governments respected, and this is an opportunity for both you and the new minister, not respecting the law on the budgetary system in which, when adopting the budget, the Assembly would present a plan for achieving the legal level of public debt participation in GDP as much as 45% of what our law requires. It's a legal obligation. We haven't had it in six years, and I've given these suggestions five times to Minister Vujovic and previous ministers, but the law was not respected. So this is an invitation for both you and the future minister to come up with a clear plan, because I see that we are boasting about the level of Mastricht and coming to 60% of the public debt in GDP. However, we live and work and must respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia adopted by this Assembly, which is 45%. I want to talk about it. Otherwise, when we speak, I think Minister Vujovic deserves some sort of analysis for his work, I complained that he inherited the Ministry of Finance in the moment of 2014, when we were one step away from bankruptcy. When we talk about this step towards bankruptcy, which you mentioned, once again, in 2012, the then government and this coalition, this majority, inherited a public debt of 15 billion euros in July 2012. The end of the year ended with 17 or 17,5 billion euros. By 2014, it grew enormously and reached about 70 per cent of public debt participation in GDP. I think it's really weird and I think we should give a simple answer to the question. You say you inherited the state before bankruptcy for a total public debt of 15 billion euros, and now the state is financially stable with a total public debt of 24 billion euros. How is that possible? Come on, explain it simply. When we talk about the results, it should also be said that this very mandate of Mr Vujovic, your government and previous governments marked, above all, the reduction of pensions, which affected the reduction of deficits in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the reduction of transfers to local self-government, and we know what the state of finance is in local self-government and from the Fiscal Council Report, which speaks of some... (President: Comrade Ziric, bring the end. )......................................................................................................... from cities before bankruptcy. I think it's also the task of the new finance minister and yours to think about how the state of finance of local self-government will be improved, but also to return to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37651	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37652	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Madam Prime Minister, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants, the United Peasants' Party will support your proposal for a new finance minister, as supported by Alexander Vukic's proposal to make you prime minister in this government. The results of this government, the results of your work, confirm to us that the proposal you presented before this Assembly is a guarantee of the continuation of the continuity of a stable and good recovery of the Republic of Serbia. What we want, we want as many projects as possible such as "Meita" in Obrenovac, we want financial stability, we want to gradually, but surely raise the income of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because that is why we support the work of this government. We know it's a difficult and hard road, but we're ready to go on that road with you, because only something that's stable can be long-term and good for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37653	Do any of the other authorised representatives of the proposings or parliamentary groups want a word? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37654	Thank you, Chairman. Before I give the final word, I have to give some answers for the public, and perhaps for informing the prime minister and future finance minister, which is that on the Finance Committee, when there were stories about whether the correct methodology for the public debt budget was the answer of Mr Vujovic, the methodology was one. He still hasn't entered his debt qualification at all. What we had the opportunity to hear in public that Mr. Mali was talking about the total debt and Mr. Ciric was not present yesterday at the session to hear the answers about how the Belgrade City budget and the interest that were 363 million dinars, and 15 million for public enterprises, and 150 for local self-government and for giving pregnant and breast-feeding women who remained in debt, the city of Belgrade to individuals regardless of the public debt of 410 million, according to the Fiscal Council report, means the debt owed by the City of Belgrade to banks. So, when we talk about a public debt of 15 billion euros in 2012, not all those debts that were hidden in other positions, such as exchange rates in the People's Bank, such as court rulings for military pensioners, such as interest, do not end in one year, when it comes to economics. There are loans left to pay and those who come after you, and children who come after you, and grandchildren. Therefore, they have entrusted our children, grandchildren and our generations, and we have to repay those debts, and we need to train Serbia and the state's budget to function normally. When we talk about local self-government for the first time in this year, we have a surplus in the budget, and that's what we really need to welcome, because for the first time in fact we see the results of good economic policy and fiscal consolidation. And, what we were saying, for the first time, conditions have now been created for pensions to return to the level that was in 2014 and increase from 8% to 13.3%, but it introduces an increase mechanism, which will indeed reduce the relationship between the smallest and the largest pensions, precisely because of the establishment of a social balance. When we talk today about the proposal for the finance minister, I would like to thank Mrs. Ani Brnabic for recognising the qualities of Sinisha Mali, which we had the opportunity to hear both in his biography and in the results of her work as mayor of Belgrade. We can see that this is actually one result of the overall work of a man who obviously had opportunities and to study abroad and work abroad and to gain experience from different aspects of finance. The very fact that he graduated from State University, that he was the best student at the Faculty of Economics, that he mastered the same university, that he taught five courses in the area of finance qualified him for such a place. All of this concerning the creation of individual affairs, which are clearly paid, shows that certain centres of power were very interested in Mr. Sinisha Malia as a quality fit to destroy even before the possibility of them being elsewhere, not just mayor of the City of Belgrade. We've had our chance to hear today that he's the only man who's conducted the privatisation. Imagine, the civil servant is conducting a privatisation. I am now asking a question – what were the ministers and the government doing if a civil servant and director of a privatisation centre were in charge of the full privatisation of all companies in a state? Then we heard that the problem is the affair, the construction of fountains where individuals have the idea of pouring detergents. So then we heard that a doctorate in which a professor, who of course makes statements in "The Sandstone", is able to be accepted in society whether or not something is a fake, whether or not you have two decisions from committees, or a professor for universities and colleges where Mr. Sinisha Mali was doctored, then we come up with the obvious that all these affairs that are listed in public in certain tabloids are obviously funded by some people. We're interested here in what kind of people are paying for these affairs? There are funding NGOs such as "Yellow Duck" and many of them, who are trying to play political parties and talk to citizens around Belgrade, who are funded and believe me, these are millions of figures. The question arises: do they pay taxes in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but the question is also raised if it is the case of the Savamala, who received one of his court epilogues, were those who rented temporary facilities, and are members of the parties that are now represented here, did they pay taxes to the state to rent these premises that were in thousands of squares, which they used for many years and temporary character? So many questions are raised that are “affers. ” On the other hand, when you look at the fact that all these affairs have actually damaged Serbia's budget, and in the end, I can only say that as the SNS parliamentary group, we will be happy to vote for the candidate, Mr Sinisha Mali, for the finance minister, and I thank you for such a good proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37655	Right on line, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37656	Since you mentioned me by last name, I think it is important that we look into our eyes, since we were together on this Finance Committee when Mr Vujović was present and mentioned that there was only one methodology, it was the first answer to my question – which methodology of the public debt calculation for the City of Belgrade you accept, whether the methodology of Synichi Mali and Goran Vesic or the methodology of the Fiscal Council, because I will remind everyone else and the public, since we had a presentation here on this side, and now the arguments for selecting the new finance minister that this debt was 1.2 billion euros, and the fiscal advice claims the opposite, whether 380,390 or 400, mean, three times the least of what the other party presented, Mr Vujovic answered quite carefully to all of us – there is only one methodology. I reiterated the question and said – does this mean that it is the methodology of the Fiscal Council, he clearly answered yes. He's repeated that in the tide and in front of all of us, and we can also check it out from a stenogram. I think that's quite clear. We can continue to extend this conversation, and that was the question – would you, Mr Vujovic, like to see someone apply this public debt calculation methodology to the state of Serbia, which at that time was 24.5 billion and how much, according to that methodology, would be the total public debt of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Belgrade City of Belgrade's debt. He laughed and said he wouldn't want it, and he wouldn't want it. I think that's clear to you, too. It's clear to me, too. We've been there, and it can also be proved to be quite clear to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37657	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37658	According to this, the debt was never at all when we listen a little better to the explanation. Methodology is unique for the calculation of public debt and that's what we're talking about. So 410m euros is owed to banks by the budget, but now you explain to pregnant women, explain to social categories, explain to banks that needed to be paid over 650m euros in debt plus these 410, which remains as public debt. Are you saying that he didn't actually meet with those debts, Belgrade? Are you saying that you shouldn't have paid off all those debts to those categories that the City of Belgrade stayed along? Why did he stay in debt? Because someone ran such an irresponsible policy. So it's the same as when you're in debt, you have a housing loan, but as I don't recognize the debt I owe my mom, my dad, I owe 500 euros, I owe 10 grand to godmothers, I owe it to other categories. It just doesn't exist, that debt. All I owe is a housing loan, a month's war. No, the debts were total and Sinisha Mali was just talking about it. His job was so much harder. It's because someone like you is starting to think that we can politically explain it, that it doesn't actually exist, that we did the right thing, and that it's your fault that you made another 600 million debt to some other categories there, because you don't know, in fact, that you're returning the loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37659	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Ciric. Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37660	Thank you. I wanted to conclude this debate today and say that I have been trying for the past two days to explain in the best possible way concrete, evidence figures and economic indicators why I proposed Mr. Sinisha Malo to be Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I understand that some of these things simply the opposition does not want to accept and I am sorry for that, because I think it would be responsible in the national interest to start accepting some figures, especially those figures, results, successes that were not attributed to itself by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather objectively, quite critically, very strict international partners and international organisations. But, well, at this point, it's the political atmosphere in Serbia, and that's why I didn't want to go on answering at the end of this session the things I've given more than three answers because I thought that answer was, in fact, the people who are asking that question are not even interested at all. My conclusion in these two days of debate over the proposal to Sinisha Mali to be Minister of Finance is that against this proposal, first of all, those people who believe and think that the former city government has worked responsibly, so those people who say that it is responsible for having a historical deficit, historical debts, the greatest unemployment, the most expensive kindergartens, that it is responsible that you have the underground containers you paid, that you have subscribed, who immediately broke down, couldn't use them, and today we have a judicial dispute, which is responsible for having outstanding obligations to various social categories and which is responsible for having a Big Brother's house in Pioneer Park. It is, above all, what I heard in this debate, that Sinisha Mali was not a good mayor, that all my indicators that he was well and responsibly running the city register, which is why he could well and responsibly lead the register of the Republic of Serbia, did not accept because the former government had worked responsibly. Both are those who believe Serbia should be a society where everyone is guilty until it turns out they are innocent. They are also guilty when competent institutions say they are not, they are guilty because it simply isn't a good enough answer for them, those who don't understand the difference between public debt and total debt because they don't get into the total debt, I guess their parents' claims for kindergarten, their leftover maternity benefits, the unpaid social institutions' obligations, those who don't want to understand the difference between spending and investment and, in the end, to repeat from the beginning, those that the facts, the numbers, the projects, the results absolutely don't care and they won't want to hear from them. For this reason, I have prepared to read a paragraph of progress that the European Commission has made for Serbia, because of these MPs who, unfortunately, are no longer there, thank you to the rest of you who have stayed, but also for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for you of all other MPs, but finally, because of Cynthia Malia, because he is the future finance minister and should hear this. So, I quote the report on the progress of the European Commission – when it comes to economic criteria, Serbia has made good progress, the issue of the budget deficit has been resolved, the basic elements of growth are stable and macroeconomic stability is preserved, inflation is contained, and monetary policy has contributed to growth. The labour market conditions have further improved, the stability and impact of the financial sector, the increase in exports and investments continue to support economic activity. Between 2014 and 2017, the state budget came from a deficit of 6.6% of GDP to a surplus of 1.2% of GDP. The combination of macroeconomic policies was appropriate and brought macroeconomic stability and improved the most important economic indicators. The structure of the economy has improved and economic integration with the EU has further increased. The report said horizontal support for small and medium-sized enterprises particularly active in the area of construction, retail and tourism services has increased. The government extended the activities of the programme, in 2016 as a year of entrepreneurship, for a decade, providing a number of programmes for financial and non-financial assistance to this sector. I would like to tell this to the future minister that I expect it to work so that all these successes can be maintained and to help the additional team of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to achieve much more than these successes, so that citizens of the Republic of Serbia can live as well as possible every day. First of all, the MPs of the SNS, but then certainly the entire ruling coalition, I want to thank you for your continued support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without you, we certainly would not have succeeded in doing what we are doing and I want to thank you for your willingness to hear my arguments about Sinisha Mali and for supporting him as finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37661	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the motion for a candidate for a member of the Government. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the only item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 270(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule 29th of May 2018, starting at 1600 hours as a day for voting on the proposal of a candidate for a member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37662	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. MPs, please sit in your seats, since the quorum is in progress. I can't determine the quorum if he keeps inserting his own card. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 154 MPs are present in the hall, and that we can continue our work. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a proposal to elect a member of the Government, before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 270(2). The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly, decides on a proposal to elect a member of the Government as a whole. I suggest the National Assembly on a proposal to elect a member of the government to vote publicly. I am putting the motion to put the National Assembly on a proposal to elect a member of the government to vote publicly. I conclude the vote: for – 161 MPs, against – two, abstention – no one voted 12 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that a proposal to elect a member of the government should be made public. I'm putting on a motion to elect Sinisha Mali as finance minister. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I ask the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly to make the call of the Members of the People by the alphabetical order of the last name and record their, or our statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37663	Alexic Miroslav – absent Arsic Veroljub – for Atlagic Prof. Dr. Marko – for Babic prim. Dr Vlado – for Bajatović Dusan – for Banac Groždan - for Barišić Dr Dragan – for Bauer Dr Ivan – for Bačevac Dr Muamer – for Belačić Aleksandra - absent Bečić Mr Igor – for Birmančević Boban – for Bićin Milen – for Bojanović Zoran – for Božić Dubravko – against Borković Dušan – for Broz Josip – for Vužinović – for Buljavić Slavić – for Veljković Dragan – for Veljković Jelisaveta – for Vesović – against Vidović – against Vlahović – for Vujan Milimir – for Vužjan Vojšavić – for Veljković Žažar Žač – for Veljković Žažaža Žažar – for Veljković Djavić – for Veljković Djavić Djavović – for Veljković Djavović – for Veljković – for Veljković Djakov Jeljan Djavović – for Veš – for V. Dr Mihailo – for Jolović Nikola – for Judovic Aleksandar – for Karanac Jasmina – for Karadžić Ana – for Karić Dragomir – absent Karić Milanka – absent Knezevic Blaža – for Knezevic Prof. Dr Milan – for Kovac Elvir – for Kovacević Borisav – for Kovacevic Goran – for Kovačević Studenka – for Komlenski Đorđe – for Komirović Stanija – for Konstantinović Nenad – absent Korać Dr Zarko – absent Kosanić Đorđe – for Kostic Dragan – for Kostic Mr Ivan – absent Kostić Nada – against Kostić Radmilo – for Krivnikapić prim. Dr Milovan – for Krlić Mirko – for Lazani Miroslav – absent Lazić Nada – against Lakatoš Ljibuša – for Lkatić Dr Darko – for Lapčević Milan – absent Linta Miodrag – for Lukić Mladen – for Ljubenović Tomislav – against Majkić Aleksandra – for Malušić Ljiljana – for Mandić Momčilo – absent Manojlović Ivan – for Maraš Marjan – for Marinković Prof. Dr Vladimir – for Marjanović Vesna – absent Markić Miroslav – absent Marković Aleksandar – for Marković Dragan – for Marković Dragan – for Martinović for Dr Aleksandar – for Matović Veroljub – for Macur Tatjan – against Mać Puzić Maja – for Mijailović – for Mijavić - for Mijatović for Milanović – for Milov Zamić for Miraž – Zamić for Mira – Zamić Dr Branimir – for Rašković Ivić Dr Sanda – against Repac Dr Desanka – for Ristic Marina – against Ristic Slaviš – absent Rističević Marijan – for Savić Nikola – against Savnić Dragan – for Stamenković Branka – against Stanković Zdravko – absent Stanković Đurić Miroslav – absent Stevanovic Aleksandar – absent Stevanovic Dr Ana – against Stevanovic Veroljub – absent Stević Zvonimir – for Stojadnović Dr. Za Stojmir – for Stojmirović Dušica – for Tomić – for Tomović – for Stošić Mražović Žaljar – for Žaljko – for Tarbuk Duško – for Tepić Marinika – for Tepić Marija – odstavna Tomjan Damnović – for Tomić – for Tomić – for Tomić – for Tobić Zakšović – for Božović – for Božar Kražović Zak.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-29-0.u37664	Since we made the vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote, and just to wait a minute, two, for the deputy secretary general to collect the results. [[after breaks]] Dear Members, allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 184 MPs who joined the vote to elect a member of the government, 154 MPs voted against the proposal, there were 30 MPs, abstentioned MPs were not and did not want to vote – zero MPs. Since 154 MPs voted for a proposal to elect a member of the government, representing most of the total number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Government has chosen Sinisha Mali as finance minister. Allow me to congratulate Minister Sinisha Malo in his election as a member of the government on your behalf. National MP Balša Bozovic said at a session on 28 March 2018 at 15 hours and 34 minutes, he pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – three abstentions – there are no, 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. Also, MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 29 May 2018 at 11pm and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – five, abstention – one, did not vote 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on May 29th this year at 11am and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: 155 MPs did not vote for – 11, against – six, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the member of the Government, Sinisha Mali, to comply with Article 16(2). The Government Act approaches the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and a member of the Government repeats it. ) "I pledge my allegiance to the Republic of Serbia and to my honor, to honor the Constitution and the law, that the government's duty will be done knowingly, responsibly and committed and committed to the preservation of Kosovos and metaphors within the Republic of Serbia". I'm asking the Minister of Finance to sign and give me the text of the oath. I congratulate you once again on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on my personal behalf. Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, given that today, 29 May 2018, the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ends, please listen together to the anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. ) Since the National Assembly has carried out its consideration and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 15th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Thank you.
