ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-26-0.u47840	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, and that we can move to the vote and decide on the items of the second session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2018. I put the draft law on construction products to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-26-0.u47841	I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP, against – no one, abstention – has voted 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 136. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 136. I find the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 135. I find the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – no one, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 134. I find the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – no one, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – no one, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – no one, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – no one, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – no one, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – no one, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – no one, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 135 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 135 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 135 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against one, has voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Danica Bukvic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Ljubinko Rakonjac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MPplatmir Stevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 136 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 136 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Vesna Ivkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 136 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Marjana Marash submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 135 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Daniel Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 134 Messengers for—two against—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 137 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Broz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 137 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 137 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 137 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 137 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Stanija Krompirovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mladan Lukic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – no one; the abstentions – none, no vote - 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – no one; the abstentions – none, no vote - 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – no one; with abstention – there is no, no vote - 136. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – four; against – none; the abstentions – none, no votes - 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three; against – no one; the abstentions – none, no vote - 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mahailo Jokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two; against – none; the abstentions – none, they did not vote - 136. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milenka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two; against – none; the abstentions – none, they did not vote - 136. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one; against – none; the abstentions – none, no vote - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two; against – none; the abstentions – none, they did not vote - 136. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – four; against – none; the abstentions – none, no votes - 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – four; against – none; the abstentions – none, no votes - 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three; against – no one; the abstentions – none, no vote - 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five; against – none; the abstentions – none, they did not vote - 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven; against—no one; the abstentioned—there is no, no vote - 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – four; against – none; the abstentions – none, no votes - 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Kenezevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 131 for – seven against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Marjana Marash, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ivana Dinic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Djordje Milicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPplatimir Stevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Srdjan Nogo submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Dr Daniela Stojadinovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Danica Bukvic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Dr Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – for – one who has not voted – 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted - 140. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted - 137. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted - 140. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted - 140. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted - 140. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 140. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted – 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions – has, has not voted - 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – 138 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 135 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstentions for two and two, and there was no one who voted 137 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions for four people. 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstentions for two and two, and there was no one who voted 137 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 137 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 137 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 137 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 137 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Aleksandra Jevtic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 137 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 135 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 135 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 137 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Nikola Savic and MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstentions for two and two, and there was no one who voted 137 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-26-0.u47842	I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić I am concluding the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Right-wing Repac. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting to vote the amendments on the 4th by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the 4th floor by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the fourth floor to be tabled by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the fourth floor table by MP Bojan Torbic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the 4th vote by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the 4th vote by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Majkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to the 4th vote tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 4th vote tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting to vote the amendments on the 4th by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the 4th vote, which was submitted by the MP-in-law. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the 4th vote by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 4th vote, which was tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 7 which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 10th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 11th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 14, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 15, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 16th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 17th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 22, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 24 which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 25th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 26th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 27th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 29th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 30th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 31, which were tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 33, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 34, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 35, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 36, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 37, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 38, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 39, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 41, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 42, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 43, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 44, which was tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 45, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 46, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 47th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 48th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 49, which was tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 51, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 52, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 54, which has been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 55th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 56th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 57th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 58th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 59th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 60, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 61, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 62nd vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 63rd vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 63rd vote tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 63rd vote tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 64th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 64, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 65th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 65, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 66, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 67th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 67, which was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 68th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 69th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 71, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above Articles 72 and 72 of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic as of 22 October 2018. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the amendments have not been made known. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment in the basic text is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and the amendments have not been made known. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – none, abstention – none, of the 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. I put the amendments to article 72, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 73, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 74, which were tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on construction products in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – none, abstention – none, of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the draft law on construction products. We're moving on to the decision-making process. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – none, abstention – none, of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Dinic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 15, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was submitted by MP Dijana Vukomanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 33, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 36, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 37, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 39, which have been tabled by five Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which has been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 45, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the 45th vote by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 50 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 51, which was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 53, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 56 tabled by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 58th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 58 tabled by MP Dijana Vukomanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 59th vote, which was tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 63rd vote, which was tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 71 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 73, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 80, which was tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 84, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic, MP Dijana Vukomanovic and together by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 84, which was tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 84, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 85, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 86 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 86, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 87 tabled by MP Dijana Vukomanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 87, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 87, which was tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 87, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 87 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 93, which was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 105, which was tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 106, which was tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 108th vote, which was tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 110th vote by MP Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – two abstentions – there is no, of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law of Objects, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – two abstentions – there are no, of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to put the amendment to the vote on Article 1 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Verica Radet, five MPs from Parliament's Group of Independent Members and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group enough. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 2 which, in the same text, has been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Members and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the parliamentary group enough. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 3 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the parliamentary group enough. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 4 which, in the same text, was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 5, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, five MPs from the Parliament group of Members and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs of the parliamentary group, enough has been enough. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 6 which, in the same text, were tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 7 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Nikola Savic, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 8 which, in the same text, were tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 9 which, in the same text, were tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the parliamentary group enough. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 10, which, in the same text, was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and five MPs from the Parliament group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 11 which, in the same text, was submitted by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the Parliament group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 12, which, in the same text, was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and five MPs from the Parliament group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 13 which, in the same text, were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Members, the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the five MPs of the Parliament group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 14 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 15, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Alexander Seselj, five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members Club and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 16 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Petar Jojic, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 17, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 18, which, in the same text, was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 19, which was submitted in the same text by MP Sreto Peric, five MPs from Parliament's Group of Independent Members and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 20, which, in the same text, was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and five MPs from the Parliament group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 21, which, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, five MPs from the parliamentary group of the Independent Members' Club and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 21, which have been tabled by five MPs of the parliamentary group, enough has been enough. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 22, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic, five MPs from Parliament's Group of Deputies and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and five MPs from the Parliament group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 23, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 24, which, in the same text, was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 24 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group enough. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 25, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 26, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Alexander Seselj, five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members Club and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 27, which, in the same text, was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 28, which, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Verica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 29, which, in the same text, was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 30, which, in the same text, was submitted by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 31, which, in the same text, was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting on the vote of the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Law of Objects, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, v – two, with abstentions, of a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law of Objects. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – one, the abstentioned, of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendment to Article 1 which was submitted to the same text by the MP of the People's Republic of Rade and by the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for the amendment on Article 2 which was submitted to the same text by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 3 which was submitted to the same text by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendment to Article 5, which was submitted to the same text by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 7 which was submitted to the same text by MP Tomislav LJubenović and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for the amendment on Article 8 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 9 which was submitted to the same text by the MP of the People's Republic of Rade and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 10, which was submitted to the same text by MP Marina Rikstic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 11th floor of the same text by MP Petar Jojic and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 12, which was submitted to the same text by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 13 which was submitted to the same text by MP Nemanja Sarovic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 14 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 15, which was submitted to the same text by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and by the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 16 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the SDS-NS Group of Members of Parliament. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 17, which was submitted to the same text by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 18, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 19, which was submitted to the same text by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment on the 20th floor, which was submitted to the same text by MP Nemanja Sarovic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment on the 21st floor, which was tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment on the 22nd floor, which was submitted to the same text by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 23, which was submitted to the same text by MP Tomislav LJubenović and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 24, which was submitted to the same text by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 25, which was submitted to the same text by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 26, which was submitted to the same text by MP Zoran Despotovic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 27, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 28, which was submitted to the same text by Parliamentarian Verica Radet and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 29, which was submitted to the same text by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 30, which was tabled by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 31, which was submitted to the same text by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and by the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to a vote on Article 32, which was submitted to the same text by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 33, which was submitted to the same text by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs of the SDS-NS Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 34, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 35, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 36, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 37, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 38, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 39, which, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on the 40th, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marina Ristic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 41, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 42, which, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 43, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 44, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 45, which, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 46, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 47, which was submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 48, which was submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 49, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 50, which was submitted in the same text by MP Nemanja Sarovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 51, which was submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 52, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 53, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 54, which, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 55, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 56, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 57, which, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 58, which, in the same text, was tabled by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 59, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 60, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 61, which, in the same text, was tabled by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 62, which, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 63, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to vote on Article 64, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – no one, abstention – one, a total - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, abstention – one, a total - 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 1 which, in the same text, was tabled by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 2 which, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 3, which was submitted in the same text by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 4 submitted in the same text by MP Sreto Peric and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 5, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 6 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 7 submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, in the same text. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 8th vote, which was submitted in the same text by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 9, which was submitted in the same text by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 10, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marina Ristic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 11th vote, which was tabled in the same text by MP Petar Jojic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 12. by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, in the same text. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 13 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 14 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 15, which, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 16 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 17, which was submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 18, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 19, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 20, which was submitted in the same text by MP Nemanja Sarovic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 21, which, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 22, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am voting on the amendment to Article 23, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 24 which, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments are not accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 25, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 26, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 27, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 28, which, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 29, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 30, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 31, which, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, abstentioned – one of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, abstentioned – one of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 7 which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 10th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 11th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 14, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 15, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 16th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 17th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 22, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 24 which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 25th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 26th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 27th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport, in general. I am concluding the vote: for – 136, against – no one, abstention – one, of a total of 141. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – none, abstention – one, of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which were tabled in the same text by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the five MPs of the Free Members. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 7 which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 7, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 10th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 11th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 13 that have been tabled jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 14, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 14 which have been tabled by five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote on Article 15, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 16th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 16 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 17th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 22, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 24 which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 25th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 26th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 27th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 29th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 30th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 31, which were tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 33, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 34, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 35, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 36, which was tabled in the same text by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 37, which was tabled in the same text by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 38, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 39, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no one, abstentioned – one, of a total of 138. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Belongance and entering a vessel in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 132, v – none, abstention – one, of a total of 138. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Belonging and entering a vessel, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Belongance and the registration of vessels. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on maritime navigation in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation. As we now move to a decision on the draft law on the validation of international agreements, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to that proposal of the law, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on this bill. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Economic and Technical Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary in the area of infrastructure projects, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Before we move on to a decision on the motion for a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, is doing most of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of Serbia's board, which has taken the parliamentary SNS as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – one, there is no abstention, of a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, following an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request without the right to explain that, without a search, the National Assembly should be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Marija Janjušević, at a session of 17 October 2018, at 13 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session of 17 October 2018, at 13 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. National MP Maja Vidinovic, at a session of 17 October 2018, at 15 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that those members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session of 17 October 2018, at 16 hours and three minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. National MP Miladin Ševarlic, at a session of 17 October 2018, at 16 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session of 18 October 2018, at 12 hours and six minutes, pointed to injuries of members 107 and 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that those members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 18 October 2018, at 12 hours and 54 minutes, pointed to the injuries of members 127 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that those members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session of 18 October 2018, at 12 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on 18 October 2018, at 13 hours and four minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session of 22 October 2018, at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. National MP Bosko Obradović, at a session of 22 October 2018, at 12 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. National MP Maja Vidinović, at a session of 22 October 2018, at 16 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that those members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session of 23 October 2018, at 12 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 106 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that those members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session of 24 October 2018, at 16 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 112 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that those members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session of 25 October 2018, at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018.
