ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34477	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Danica Bukvic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Miletic Mihajlović, Dr. Predrag Jelenković, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković and Balša Bozovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the occasion of the search in detail on the Third Point of the Agenda – the Proposal for a Law on Military Education, are invited to attend: Alexander Vulin, Minister of Defence, Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs, Aleksandar Zivkovic and Mr Bojan Jocic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Dr Nenad Miloradović, Deputy Minister of Material Resources at the Ministry of Defence, Milan Mojsilović, Deputy Minister of Defence, Defence Minister of Defence, Zoran Lazic, Secretary General Mladen Vurun, Rector of Defence, Brigadier General Mile Jelić, Head of Staff at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Luka Jovanovic, Head of the Department of Defence, General Mladen Kišić, General of Defence and Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue the search in detail on the Third Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Military Education. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 13 of the agenda. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34478	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, gentlemen of the Parliament, my amendment refers to the fact that education security certainly brings progress to the Republic of Serbia, but that it must always be taken care of Serbs in the region, and I want to point out this opportunity in particular. The near and distant past teaches us that caring for our people no matter what part of the planet we live on is necessary. Special concern for Serbs in the region who have remained out of the queen's womb through various historical circumstances, but are certainly part of the same national and state tissue, and I think we absolutely agree. Well, what is that binding tissue that makes us one people? What is it that all the Serbs of the world connect? Someone will say that language, unfortunately we are not a people who are extremely pedantic in it. Many third-generation Serbs no longer speak or use their own language, and that does not make them members of their nation. Only the Cyrillic letter has been compromised in the queen, and it needs to be fought for. Someone will say it's faith, and faith is only somewhat, but we do not give up Serbs who are other religions, as well as Serb atheists, and they are part of the community, part of the people, an inalienable part of the nation and the state. All the Serbs of the world wherever they live, from New York to New Zealand, have the same memory. They remember one field and remember one battle. They remember a field they've never seen and they remember a battle they didn't participate in. Kosovo's field and Kosovo's battle are our morals and ethical code. And, when I say must code, then, Mr. Minister, you have every right to what you said yesterday and what's very important when it comes to the moral return of morality to the ranks of our army, because those who were forced out of the army didn't want to destroy the army but the entire nation, that is the goal, and that is why this morality is so important and so necessary. It is your role and your responsibility in the education and training of new military personnel, education of pride, tradition, but also morals. Respecting your own history and tradition is not a burden, although many will say so, it is the foothold of civil consciousness and freedom. There is no greater civil consciousness and freedom from tradition and respect for its tradition. But we have negative balances when we mention our rights in the environment, we are often not only Serbs but also great Serbs. When we ask the question of our unique state, then we're almost fascists to some even here. Adherence to Vojvodina autonomy and the self-called state of Kosovo, some call Europeanism. Adherence to the state of Serbia, nationalism. That's what surrounds us. These are the truths we must fight daily, especially by education and education. All this tells you about the sudden need not to make historical reruns that bring us negative balances, and we've had enough of these balance sheets. We must understand that human beings will remain when we guard our tradition, preserve our culture and, of course, protect our community. I will vote for this law whether my amendment is accepted or not, because I am fully convinced that this Ministry and this army will guard and preserve the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34479	Thank you, colleague Krlic. By amendment, MP Ljubisa Stoimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34480	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is very clear that the process of education is the most important process in the development of each country, so is ours. Plato still said in ancient Greece – if the shoemaker doesn't do his job well, there won't be much damage to the state, only the Athenians will go barefoot, but if those who train young people don't do their job well, then there will be generations of incompetent, illiterate and married people who will ruin the country. We need to get a message out of this and realize that the educational process is a process to which we need to pay great attention. The education process in the military must be a guide for the whole country. Why? Because all the innovations, all the innovations, all the things that started the world came from the research that was done for the needs of the military and the military. In addition to the educational process, I see that science is not mentioned here, but I believe that you will work on making the institutes that the Army once had and that were superior in the future even better and even more quality. I can give you a little recommendation. When you further develop this educational process, look at Tesla's doctrine. Nikola Tesla also said in 1920 – if we want to create an educational process as it should, in every country, and even humanity in general, we have to lead on three aspects of the account. One is social, the other is moral, and the third is spiritual. Take a good look at that doctrine and try to create an education system in the Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34481	Thank you, colleague Stojmirovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34482	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected military ministers Mr. Vulin, respected officers and representatives of security services, military education directly affects not only the modernisation of Serbia's Army, but also the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia as a whole, which is represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic, most of the honourable MPs in this high home of the National Assembly and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear ministers with associates, our military education should especially plan for moral education, and especially to highlight its main task – patriotism and patriotism, which is one of the main traditional heritage of the Serbian Army for centuries. The former regime's party has kicked out of the high school and military academy programmes moral education under the pressure of the NATO Pact and domestic NATO dusters. Had Nenad Canak, a people known as Gicoya, had patriotic feelings, would not have said in 5.3. in 2017, I quote "I am ready to recognise Kosovo and Metohija independence". Or, if Cedomir Jovanovic, in a people called Ceda Calculator, had at least a little patriotic education, he would not have said in 29.9. 2015 "The state of Kosovo is an irrevocable process that continues to ignore only irresponsible politicians." Or, if the failed NATO presidential candidate Sasa Jankovic, in a people known as Sala Prangi, had at least a minimum patriotic education, would not have said "I advocate Kosovo's independence and the UN chair". That is why, gentlemen officers and Mr. Minister, respected MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, and representatives of the BIA, is a very important moral education so that no more moral freaks or characters appear in the Serbian people and work to break our country. Thank you, Mr. Minister of Military Vulina and Mr. former Minister Bratislava Gasic and Commander-in-chief Alexander Vukic, for restoring the pride and honor of the Serb Army, which she has had for centuries. That is why this amendment is very important, which is important in this military training, because without military training there is no army of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34483	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34484	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. The speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, which the previous speaker did not do. I also advertise Article 108. O order at the session is the old president of the National Assembly, i.e. You're in this situation. Did you really not hear the ugly names of the previous speaker calling not MPs from the DS parliamentary group, but other colleagues from other parliamentary groups? Do you really want to convince us that you have to stay silent on this or that you haven't heard? Here, they heard everyone here and I'm really glad that these past five days of the session we have these serious and responsible people from the Serbian Army who can see the double arches and see how you as chairman, not personally you, but every chairman behaves. We do not want to take advantage of that opportunity now, so that we call the representatives of the opposition such names, because we want to show the difference between us and them, but I ask you to respond to this and not allow such a situation, because surely you would not be pleased and you would take away the word from any MP of the opposition if you react in the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34485	My colleague Milojic, it is legitimate for the MP to propose an amendment and explain how he feels it should be. A colleague Atlagic had one broader context for the interpretation of the amendments. He spoke of the importance and importance of the amendment he proposed and tried to convince ministry representatives to accept his amendment, and the accent was putting... (Radoslav Milojic: So we can use the singer's edge and Vulin's deserter? ) I did not realize that he addressed such ugly names as your legitimate right to indicate that the Rules of Procedure had been injured and whether or not the Rules of Procedure had been injured will be decided by the Assembly in the day of the vote. Please be there when the Assembly decides, and together we will judge whether I personally hurt the Rules of Procedure or not. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you, colleague Milojičić. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34486	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I understand the excitement of fellow Atlagic. Today is the anniversary of Joseph Broz’s death, so he may be a little excited as a former communist. We just heard here, and I'm following and I've tried historically to track the Army from Grol and Davidovic to the Heineken, from Pekic to the Heineken. As president of the People's Peasants' Party, I must say that peasants always loved the Army before it became a stand. You'd all walk past Karajorgia. He calls, he says, that with the torment of the peasant people's army about their bread, as they have said, they have won statehood both as virtues of that state and as creators of the country peasants still love the army, and the army loves peasants. Our greatest officers, the bravest, the wisest have come from the village and with this in connection to our obligation as our ancestors once bought guns to create a state at their expense, so is our obligation to modernise our army. It is our obligation for farmers to create a material basis for modernising our military through the development of agriculture, through the development of the processing industry and renewable energy. We have no doubt in courage. With good equipment, with good technique, I believe in the invincibility of our army. Our army, first of all, should deter possible opponents from the forces they think to apply to us. I, of course, believe in the military minister and I don't think he'll be ordering expensive suits from Tajji. I believe this authority will invest in the Army, not invest in the military minister, as the previous government did. I call upon the previous government of the people's unity, as it was in 1815, during the Second World Uprising. I want to tell them that other people's interest is not our interest, that we are not divided against our interests by those who do it for their own interests, that they do not share us, because if they divide us, in conflict with themselves, we will surely lose us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34487	Thank you, colleague Rističević. By amendment, colleague Atlagic? Please, according to the amendment, MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34488	Here, according to the amendment, even though I could have made a difference. I support this amendment by Mr. Risticevic, because I think military education is very important for the overall development of our economic, so if you want political development, because without military education there is no education in general at all. Now that his colleague Risticevic mentioned it, Joseph Broz Tito invested a lot in the military. And during his time, our army was one of the best three armies in Europe as you know. In the end, Mr. Vice President, just one sentence on the title note. I didn't make up the names, Mr. Vice President, I made up the press and the people. Here's just one sentence, May 31st, 2006 -- a prominent newspaper -- the bankruptcy king Doliao, Saša Prangi, on January 21st, 2011 -- Sasa Prangi made a statement on the alleged murder of Predrag Gojkovic. Now I could quote him 88 times for Sasha Prangi, if he wants, I don't have a problem, because you know me very well, by dates, and for the king of bankruptcy and others - 16 times in just a year. I didn't give those names, they're famous in both the press and the editors of these major papers and the press. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34489	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34490	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, dear colleagues, the Serbian Army is again again after a long time, the institution that Serbian citizens most believe in and several reasons are in favour of this claim. A few days ago we heard a really good news and I would say the most important news for our citizens, which is that the growth of our GDP in the first quarter of 2018 is 4.5% above all expectations and that is something that is very important for our citizens, but also for all the representatives of the military, because the growth of our economy is growing and strengthening our army, but not with the goal of any threat, but only that through the strengthening of defensive capacities it is always able to defend its people. Serbia's military co-operates with the world's largest armies, whether they are in the West, whether they are in the east, while at the same time manages to preserve its military neutrality. Serbia's reputation is also growing in the world, as Serbia, in my opinion, is the only country in the region that is truly fighting for peace and stability. In other words, we're working on making our army ready for war, but we're working even harder to keep the war from happening. How much Serbia's Army and what authority it has amongst citizens, it also speaks well of how young people want to enroll the Military Academy and the Military High School. Our army has always been able to boast through history of educated personnel, and so I think it is very important that we adopt this law that changes the rules that are over 20 years old and is a necessary step towards harmonising the work of military-school institutions with existing laws in the field of education, and that is why I will support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34491	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34492	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, gentlemen generals, officers, the draft law on military education, which you have submitted, is excellent, as well as the other laws of this set of defence and security laws. The debate so far has shown that, in essence, there are no major objections to this bill. That's why I'm very pleased and I'm going to vote for him anyway. The law on military education should create conditions for military education to develop over a period when the Republic of Serbia is on the path of European integration and when it wants to continue its military neutrality. Military academy is a brand, military school in Serbia is a brand. That brand should certainly be kept and brought to an even higher level. There is no country in a closer and wider environment with such a military tradition, a tradition of military education and such military experience. There's no country with that kind of scientific teaching staff in military school. Military education in our military-school institutions, in addition to education and training, also provides the possibility of military-professional training not only for our own, but also for foreign citizens. Due to the high reputation of the Serbian Army and military education in our military-school institutions, the coming period will increase, certainly, the interest and foreign citizens to use the possibility of military training in our high military-professional institutions as part of inter-army cooperation and to use the possibility of training that is certainly related to the export of our military equipment and weapons through the dedicated industry. That is why this law is significant because it also allows for such cooperation, which should certainly be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34493	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34494	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to be in Article 1. The bill adds attitude 3 – military education provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to social equality. Dear fellow Members of the People, while the debate lasted in principle, we had the opportunity to hear from some opposition MPs, whom I believe are competent to speak on this subject, because it is, above all, a profession, that there are no major objections to the proposal for a law on military education, or that there are no fundamental remarks, which was confirmed yesterday as we spoke in the amendments. Good military education is a pillar of a strong army. What we had the opportunity to hear, while the debate was in principle, from the minister is how much was invested in the Military Academy, how much was invested in the reconstruction of the Military High School, in military equipment, in food for the military. By investing in military education we invest in the military and create stronger Serbia and my amendment goes that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34495	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Manojlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34496	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honorary gentleman officers, representatives of the BIA, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment further defines Article 1. It's a bill of law. Given that the workforce represents economic resources in its own way, for this reason I have submitted this amendment, and I have just wanted to point out to it that the more adequate trained army and raising standards in a certain way and initiated, but also activates the development of other parts of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. There have been many examples in our country that since the army began to perfect itself, and what came out of that band that there can be no well-developed army if the state's economy is not strong and vice versa, so they have gained conditions to develop, that is. With the recovery of the Army of the Republic of Serbia today, we have other business entities that are in motion, such as Jumka from Vranja, where Mr. Bratislav Gasic, while Minister of Defence, started this with the huge support of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic and the working engagement of the director of Jumko, today Jumko is involved in the system, so he produces uniforms for our soldiers. There have been numerous objections during this debate, and some have, as a result, resented why in the title of the bill itself, I guess in their claim that they were successful in making the amendments, so they remembered that this law was perfected by a change of title, so they added that it was missing, that it was a proposal for a law on military education and education. I'd just like to add that, when they didn't mind that in the education system, where education was mentioned, they don't mention it once during the debate, and this here bothers them, that really the proposal for a law on military education, adding and training would be a kind of pleonasm in the sense that the members of the Army are sufficiently educated. Also, I would like to thank the government's representatives for their very detailed explanation and mentioning several times the facts that opposition representatives have been very consciously trying to return to their questions. I just want there to be something that I remembered yesterday, that there's a saying that it means a stupid question to a smart man, and it doesn't mean anything to a stupid man or a smart answer. Also, the development of the military has led the first five-year-old in Triestenik and only 3.5m euros have been invested in the dedicated industry this year. Total in 2018, the plan is to invest almost 40m euros in the development of the dedicated industry. Those who have given themselves the right here, who have just destroyed the First Five-year-old in Triestenik, so today, without any shame, they appear to be forming some survey committees, only to say that in 2012, workers in the First Five-years from Triestenik in the dedicated industry barely paid 20% of their salary, and that today the dedicated industry in Triestenik "The First Five-year-old" regularly pays salaries, that she has hired 100 new workers and plans to employ 150 new workers this year. I hope that by completing this system of education, the Serbian Army will be more ready to respond to many tasks, to respond to the challenges, but at the same time in that relationship between the state's economy, where its security and stability are guaranteed, we will attract even more foreign investors, while the Republic of Serbia is able and ready to further modernise and modernise its army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34497	Thank you. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34498	Thank you, Chairman. What makes it the basis of the security of a country on an international scale is certainly an army. The army of the Republic of Serbia is such a serious resistor and such a headquarters in society that it has always been approached with special pride and drink. In a conversation with many members of the Army and those who only served the military, I heard the beginning of a sentence several times when I was in the army, and I get the impression that it was the central part of someone's life, that it was the way of living and that there was one whole life going on. In addition to that video of participation in the bravest of calls, but certainly one of the most honorable, I think it is very important to place the accent on the professional service of the military and its people. When we talk about education, it is necessary to focus our interest on military education and on the parallel discussion of secondary military schools, as well as high-level military institutions. And how important it is that education be at the highest possible level in the Republika Srpska Army. The quality of our relationship with their profession affects the security of our country, but also the stability of politics and economy in every sense. It is therefore necessary to understand how much defence, education and economy are linked. I submit this amendment which will certainly be complemented by Article 1 of this Act. In the end, I would only take the opportunity, given that today is the Day of the Guard of the Serbian Army, to congratulate the members of this unit on their day. Good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34499	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34500	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, military education is specific to the education system in Serbia and is of great importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia. It is also in line with the education system, relating to the education and training of professional members of Serbia's military, civil servants, as well as people from the public for performing jobs from the defence ministry's authority, as well as the development of scientific and research personnel for Serbia's military needs. There is also co-operation between the University of Nis and the Ministry of Defence. More specifically, Niski University will take over part of the Philip Kljajic barracks in Nis where the IT sector will develop. In addition to the Ministry of Defence and the City of Nis as a unit of local self-government, this project was supported by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. There are fewer and fewer places in universities attended by IT students due to great interest. This is also in line with the government's action plan for the development of the IT sector. So, this kind of project and this idea, and the plan is to plot the property in that location so that this idea can be fully realized. By placing objects in office of the university, multiple benefits are being achieved, the outflow of young, high-quality personnel who will be educated in our country, who will remain in our country, because in this way the conditions for education are being improved, the development of the IT sector, the chances of selling surrounding land and investing in this part of the town of Nis are increasing. Apart from Nis, parts of the barracks or some military facilities will be taken over by a higher school institution in both Novi Sad and Kragujevac, which speaks of the large role of the Ministry of Defence in the development of education in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34501	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34502	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, my amendment stresses the need to refer to economic potentials and their exploitation in this law for the overall development of the country, and Serbia's defence industry has become a significant economic branch of Serbia after many years which brings growing funds. By April this year, 185 companies dealing with arms and equipment exports were registered in Serbia, and when we talk about the realisation of issued licences, there is significant growth. This year, exports are expected to be significantly higher than $300m. The plants of the dedicated industry are the engine of development in western Serbia, and the largest salaries in the sector are in the factory "Milan Blagojevic" from Lucan and the "First Partisan" and are about 65,000 dinars. In "Milan Blagojevic" the net earnings averaged about 63,000 dinars, and the number of jobs in the last five years increased by 30%, while in "The First Partizan" averaged 64 000 dinars, according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute average net earnings without taxes and contributions in Serbia, paid in December of last year, amounted to 54,344 dinars. If it continues at this pace, Milan Blagojevic factory will be forced to hire workers from and from neighbouring municipalities. Similar examples of good practice are in Chacan "Freedom", and the general impression is that the town of Priboj has revived its industrial potential since FAP produces trucks for Serbia's Army. These factories are the engine of development in western Serbia, and this is also part of Serbia from which young people leave to the least. About 49.9m euros in investment was allocated to the Serbian government's decision to modernise and improve Serbian defence industry's production and repair capacities for 2018. He answered the question of the future development of the "Super seagull K4" project announced development and other funds with three capital projects planned for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34503	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Master Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers and fellow MPs, the Law on Military Education is surrounded by the process of harmonising regulations in military education with the system of education in the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of bringing matter to a medium and high military education system office. For the Army of the Republic of Serbia, which has a famous tradition of brilliant military strategies, the Duke of Zivojin Misic, Stepa Stepanovic, Radomir Traveler and Petar Bojovic, the Army whose victories at Kumanovo, Bregalnica, Cera, Kolubari and Kajmakalan are still being studied today, it is of the utmost importance that it has trained staff, which can, in order to fully strengthen the defence system and maintain impeccable training and the physical readiness of soldiers, respond to any task put before them, and in order to safeguard sovereignty, integrity and independence of the Republic of Serbia, participate in the construction and preservation of peace in the region and the world, as well as to support civil authorities in countering threats to the security of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34505	I thank my colleague Lukic. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34506	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, the draft law on military education regulates the objectives and principles of military education, the specificity of military education in relation to the education system of the Republic of Serbia, education, training and military training for the purposes of defence of the Serbian Army, as well as the planning and organisation of military education, special conditions and means of achieving teaching and study programmes, the position of teachers, students, cadets, or students and students, as well as the financing of military school institutions, cadets, students and students and the development of military education. The reason for the submission of this amendment is a way to complete Article 1. A proposal for this law, because one of the tasks of military education is also better access to economic resources. Although the basic motive of military education is not the achievement and respect of economic laws, in modern conditions it is very important that in all segments of education and all professions there is also this economic segment of education and all professions, as well as the growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. By further defining Article 1 of this Act, it contributes to improving military training with respect to basic and economic principles that can contribute to improving the knowledge and experience of the students of these curricula and study programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34507	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34508	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Commission, I would like to welcome Mr. Panic especially because he was from Smederjevska Palanka and he was a successful athlete and worked there for a long time, and if Mr. Gasic were there, I would like to take the opportunity to thank him especially for his great help to the Smederjevska Palanka municipality. At the time of the flood in 2014, the first came with the HBO unit to eliminate the effects of the flood that was terrible and that we had. As the minister's duties were carried out well, I believe he would do even better as BIA's director. What we all know is that the Army and the best segment of our society, that military education at a high level has been and will be even better after the adoption of these laws and the rest of society needs to be seen working by the military. That's how it's supposed to be done in the economy, that's how it's supposed to be done in the state sector, everywhere, because there's order, knowledge and discipline. What is needed and what is and how is applied more in other states, both in economy and everywhere. What I wanted to say to Minister Vulina, and I can tell you Mr. Djordjevic, because until recently you were a defence minister, and also in the government, you needed every job, that in Smederjevska Palanca we had a huge giant Gossa, that we had in that giant and one part of the dedicated programme, that Gosa was working very much with the Army, and that it was a special part of the dedicated program that produced laboratories, operating halls and other equipment for Polish hospitals. So, I know that in this time when Smederevska Palanka is in a difficult situation like the Government you are helping and making great efforts to find new investors and find new jobs. It's one of the possibilities for a dedicated program to be brought there because we have it in the Great Plan. For the production of Smederevska Palanka is not close to the highway, so for this type of production is in a good place and I ask you to think about it because it means itself in a moment, but if there is no sustainable development, one stability of production and a new value, then we will not go forward and we will not survive. So I ask you, as Government, to consider the Smederian Palanca. You've got this in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34509	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34510	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, gentlemen of the Serbian Army, representatives of the BIA, today is an honor and pleasure to take part in the debate in particular on the Law on Education in the Serbian Army, since I, as well as many of my fellow citizens, Leskovci and members of the Jablani District, participated in the Serbian Army's combat acts as members of the battle units. Back then, in 1999, we from Jablani County, from the town of Leskovec, did not receive orders from the top, as the opposition MP said yesterday, to wear a uniform. We simply received a call on which it was written—the country calls. The Jablani County and the town of Leskovac responded, ladies and gentlemen, with over 97% and these were heroic days and thus the Jablani County and the town of Leskovac showed that we were worthy of the descendants of our ancestors. The centre of the Ministry of Defence Leskovac is the territorial body of the Ministry of Defence and is functionally connected to the Regional Centre of the Ministry of Defence Nis. The centre's jurisdiction territory extends to the southeast of Serbia and covers the town of Leskovac and five municipalities of the Jablanic Management District – Bojnik, Medvedja, Lebane, Vlasotince and Crna Trava. The centre of the defence ministry, Leskovac, is responsible for four isolated municipalities from the KIM area, namely Urosevic, Kacanik, Strpce and Štimlje. The total area of jurisdiction is 2,769 square kilometers, with 215,463 inhabitants living in 349 settlements, 51 local offices and 294 local communities. The average population density is 78 inhabitants per km square. The majority population is the Serb national population in 93.59%. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Army and its education are extremely popular in the city of Leskovac and other municipalities of the Jablani County, and this is seen from the number of candidates who apply for admission to all military schools – the Military Academy, the Medical Faculty of VMA, the School of Military High School and the High School of Professional War. For a period of four years, 2014-2018, 426 candidates competed, and 56 were accepted for education. For this number of candidates, in addition to the military's popularity in southern Serbia, the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government Leskovac, along with the office of the mayor of Leskovac, Goran Cvetanovic. At the initiative of the head of the Department of Defence Centre, the mayor always joins a team that promotes military schools, with the presence of all local televisions and electronic and printed media. In early July, when all the entrance exams were completed, the mayor, again on the initiative of the head of the Department of Defence of Leskovac, carried out the admissions to school, which in some ways sent them to school, to wish them a successful education and a successful completion of schooling. This shows that one exceptional co-operation between the local authorities in Leskovac and the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government, Leskovac, has a very positive impact on the high interest of school children to decide that both the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army are future employers, and they choose one of the most honorable professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34511	Thank you. By amendment, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34512	I use the time I have left. I'm glad that there are serious and responsible people here from the Department of Defense and I didn't know, and they probably didn't know that the mayor of Leskovec was affecting who would be admitted to high studies. Here, and now we get confirmation from the MPs from Leskovec, we get confirmation that that's how I'd like to be explained, and there's a former defence minister, how does the mayor of Leskovec affect who gets admitted to the Military Academy or high school? We know that the mayor of Leskovec is famous for opening the toilet at the cemetery as a capital investment, we know that the mayor of the Kings is famous for opening the traffic light, but here we have also learned that the mayors of the Serbian Progressive Party are affecting who will be admitted to the Central Military School or the Military Academy, which I think is scandalous, especially this confirmation that we are now getting. But nothing is scandalous in the country of Serbia when the one who is in power now is in power. We have an example that currently in Mramork, a local community in Kovin, elections are being held for the council of local communities and wonders, nine candidates are being consulted by local communities, the Democratic Party has submitted signatures and collected a list, but today we have been told that we have no right to any member of the electoral committee, that we have no right to any member in the election commission. So, the elections are attended by SNS and DS, but the Democratic Party has no right to its representatives to control the election process, it has no right to members of the electoral committees. My dears, this didn't happen in 1945 when they were deadlocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34513	Thank you, fellow Milojits. Of course, you'll get the word after the amendment. Take it easy, there's more people in here. Let me first contact my colleague Milojičić, as he suggested something he had just done at the beginning of the session through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I let you explain what you wanted to say, but that's in the diametric opposite of what's today's agenda point. (Radoslav Milojic: I have not offended anyone. I did not say that you were offended, but I was already talking about what is the point of the agenda. (Radoslav Milojic: I answered my colleagues. No one asked you a question for you to answer. You have also talked about the amendment in a broader context, I have allowed you to do so and this is just a confirmation that you were wrong when you said at the beginning of the session that there are double standards in conducting a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic): Can the minister answer how the mayor of Leskovci influences who will be admitted? My friend Orlic, did you want a word? The mention of the client.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34514	It seems that mentioning the party has already become a kind of reflex. So a man does it, and then he waves and shouts, and I'm not. He seems to be doing it completely subconsciously. But while it's working, three notes on my part, ladies and gentlemen. First, it's either someone doesn't understand or it's hard for them to accept that people from SNS are opening something, building something, putting something into work. I understand that and we understand that. So those who are used to just closing up, those who are used to just putting locks on the door, those who are used to just letting go and devasting, they don't understand. It's impossible for them to realize that someone can open something and establish a new one in this country. So that misunderstanding I understand where it comes from. The other thing is, someone here has obviously come forward with a desire to go after the SNS and show that some things can't be understood, to boast. So, if you don't understand, here's to help. Someone has come to praise that his party has managed to collect enough signatures for some of the local community council elections, he said, to be able to participate in those elections. It may seem funny to you right now, but it makes sense to brag about it. Why? Because it's a party that obviously has a terrible problem with any kind of support, including the elemental one, and the one that allows any participation or running. I'm talking about the party that, here, I'm looking at, the favored press claims that they don't even know how many members there are today, that such a breakout came from their ranks, that they haven't even updated their membership lists, so they don't even know who's going to be able to participate in these internal elections. It says the press, they're fond of it, that these days it's a real hoax. the purchase or payment of artificial membership fees to provide themselves with the right to participate in these intra-party elections, i.e. to have more delegate votes. In a place like Smederjevska Palanka, in which money is thus recorded more members than there are any votes in the elections, it is clear that this result is also a local community for every praise.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34515	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34516	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected representatives of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, fellow MPs, since all my predecessors did not speak about the amendment, but spoke about their local self-governments, so I too need to say something about my local self-government, i.e. a casary, military facility located in the territory of the municipality of Surdulica. We all know that the Surdulica municipality suffered the most damage during the NATO bombing. After the NATO bombing ended, the Republika Srpska Army, i.e. the state invested over 10m euros and restored all these facilities. A boiler room was also built to serve the entire barracks, however, in the beginning of the construction of a South military base, the military decided to tear down that boiler room, take down the buildings, extract the boilers, remove all the tanks and transfer to the South military base. As president of the municipality at the time, I asked the Secretary-General to buy new tanks, to buy new boilers, and to keep the facility to the municipality of Surdulica and the Serbian Army, so that we could in the municipality heat schools, schools, households, and normally the military to heat up their barracks. However, I was informed that this could not and then this new facility was destroyed and is now standing as a mockery in the center of the city of Surdulica. So I ask the representatives of the army to rebuild the boiler room, that the municipality of Surdulica will also finance if we need both boilers and new tanks and let that facility function. I'm also asking you to let go, because the state has invested so much money, that we can bring that barracks in for purpose. Before you, Mr. Minister, there was Minister Gasic, who visited the municipality of Surdulica and the barracks in Surdulica and was promised that the barracks in Surdulica would enter the master plan of the Republika Srpska Army and that the army would be brought to serve for what it was made for. In case the military doesn't have any plans for this barracks, I'm asking you to sit down with the Surdulla municipality and find a solution, because it's really a shame to invest that much money, and to make it a mockery in the center of town. The third thing, if the Serbian Army offers the municipality of Surdulic to buy that barracks and, I hear, is asking for 10m euros, it is the entire budget of the Surdulic municipality, a poor municipality that cannot do so. Here, the sale of the same military caraula facilities at the border with Bulgaria is now under way, and the military is selling it at some prices of three to four million dinars. We're as a municipality interested in buying these facilities, but we think it's better to invest that money in the reconstruction of these facilities, so we can give them to either the Hunting Association or anyone, because these associations will be our border guards. Although these villages are mostly populated by the old population, let's rebuild these facilities and put them into operation, not sell them to us. So I ask the Minister of Resort, the Serbian Government and representatives of the Serbian Army to train the Surdulica barracks or to bring her to the cause, because it is a shame that such objects are noised empty in Surdulica. I thank you for listening to me and I would like to commend my colleague Mrkonjic, who participated in the restoration of our barracks. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34517	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Radmilo Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34518	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates, since you didn't just give a word to your colleague, I'd like just one little note. He was talking about the town of Leskovac helping promote high-school military schools and high-level military schools, as well as sending cadets, and we didn't hear that there were stories about someone affecting the reception of cadets, so I'm just obliged to say it. The world's most developed countries also have the most developed military industry. The military industry in the modern world employs a large number of people, both directly and indirectly. The military industry is also a direct driver of the economy and the overall development of countries. We are witnessing that from year to year our military industry, i.e. purposely, is seeing growth. My colleague Malusic said something about it yesterday, so I don't want to repeat that information again. The development of the military industry in our country is driven and developed by the accompanying industry. Such a desired result also requires serious investment in education by both civilian and military personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34519	Thank you, colleague Kostic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34520	I thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, gentlemen of the officers, the new Law on Military Education will provide a good basis for modern training of soldiers, officers and officers of the Serbian Army, all in order to acquire knowledge, skills and skills that will enable them to carry out one of the most important tasks effectively, responsibly and successfully, which is the task of defending our country. The passing of this law is part of the reform of the defence system, as well as part of the overall reform process conducted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to these reforms, today only in the first three months of 2018 we achieved economic growth greater than 4%, and before 2012, that growth was even -3.5%. Thanks to reforms, we have in Serbia's budget today plus over 6.5 billion dinars for the third year in a row, and we were once in a deep down. Thanks to reforms, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is now lower by more than 1.5 billion euros. Thanks to reforms by the Serbian government, we have progressed 40 places on the Duing business list of ease of business. Thanks to these reforms, Serbia is now among the top ten countries in the world at the speed of issuing building permits, and for example in 2014 we were in 186 places. Thanks to these reforms, our country was the first in the world last year in number of new jobs compared to the number of inhabitants. Thanks to these reforms, we are negotiating with investors today for a 54 investment project whose total value is over two and a half billion euros, which will create over 29,000 new jobs. This government will continue reforms, as it is obvious that these reforms produce results. The results of which will be seen in the future, because we will leave our children a much more orderly country than we found in 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34521	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34522	Thank you. With Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Zoran Djordjevic here with us in the hall, I will talk about a very important issue that has been plagued by hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens who have participated in armed conflicts in the area of the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s. I think it's finally time to get rid of their position in one system, and I want to thank Minister Djordjevic, who recently announced it, to pass a new Law on the Rights of Fighters, War Disabilities, Civil Victims of War and members of their families. I think that is a very important question, because in this way Serbia will repay these people who have actively defended our country and were willing to give their lives for our country, and some have unfortunately given up that life. What I particularly want to appeal to the Ministry and Minister Djordjevic is that a new law, which I hope will soon be adopted, includes a category of Serbian citizens who were members of the army and police of Republika Srpska. In fact, it is more than 50,000 Krajis who have recognised the rights of fighters only until 27 April 1992, or until the formation of the SRJ. Krajina has felt discriminated against for years because they believe they have not fought for themselves, but have fought for Yugoslavia, for Serbia and for their people. In Serbia, he believes it would not be good for members of the Republika Srpska military and police to be recognised as a wartime post after 27 April 1992, until the end of the war. I disagree with that opinion for two reasons. The first reason is that according to existing regulations, all active officers at the level of commanders, battalions, brigades, Corpses, who were members of the Republika Srpska Army, have recognised a dual-term military internship. Then the question arises - who were these Krajina officers in command of if their fighters were not granted a wartime? The second example is Croatia, which passed a new law last year on the rights of Croatian defenders, which fully equalised the rights of members of the Croatian Council of Defence from BiH with the rights of members of the Croatian military. Therefore, Croatia recognises Croatia's larger defences from neighbouring BiH as an integral part of its army. Also, the law says that all those members of the Croatian Council who have failed to exercise their right to a family or disability pension under a contract that exists between Croatia and BiH will now receive the right, will be able to apply and, if they have valid documentation, Croatia will recognise their pension rights and receive either a family or a disability pension. I believe that this new law, which will soon be passed, I repeat, should correct this decades-old injustice and recognise all members of the Republika Srpska Army and police during the period 1991 to 1995, to allow those members of the RSK military and police who did not exercise those rights during the previous period so that they can re-apply and if they deliver solid evidence that these damages have indeed been acquired during the war, that they are recognised by those rights of a wartime invalid or other rights. Also, the law should allow all other rights to local fighters who also have members, or fighters from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34523	Thank you. By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34524	What we have just heard as an explanation of the amendments on the agenda is a propaganda story, a demagogue we have been listening to here for years, which has had no effect, because first of all, being a member of the ruling coalition and being part of the government, and only now remember or occasionally remember only in the comments of the Krajsnik fighters is hypocritical. As for the SRS, of course, we have a different approach generally towards the Republika Srpska Krajina, we think that the Republika Srpska Krajina should be free from the Croatian Ustasha occupation and we believe that this will happen and that it should be, for example, one of the conditions and subject matter when talking to the current representatives of the Croatian state, and not allow them to keep setting conditions for us, to ask us for part of Backo, to condition Serbia's entry into the EU this or that. Of course, it's a good thing they condition and it's a good thing that everyone will do that Serbia does not enter the EU, and it should not enter. But as for the Krajina Serbs and fighters and their families and generally Serbs from Republika Srpska, this government, as well as the previous ones, has done nothing to improve the status of these people and, besides, to have the will, the MP who spoke earlier, who as a representative of Serbs from Republika Srpska, thinks that this is the case, would have long started the initiative and probably, as part of the authorities, fought to officially recognise the government of Republika Srpska in an exile that operates as the Republika Srpska Krajina Assembly does, and these should also be the subject when bringing flowers to the bridge and when talking to representatives of the Croatian Ustasha state, as should be the subject of talks on your path to the EU, which thank God will not have an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34525	You have a basis for replication. Here you go, Comrade Linta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34526	It is saddened that a previous MP of my initiative to recognise the military and police of Republika Srpska during the war is called propaganda and hypocrisy. It speaks of how much she cares about the rights and interests of the Krajina Serbs. The Republic of Serbia respects the international order and seeks, as part of its ability, to actively help the survival of the remaining Serbs in Croatia. President Vukic is precisely doing everything in his power to initiate a permanent dialogue with Croatia, to get all open issues under the carpet, to put them on the table, and through this dialogue, through mixed working groups and commissions, all these problems of the Krajina Serbs begin to resolve, and the issue of the leftover outstanding pensions and the issue of taken-off housing rights, the issue of labour, the issue of dinar foreign exchange savings, kidnapped agricultural, forest land, the issue of respect for the national and human rights of Serbs in Croatia. It's not easy because unfortunately, we still have double standards of great forces. Instead of Brussels, Berlin and Washington sending a clear message that Croatia must, as a member of the EU, respect all human and national rights of members of the Serb community, it is not in practice, unfortunately, and I am convinced that Serbia will continue to do everything in its power to help the position of our people. (President: Bring the end. ) As for the current government's relationship with the Krajina Serbs, and I must say that the government that led Serbia in 2012 did one historic thing, eventually the Krajina Serbs were recognised as victims and finally the state at the highest level began to mark the tragedy of the Krajina Serbs. (President: I thank you. So we're well aware that we've had big national gatherings in Raca, Veternik, Busia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34527	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34528	Demagogy again, throwing dust in the eyes again. I remind Mr Lint and I would like to remind the public of Serbia and the Krajina Serbs why he did not vote and why he did not persuade his fellow MPs from his parliamentary group to vote for a bill proposed by General Bozidar Delic, an SRS MP, to the National Assembly several months ago. In these bill proposals, for those who have read them in general, the exact definition and solution of all the problems, among other things, and all these problems Mr. Linta is talking about. Does this mean that he has this deed to solve the problem of the Krajisnik Serbs and does not think to vote if someone else suggests it? And if only he had solved those problems, so may he, but he does not solve them, tells stories and let the Krajina Serbs know that Linta did not vote in favour of the bill proposed by General Bozidar Delic, an SRS MP. The bill solves all the problems of the last country wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34529	The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34530	I repeat, it is regrettable that Mrs. Radeta views this issue as a party issue. Also, it is not about the fact that we support a proposal from one party or another to systematically resolve the question of hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens who participated in the armed conflicts in the 1990s. This is primarily a state and national issue. This issue should be resolved by the state, the Government, and General Delic will certainly be able, when we enter this stage of the preparation of laws on rights of fighters, wartime wartime peoples and families of fallen fighters, to actively engage in giving their proposals and their initiatives, and then through a democratic debate in the Assembly, I hope, we will come up with the best solution and the best provisions of that law. It is also not true that I am not helping the landscape Serbs, hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs who are facing a number of problems in the integration process in Serbia, primarily in the area of housing and other problems. I am one of the, I believe, few MPs in the Serbian Parliament who put his only mobile phone on the Alliance of Serbs website from the region and I can have every citizen call at any time of the day and talk to me. I've got over 8,000 phones in my cell phone and I can show it to anyone. So, I'm available to everyone. I don't talk. I do. I'm trying to help people, I'm talking to them, I'm calling the competent institutions, I'm calling for these problems to be solved, somewhere harder, somewhere slower, but that I don't have a good will, an honest desire to help people, it's absolutely not true. I call, Mrs. Radet, to then come to see our site, the Alliance of Serbs site from the region, to see my mobile phone where I have, I repeat, over 8,000 numbers of our countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34531	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34532	Yes, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Milicevic was obliged to interrupt Mr. Lint a moment ago, to tell him that article 150. The Rules of Procedure also provide for the possibility for the MP to propose legislation. It's not the Government of the Holy Cow that only the Government can propose the law. Linta did not respond to the citizens of Serbia, primarily those who were expelled from Republika Srpska, why he did not read Bozidar Delic's bill and why he did not vote in favour of the proposal. He's talking here, we should wait for us, to remember the government, that one day he might pass the law, so that in democratic, he says, the atmospheres are discussing the law. We have a bill, a democratic atmosphere, that we have a fact here to discuss the law, but it is about the fact that the government does not want to put on the agenda any bill proposed by MPs who use their rights under Article 150. Rules of Procedure. Your obligation was to terminate the MP at that time and tell him that he cannot deny the right of an MP to submit a bill. We argue that this proposal, which you obviously did not read, is absolutely comprehensive on the issues of the Krajina Serbs, among other things, and the issues that Mr Linta is dealing with here, and he says he cares about resolving housing issues, care, etc. The Krajina Serbs. He's asked by those of Cacko who moved there why the only ones who got some apartments there don't even have the right to get a contract to use those apartments, and don't let God buy them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34533	Thank you. You are absolutely right, Article 150 provides that and the MP has the right but not the obligation, and I, as chairman, cannot dictate whether or not the MP will submit a legislative proposal. (The Faith of Radeta: Are we a little crazy or don't we understand?) No, we're talking about Mr. Linty. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yeah. Please, just a moment, but before you came forward, Mr. Orlic, I'll give you my word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34534	No, straight to the replica, MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34535	Please, then just a moment, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure before that again. (Alexander Martinovic: I can't do two consecutive injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Who was the previous speaker? ) Just a moment, Radeta's colleague thinks I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and now we'll see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34536	Mr. Chairman, your earlier argument was more like a discussion than an explanation, and I don't understand why the question of who was speaking and who hurt the Rules of Procedure comes from this side. You have here predicted that only the Chairman can, or so you are misreading this Rules of Procedure that only the Chairman can harm the Rules of Procedure which is absolutely not true. You said earlier that you knew that the MP had the right to submit a bill on the basis of article 150, but that you couldn't dictate whether someone would do it or not. None of you asked for it, but I asked for it earlier, after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that you had to draw attention to the fact that I suppose as the chairman you know, not that you are pushing the MPs, but that you have a bill from Mr. Bozidar Delic, the MP of the SRS, and this proposal provides for solving all the problems of the fighters, the fighting families, the fallen fighters, the wounded fighters, the disabled, all the categories of fighters from the last country wars. That was our remark, and now I've intervened on the basis of Article 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34537	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Right to replica, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34538	I hope you're safe, Mr. Chairman this time. Since a parliamentary group of ladies and gentlemen has been mentioned, no, of course not the measure of one's relationship with the Krajijski Serbs is a party issue. There's Mr. Linta absolutely right. Thus, it is not the measure of relations with the Krajijski Serbs that we see whether the proposal of an MP or someone's personal idea is the best in the world or not. We have a more significant situation here, very much like when someone finds themselves invited to conclude that he knows better than certain people what they think and what they feel. As we often explain to some here that I can't, for example. from the Kosovo Metohian Serbs, better to know what they think and what they feel and who they think is helping them, the same goes for the Krajih Serbs. No one can give himself the right to know better than that people. Whom this people values, respects and respects and who they think is helping them, take a look at it, and only for a few seconds, supported by Krajisniki in the 2016 elections. And one and two times, it's about a list that was headed by Alexander Vukic. Does that tell you anything? From that list he was elected MP and Mr. Linta. Does that also tell you anything about the Krajijski Serbs' relationship to Alexander Vukic, according to our list, according to our party, to Mr. Linta. Take a look at the support for the 2017 presidential elections, which was supported by the Association of Exorcised and Exiled from Republika Srpska? Alexander Wolfie. Look at the support for the Belgrade elections this year. You're guessing the answer, it's the same. So, who these people support, who they love and who they know is helping them, and they've given a more clear answer every time. If Mr. Lint, who works day and night, answers the questions of the exiles who are currently in Chačka but also in any other city in this country day and night, finds a solution, and even if you're not satisfied with how fast and successful he is, but for a man who helps and works, you attack him for what? So you can be in transmission for two minutes longer. Don't wonder why the Krajijski Serbs will never support you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34539	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Linta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34540	Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Radeta did not tell the truth about the problem of 530 families of users of the program whose apartments were built in seven local self-government funds by the Italian government. It's not true that I haven't tried and I'm not trying to solve that problem. It is well known that the Law on Refugees of May 2010 allowed all refugee families whose apartments and other facilities were built by means of these organisations to have the right to ransom. I personally organised several meetings with Mrs. Mihajlovic and with former Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Mr. Vulin, countless meetings with state secretaries and lower officials in both ministries. We haven't solved that problem yet. I believe and appeal now to Mr. Djordjevic to organise another meeting soon to find a solution to the issue. On the occasion of this question, to meet Mrs Radet, it was also personal with the Prime Minister, Ms. Ana Brnabic, and she showed both the will and the desire to address this problem, i.e. to contact the competent ministry in Rome, since the Italian government was a donor to the construction of these 530 apartments and to finally get the right to buy their apartments with the help of Mrs. Brnabic, with the help of Mr. Djordjevic, to find that solution and to find those 530 families as well as other 3,000 refugee families finally get the right to buy out their apartments and to know that they are on their own. As far as the issue of the Krajina fighters is concerned, I repeat, it is not a party issue. This is one of the state and national issues, and I believe that together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will find the best solutions and that the Krajina Serbs will finally know that the state of Serbia has fully recognised them, i.e. recognised the wartime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34541	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34542	It's a miracle that someone who's been in power here for six years complains or boasts, I don't know exactly, that since 2010, he hasn't been able to convince the various governments, so three or four were in the meantime to pass a law on refugees to solve, among other things, and these problems he's talking about. This is really something amazing. A man should know he's been in power for six years. This is, by the way, your government manners to complain about something that you inherited as if you weren't here to change something for the better, but no, you continued all the same way, and that is the basic problem. In the context of the replica, I'm not really going to talk about the rude appearance of my colleague that I'm replicating, and I wanted to draw your attention to the Rules of Procedure, but I'm going to tell him that the election results are missing. It's a variable category, they'll see soon enough, and let's not be objected to by the Serbian radicals, so that we don't take care of the Republika Srpska Krajina. We are the only party that has recognised the government of Republika Srpska. Mr. Orlic, when he joined the SRS at the time, said that this was the basic reason why he wanted to join our party. What happened in the meantime, I don't know, but here I am only challenging him to do another replica, if he will and if you allow him, list only five places within the border of Karlobag – Ogulin – Karlovac – Virovitica, if he knows, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34543	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the SRS is sincerely concerned about the Republika Srpska Krajina and the Serbs of Republika Srpska, I will only provide two information, as I am a living witness to it. Don't be nervous, Mrs. Radeta, and don't think you know everything about Republika Srpska. [[The Faith of Radeta: Where does he get the right to replica?]] So, Mrs Radeta said that she cares about the government of Republika Srpska, not in exile but in persecution, it is called, and that it is a great fault for us from the SNS that we do not support the work of Republika Srpska's government in persecution. In 2012, the Serbian Radical Party placed Milorad Buhu 49th on the election list for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the persecution of Republika Srpska. In 2016's elections, in parliamentary elections, MPs in the Republika Srpska Krajina Assembly in persecution, a man I know in the end, as well as Mr Buha, Dusan Munikavic, called Munju, placed 43rd. You are sincerely concerned about the Republika Srpska government in persecution and the Republika Srpska Krajina Assembly in persecution, so you would probably put these people in some transition places. I suppose these people would get a chance to enter the National Assembly and be authentic representatives, since you are not, authentic representatives of the Serb people from Republika Srpska. You have no Serb from Republika Srpska, unlike the SNS parliamentary group, where you can see here how much you want Serbs born in the territory of Republika Srpska, and some have come to Serbia because of the war circumstances of 1995 and due to the criminal operation "Storm".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34545	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34546	I'll probably have to answer it twice. Mr. Milicevic, you were obliged to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, as well as the previous speaker had no right to the replica and what he said was not true, so now I have to criticise you and use this article 27th and 107th because simply someone who swore yesterday in Greater Serbia, who was a national MP of the SRS and twice in a passing place, as a Krajish Serb, as someone who advocated the ideology of Serbian nationalism, who was now a secretary of what was true, who was Vojislav Seselj the greatest Serbian hero, who had public appearances on television, who was a deputy head of the parliamentary group, and all of Alexander Martinović, now the secretary of the National Assembly, agreed that there was no one in the SRS group, who had had to be the deputy head of the parliamentary group, and no one who had to run away from his family in the town where he lived, so that his family and that he had to stay. So, take your bills, Mr. Milicevic, when you're sufflified like that, and you're a very responsible man. You are a member of the SPS, who has run for this place and in the democratic atmosphere, all MPs voted to be vice-president of the Assembly, that those who have no idea of anything to you, who do know anything, do not subfly how you should hold a session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34547	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Natasa Jovanovic: I want to. I thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34548	Since it was personal address and personal questions, I have to notice that some of them seem to be listening to nothing. Mrs. Radeta didn't speak according to the Rules of Procedure. She obviously forgot what base she came forward on, and on what basis she got the word, but once again, since you obviously didn't listen, here, let me say it again. It's not that hard to understand. No one talked about the election results. So concentrate freely and listen carefully. I was talking about the support given ahead of the election. I talked about who was supported by the associations of exiled and exiled, and then I say and I repeat, in order to understand well, in 2014 and 2016, before the parliamentary elections, this support went to the list led by Aleksandar Vukic, the list from which Mr Linta was elected as MP. I spoke of support ahead of the 2017 presidential elections and ahead of the local elections in Belgrade in 2018. I speak and speak to whom Serbs from Republika Srpska support. I believe it doesn't answer to anyone. I believe it's uncomfortable for someone to hear it, but if you hear it, try to understand it, it's, first of all, a message to you. Based on how anyone behaves at today's session, we've begun to react. By acting in today's session, they show how much they respect, or they don't exactly respect those Krajina Serbs, and since they haven't heard one more thing, so that we don't throw big words at each other and mention some lies, let them say for themselves where the Bull's MP is if we were wrong and if he had a chance to sit here based on that rank on the list and how much real support he can get. So much, no less, no more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34549	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34550	Yes, Article 107. Rules of Procedure. But I have to use it to answer this question. The former Bhuha MP, an SRS MP, is now advanced, and I do not know by what basis an employee, or a department is formed at the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, and he is stationed there, answering the question of an MP who does not know where he is. The Messenger Orlic was indeed very insulting, above all, towards me as a Messenger of the people. And you have different arches when it comes to different terms. Some MPs, or MPs, may say the ugliest things about other MPs, and opposition MPs must so on the edge of the razor, make sure that God does not offend some size from power. Mr. Orlic told me that, he shows me, draws attention – you know, Mrs. Radeta, it's not hard to understand. Well, it's not hard for me to understand, I'm an intelligent woman, a folk MP, who knows this job well, but I'm afraid it's hard to understand the limited like he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34551	Comrade Radeta, would you like the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, People's Rules of Procedure Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34552	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. Here's what we have as a consequence of some MP... (The Belief of Radeta: Article 107 was. He can't do that. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34553	It's just pointed to article 107. You have to point to another member.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34554	So, Article 103 regarding Article 107, let me be more specific. So, here's what we have as a consequence when some party MPs think they have the exclusive right, to have a deed to the position of the Serb people from Republika Srpska, and then in that thought, they are offended simply when someone from another party, who has a greater right to deal with the issue, begins to solve the problems of the Serb people of Republika Srpska, the former. So, we had a situation here that we went over lightly, when Mrs. Radeta just said that we, well, don't know the municipalities and cities of Republika Srpska. Now, I was born on Vračar and live my whole life on Vračar, but I know perfectly well where Slunj is and where Vojić is, I know perfectly well where the Knin is and where is Benkovac and Obrovac. The fact that I was born on the Sorceress, which I don't even have the origin of the Krajina, doesn't mean that it doesn't diminish my love and my care for that people. And don't think you're the only one with a deed to the position of the Serbian people in Krajina. When it comes to who the Krajis support, in the largest neighbourhood, in the Busias, you know very well what the election results were and that shows everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34555	Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. My colleague Martinović, you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34556	Did I get a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a replica? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Okay. Article 107, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34557	He was just a member of 107. You'll have to point to another member.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34558	All right, Article 27, Mr. Milicevic. I was told I was lying. This is an election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj SRS for 2016. The MP at the Republika Srpska Krajina Assembly in exile Dusan Munikravic is in 43rd place, at the age of 1964 by the occupation of a police officer, lives in Zemun. What was I lying about? I didn't lie to you. As far as geography is concerned, it seems that, Mrs. Jovanovic, is not your strong suit. Livno is not in Republika Srpska. By the way, you asked me, who else is sitting here? Well, I can list half of the parliamentary club to you people originating in Republika Srpska or Republika Srpska or Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here's a living professor, Dr. Mark Atlagic, who served as minister at the government of Republika Srpska at the time of the armed conflict. So, I ask that all people from Republika Srpska, from Republika Srpska, who sit in the SNS parliamentary group, raise their hands. Here, you'll see how many people like that are there. So this is where you have the Kordunas, the Lichans, the Bosnians, the Herzegovians, etc. Now you, Mrs Jovanovic, from Kragujevac, have found yourself telling me that Mrs Verica Radeta, who was born in Livno, is a representative of the Serb people from Republika Srpska. I mean, I really don't know what to say. Of course, I don't want you to make a statement about this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34559	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. ) You will be able to indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you cannot replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Martinovic, do you want the National Assembly to plead in the voting day? He said no. I didn't hear. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34560	Here you can see, already, colleague Milicevic, as well as the entire public, the character of Aleksandr Martinovic. He is for his political promotion and attempts to draw attention to the fact that he lied in the SRS, in our parliamentary group there are not any Serbians from Republika Srpska, and I said that Mrs. Mihajlovic, who, by the way, was in the regular seat of the number 3rd SRS – Dr. Vojislav Seselj, the secretary of the Republika Srpska government, tried to replace the thesis and name of these honorable people, who, though belonging to another political party, to raise their hands just to prove him public. What does it matter, you know, that he would point to me where Mr. Atlagic, whom, by the way, I've known for at least 20 or 25 years since Martinovic went to elementary school? That doesn't diminish that he now has a responsibility to say something. But, you know, if there was a replacement for thesis now, and I'll remind you, because it was your job, Mr. Milicevic, and now I should have called three times, it all started the moment that Miodrag Linta said he advocated saving apartments, as he advocates resolving the status of fighters from the last country wars. To get you back to the beginning, right, because now you don't know how it all started, because of these lies and the deception of the advances, or Martinovic, and we've just claimed that we have the law, that it was written by the famous Serbian General Bozidar Delic, who also has the origin of the west of Drina, and that we have a solution for the question of the homeless military, because counterpart Linta said it was all settled. It's not solved. Here, now in your break, colleague Linta, walk from two to three hours to the Bristol Hotel and see that there are officers living there today in inadequate conditions and members of their families. The people got grandchildren at the hotel, and they didn't get the housing issue solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34561	Thank you. My colleague Jovanovic, it is true that it is started with the violations of the Rules of Procedure, pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the moment that my colleague Linta made certain findings concerning the construction of apartments. I don't know if those claims are true or not. It is your legitimate right to consider the opposite and to point out that. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. I thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34562	Article 27(2) It wasn't. I'm really shocked, I can barely speak after what I just heard from Mr. Martinovic. First of all, I was shocked by the fact that he was dividing Serbs into Sumadinians and I don't know, and especially since he was bothered that Natasa Jovanovic mentioned that my family had come from Livna. I don't know why that bothers him. Perhaps they should have stayed in Livna, slaughtered them, as they slaughtered my grandfathers and others in 1941. I'm really shocked by that kind of relationship and what's said here. I would also ask, since Mr. Martinovic had just really humiliated the MPs, asking them to raise their hand, and he mentioned that we had Dusan Munikravic in 47th place, so let them raise their hand which of them was above 47th place. Another remark, we Serbian radicals are said to think that we are the only ones who have the right to take care of the Krajina Serbs. No, we don't think we're the only ones with that right. We see it as part of our policy, our political struggles, our lives, that's how it's gonna be. Gentlemen, you who rule have an obligation to do this and not to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34563	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34564	Article 107, Mr. Milicevic. I really don't want to... (Verica Radeta: No Article 107.)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34565	You'll have to point to another member, Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34566	So I really don't want to heat up the atmosphere in the National Assembly, that's what I said yesterday, and count the Serbs who are on this one and who is on the other side of the Drina. Unfortunately, the tragedy also happened to the Serb people in Republika Srpska and the Serb people living in BiH. Like you, I deeply regret this tragedy. Neither you nor I are on the opposite side of this. I just wanted to tell you one thing. Republika Srpska Krajina existed from 1990 to 1995. We were talking about Republika Srpska. We weren't talking about Serbs west of Drina. The fact is that Livno was not in Republika Srpska, that Livno is in BiH, such as the fact that Mrs Ljiljana Mihajlovic really came to Serbia, but did not come from Republika Srpska again, but came from Zagreb. (The Faith of Radeta: From Western Slavonia.) She came from Zagreb and you know it very well. So Zagreb was not in Republika Srpska again. As for Milorad Buha, Mrs. Radet, I'm really not gonna answer for this word anymore, you know that Mr. Buha was put on 49th place on the SRS election list in 2012. He thought it was humiliation, not for him personally, but for the Krajina Serbs. If one of the prime ministers of the Republika Srpska government is in exile, he felt he deserved more place on the election list. He retired from the election list and you put a good historian, good man Dr. Nikola Žutić, back on that 49th place in 2012
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34567	Thank you. The word is made by MP Maja Gojkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34568	Thank you very much. I am giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure because I believe that neither the previous 20 violations of the Rules of Procedure were essential, but all of them abused the institution of abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and you should have, in order to return everyone to the discussion on the amendment of MPs Miodrag Linta, to use Article 103 paragraph 8 and to prevent this from being punished and time-consuming. It is a very clear amendment to MP Miodrag Linta, who only completes the matter of the law. I don't see why such a bile discussion happened between the two parliamentary groups, following his amendment and following his explanation of the amendment. I believe that, precisely because of a sensitive topic and because of the position of the Serbian people outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is not the place for us to give each other low blows below or above armpits, but at least for this topic to be something that the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will unite. It is our obligation to represent the citizens of Serbia, no matter what people they belong to, but it is our duty to worry about the position of the Serbian people in the countries in the environment. At least we will help these discussions to improve their status and position in the Republic of Croatia, both in the Republic of Montenegro and in the Republic of Slovenia, and in the Republic of Macedonia, and in particular they will not be happy after the debate on the amendment, which was the least like the amendment debate, and most of all about the dispute between Serbian lawmakers and other political options. So I ask the MPs to consider that some topics are simply above daily politics. I believe that this amendment, Miodrag Linge, is quite all right, that his reasoning is quite fine and that I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by reason of such more technicality, has rejected this amendment, and I call on MPs to possibly vote and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34569	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I want to speak by amendment. ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34570	The amendment of Miodrag Linta has not been completed. So, as far as this amendment is concerned, it will not be accepted, because these are amendments written by the SNS parliamentary groups and each of them individually due to the spending of this total time. I want to say one more time, since we're away from the basic debate, that no law has been passed to resolve the questions of the people who participated in the last country wars. General Bozidar Delic has repeatedly explained his very precise, comprehensive law here. You too, Mr. Minister, can have insight into him, and that would be a permanent solution, not a propaganda amendment like this. As far as the question of homeless soldiers is concerned, that's one very difficult question. In Kragujevac alone, Mr. Vulin, there are over 100 families who have not been able to resolve the issue because of the lack of interest of the founding military minister at the time, although there was hearing from the other side, local self-government in Kragujevac, compensation of the property that the city has, or exchange, and, as far as the Army and the barracks "Vojvoda Radomir Putnik" are concerned, and this is the situation in Cacca, where counterpart Radeta has stated precisely that people cannot buy apartments, and the same is the case, unfortunately, with already mentioned counterpart Mihajlovic and her father, and there are many more such cases. So it's clear, and to conclude, the amendment has been written for propaganda purposes, to talk about it. All of this can only be solved by a system law like the SRS has prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34571	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34572	I'm advertising Article 106. Of course, we've been sitting here for a long time, and we've been attending discussions that don't have any touch points with agenda points. The chairman, as a rule, tolerates. If that tolerance were to be without some selectivity, then perhaps it would be acceptable, but apparently there is a selectivity. When, by any chance, outside the topic referred to by the amendment or agenda item, the opposition quickly responds to the majority of the vice-presidents. I can't specifically make any remarks for you, but most of the vice presidents or presidents react. When he does that ruling, when he talks about what he'd like most in life, about my childhood's favorite personality, then there's no reaction, then let it go like that. The free topic in the field of literature and Serbian language has been present here for a long time. Therefore, I ask you to take some common criteria that will be approximated and equal for the opposition and for the ruling one. Because here we have heard that Serbia will increase its exports by military education, that the standard and the gross social product will grow by new ways of thinking about education in the military will achieve this larger gross social product, etc., etc. That's practically nonsense. I strongly advise my colleagues – all these speeches that you are now speaking and making public, you will have to read and see how correct you were and how much you were in the function of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34573	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. By amendment, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34574	Thank you. The amendment under review reads: "The military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rights of refugees and exiled persons." The government has informed the Assembly that it has not accepted the amendment, because the rights of the refugees and the exiles are not subject to the regulation of this law, which is correct. It's not easy for me as opposition MPs to say that the government is right, but this time you're right. The debate we had on this amendment reveals one issue which is essentially not raised in public, unfortunately, and for which neither the defence minister is in charge, whoever he is, nor the representatives of the Serbian Army or the Ministry of Defence, as far as the issues we have discussed here are concerned, the evasive and exiled persons. These people were avoided and exiled because there were some wars, and we have no answer to the question of the 90s wars, did Serbia lose or win those wars? It's not your topic, it's the subject of us in this room, politicians who are running to solve inherited issues, whoever is responsible for them, and that by considering these issues in the context of the present, they can make a plan for the future. Whoever you ask what wars we've lost and in which we won, you won't get an answer. I have an answer that is not the subject of this debate, and that's why I don't share it with you. I share my respect for all those who participated in the military at the time of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, because it is part of the history of the Serbian Army and if there really is some debate about what part of that history, then there will be answers to the question that we lost in the 1990s and in which we won. Why are we running away from that issue, and why do I think that question should be a topic of military education? So, not this law, I'm now making a little digression out of the amendment itself and from a member who defines military education in Serbia, should be the subject of curricula, plans and programmes that are being studied at secondary education level, especially high education. Higher education, because by doing so, the Serbian Army itself, or representatives of educational institutions, will contribute to trying to make some mistakes from the past never again, and much more importantly, to face some mistakes honestly, courageously, and honestly, how often we are in words when we want to talk about Serbia's Army. I don't mean members, I mean us politicians and politicians. There is no lack of courage, no honesty, no honor to face what happened in the '90s. A comment on this amendment will end with a proposal that we may be able to start talking about the future of military education so that it is better, with a particular reference to the fact that it will hardly be time for the Minister directly, with the Government, to discuss our proposal that, after the completion of military high school, students will automatically become cadets, i.e. students, that and three of the best students of the Central Military School without participation in the competition, which the Ministry of Defence has called. It is our amendment because to continue schooling in that military higher education facility we impose the obligation to pass an entrance exam for the study programmes of basic and integrated academic studies and I know very well that it is easy to refuse from the minister's point of view. I repeat, I have no problem with the argument to refuse this amendment, but if you really want to take a step somewhere, and you're in charge of that step, it's either to accept this amendment or to make your amendment with a committee that will show that you want the best boys and girls from those military schools to be in high school integrated without a admission exam. That's the attitude. It's a message. It's much more effective than all the empty phrases we exchange here or in the so-called. the media sphere or the public dealing with the status of Serbia's military. I have deep respect for all those who feel the call to serve the army, to be in security forces, to be in the security sector, because I think it's an invitation, it's not an occupation, and my desire as a politician who makes decisions about laws is to enable all those who feel that call to do it in the best possible way. One of us is to support the best among you to be the best among students. That's our proposal for education. This second issue -- which we have lost in wars, in which we have won wars, is not a question for Serbia's army and is not a question for the defence ministry. It is, unfortunately, a question that will be left without a conversation until we stop being a mythical community that speaks of myths and things that do not exist and begin to deal with life, reality, faced with the facts that exist. Only by doing so together will we find the answer to the question – which we lost in the 1990s, in which we won, because this escaped, exiled face, faces internally displaced exist because of some wars. Everyone has been left at will and politically interpreted as talking about these wars as winnings or defeats. It's not good for the Serbian army. That's not good for Serbia's future. The power in one society will be looked at if we are able to move from arbitrary interpretations of the 90s wars to military education dialogue in which we will indeed exchange facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34575	According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34576	I thank the chairman for the opportunity not to speak equally of the amendment as Parliamentarian Gordana Comic said in the same way. I guess she's still the shadow defence minister, although Bojan Pajtic is no longer the DS president, but he may still be prime minister of shadow, and if not, then he's the former defence minister in the former DS shadow government. I'm not saying it on purpose, but I just can't send it out, and I want to defend it against those who think the Secretary of Defense had to serve the army. As far as I know, Gordana Comic did not serve an army or any courses that would have touched it, but the best choice of DS is in shadow for that place. As we have seen, it is against this amendment because it did not understand it or did not read it until the end, because it says that military education is very important for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rights of refugees and exiled persons, and this amendment wants to allow equal status for people who want to be educated in military institutions, and came from territories located outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and belong to the category of refugees and exiled persons. So, legally and politically, this amendment is quite all right, and now the question is whether anyone wants to support it or not wants it to be interpreted. I see that the shadow government minister, in the shadow of the Democratic Party of Bojan Pajtic, who may be and may not be the prime minister of the government, wanted to interpret him by, but in the manner of the party in which he belongs, he would urge us all to face the 1990s, so that the Serbian Army, as you have concluded your discussion, through dialogue with some other army, I don't know which, I believe, comes to reconciliation, some historical knowledge of what really happened in the 1990s. I don't mean anything by her exposure, because it's their political dictionary. We have to face something from the '90s all the time, so we're going to have a dialogue with someone to get to a better future, etc. It's one mantra like this that means nothing, but here's something concrete that maybe the MP will support, and that's at the next cabinet session. I suggest that in this new case, which has now been proposed, facing the truths of the 1990s, it has opened up the possibility for me to include in 1999, and since it is not so easy to change the education system in military institutions, we have time to vote together to set up a committee here this morning in parliament, to set up an investigative committee of parliament that will deal with the establishment of a NATO pact on Serbia's health and the environment. I hope that you have already met all of you with the content of this, with particular reference to the impact of the use of missiles with impoverished uranium on the health of Serbian citizens and the environment. So, I suggest, when we finish this investigation, that this part, too, must be included in this educational system, which the colleague suggested, and a new subject of facing the 1990s, so that we can simply get out of Serbia, and our army, and citizens and civilians, and those who served the Serbian Army in 1999 in places that were bombed with the poor uranium, and then we can conduct dialogue with those armies that were poored in uranium dumped here on Serbia's territory, especially in the territory of the southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. It's already been done by the Italian Parliament, we have an excellent report from them. They were investigating the impact of the bombing on their soldiers who served on a mission abroad, which is certainly for them Serbia, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija, who, after that service, have been proven to have cancerous diseases. That's what their parliament has proven. We have reports that I have submitted to certain representatives of the highest authorities in the state. As you can see, the government of the Republic of Serbia is now proposing the formation and will form a co-ordination body that will deal seriously with this topic. We are ready to co-operate, and one of the first to be called to give a statement to that investigative parliamentary committee will certainly be an Italian Parliament MP, the president of their commission, Mr Skanu, who has done his job with honor, who is now no longer an MP for the greatest part and because he was not afraid of the threats he had. Five MPs were in the commission and black on white we have that a causal link has been proven and that Italian soldiers are suffering and dying because they were on missions in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, where they were bombed for poor uranium and did not have adequately prescribed protection. So, in part, I will support your discussion if you agree to include what we have to face with the truth of 1999, so we can conduct a dialogue with all the armies that were on this side or that side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34577	Col. Comic, the basis of your report? (Gordana Comić: If I can get a line.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34578	Thank you. The answer to a question and two remarks. Not to support the commission's agenda, but I'm running for president of the commission, because unlike most of those who talk publicly about poor uranium, I know what this is about. So, you have my vote on the agenda, and you have my proposal to elect me president of the future investigation committee to give the public all the information on the bombing of the poor uranium, and, if necessary, unconventional cluster weapons, although I know it's unfortunate because we are not signatories to the convention or we will be. So that's the first answer. The second is two remarks. I made it clear and loud -- seeking answers to the question that the wars of Serbia lost in the 1990s, in which it won, it is not a topic for the Serbian Army, nor for the members of the defence ministry, but it is a topic for the political public and all those who want to make decisions on what happened, why it happened and what will never happen again. Should we face the reality of the 1990s and conduct dialogue? I think it's a clear observation from the president of the National Assembly. We have faced the past, we are conducting a dialogue which is the official policy of the Serbian government and which I support as an opposition. The dialogue is called normalising Belgrade and Pristina relations. It came as the starting point of facts after NATO intervention, which, with the full law, the National Assembly should propose to all MPs to set up an investigative commission to investigate all the consequences of the bombing. Given the nice words about my political biography, I recommend you to the president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34579	Thank you, colleague Komic. Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34580	Thank you very much. By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34581	I understand you were looking for a replica, colleague Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34582	No, by amendment. The theme is very interesting and very wide.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34583	Excuse me. Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34584	Yeah, you haven't read the proposal. So, the president has already been identified by the proposal and this is Dr Darko Laketic, president of the Health and Family Committee. I assumed you didn't want it, because you had a chance to become president of the commission, that you wanted to form it, during the time the defence minister was former DS President, Mr. Sutanovac. I certainly thank you for saying that you have certain knowledge, that you can testify before this committee. This commission should be very small, I see that there was no debate in the Italian Parliament at all, which will not be covered by a wide spectrum, should be operational and the possibility to participate in it by scientific institutions and professionals, not by us arguing. We're going to discuss reports that we're going to need the commission to present, not turn into something that will be prevented from doing its job at the beginning. We'll invite you to testify, of course, I'm glad you said that and you'll be one of the most important witnesses in front of this investigation committee, because you've now made a statement that you can contribute and that you know something about the use of tape bombs. I thank you for your good intentions to help. I have to say, I really don't know what happened in the 1990s in that sense that I can be an arbiter and say politically now who's guilty of the '90s. I'd like to know who started the machine in the '90s to see a country fall apart. That's what I'd like to know and ask those who know it to help me, and they'd like to face something they know. Although it was 28 years after that, I have continued to deal with politics and I still have no evidence relevant that I could face anything, because no one has yet told us who started the machine of the 1990s, who was arming whom and how civil wars occurred in the republics of the former Yugoslavia around Serbia, because there was no war in Serbia. (Gordana Comic: NATO bombing. There was no war in Serbia. I'm talking about 1999 and it's undeniable, I hope we agree that the NATO pact bombed us cruelly. From the north to the south of our country, we were bombed, destroyed, mutilated, and now our commission will deal seriously with it, because we are obliged to do so in the interests of Serbian citizens. I'm sorry it didn't start before, but it could have already started in 2001, 2002, 2003, and not to help maybe to get some evidence removed, which I have formal knowledge of again. So, I don't know what was going on, I don't know who started the war, and I'm asking you to face the truth of who knows it. Thank you for supporting the decision and for actively participating in the knowledge and discovery of the truth of the consequences suffered by citizens of Serbia and the environment in our country after the bombing of the NATO Pact in 1990 and the use of missiles with impoverished uranium. It's important for Serbian citizens, it's not a couple of excellencies political issues by which anyone should be shared here. It's a common interest, it's not even the interest of any people, it's the interest of all the people who live in this country. So, the answer to why we were bombed with poor uranium? To get the Republic of Kosovo, was that the goal? In 2008 and eight years later, we got what we got thanks to those who bombed us. Once the truth must be told, so we should not be afraid, which I fear, I have been chosen by the citizens of Serbia here as well as all of us, all 250 MPs, to represent their interests, not to represent the interests of those who bombed us, so as little I will hide the truth from the citizens of Serbia. I'm old enough not to have to do anything anymore or not to. Therefore, I decided to honor my career by behind me, behind my colleagues, who will support this decision, to remain a historical trail and report that we have dealt with this issue and that we have proven a causal link between the serious diseases of Serbian citizens and the fact that we have been bombed by missiles with poor uranium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34585	Thank you. By amendment, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34586	Dear Vice President, I don't feel called upon to this amendment, but let me say a few sentences anyway. First of all, when it comes to military education, it is very interesting for Mr. Minister of Military and Ministry, the question of our pitomatists, or candidate for military pitomatists from the former Yugoslav republics, to perhaps take special care of those who are now in neighbouring our countries, such as those of origin, and today they are located in the Republic of Serbia. When I answered my word, I wondered if I'd speak as a historian or as a politician. I see that many care as a politician, that they are trying to abuse refugees for political purposes, and that's a shame, because today we are seen by evasive and displaced faces. When it comes to war, which started here in the 1990s, I don't want to talk like a man of the profession, but I'm referring my colleagues to literature and sources, and they're going to solve this problem on their own in part. When it comes to avoiding and displaced persons and the issue of amendments to this, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the opening part, when I have already taken a few sentences to say, thank the Serbian people in the country for helping the refugees from Croatia and neighbouring countries at the moment when they had the hardest time in their history, and for sharing the last, last bite with refugees. That is what we are obliged to say here today, to be heard by the native people in the Republic of Serbia, as well as those in Montenegro, and in BiH there has moved one part. The fact is that before the arrival of the SNS to power and Alexander Vukic, the problem of the refugees and displaced was not resolved at an adequate level, very minimal. I don't have time, it would take a whole session to dedicate myself here to say what was done before Alexander Vukic's arrival to the government and the SNS, and to the arrival of refugees and displaced persons in the queen, as well as those returnees in the Republic of Croatia, in the Republic of BiH. Let me just say a few sentences. Since 2012, since coming to the power of the SNS, let's see how many returnees were in their home before and how much later. The issue of solving housing problems, not just in the queen... I ask the People's People's People's People's Parliament to take into account the evasive faces, indeed. (The Faith of Radeta: So much, Marco, about how interesting the subject is to them. If they really don't care about these topics, then we shouldn't have started them. Solve the housing problems of those of our evasive faces who have returned to their homeland, so let's see how much. Ninety percent have been resolved since the arrival of the SNS in the womb of origin. Let's see how many housing problems are solved here in the queen of Serbia. The same Mr. Army probably knows well, our Commissioner for Refugees who solved these problems knows very well. It's a matter of property, a matter of work, a matter of pensions and an issue of old foreign savings. I am here publicly, openly, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, looking at you in the face and the citizens of Serbia, and I have been given the responsibility to say it at one session, and here I am now taking the opportunity, because this amendment, to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, who, after 20 years, resolved the issue of the old foreign exchange savings "Yugobanke" Split in Croatia, for the citizens of Serbian nationality and those of Croatia and others who have avoided it. As you know, we passed that law if you remember last year, so we extended it to change now for the new year. For the first time in 20 years and a few years, I say it publicly and openly, I thank you because I received a debt from the savings from that bank. Many problems have been solved, not all of them. Is that enough? No, but it's very much compared to 2012 because I talked about it in the first and second terms and criticized it. and now may be able to make certain remarks, but now the migrants have come from other countries where we have shown the true face of Serbia and Mr. Vulin as minister at that time and now, and many here have criticised those migrants from other countries, have not felt sympathy for their migrants inside when it was most difficult for us. The Serbian people in the country showed a real face for our refugee Serbs from the former republics. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I beg of you, let's not fight over the evasive and displaced faces. Is it good that the association led by Mr. Linta, who runs Savo Strbac and Budimir and many others who lead, is it good to encourage all the problems, will they be able to solve it? He won't. Who's gonna handle it? The state of Serbia and the Commissioner for Refugees, but it is good to encourage daily both here and through the press, or funds for public information. Are there any problems solved? They are many. That's what we know, we have the data practical. Is everyone? No, they're not. By 2017, the international community had set a deadline for solving some problems, so here they are in 2018. If we hadn't been avoided and displaced from other countries, we would have solved it by 2017. This country would solve it. Indeed, even when we make certain political statements, we must take care of Serbs in these former Yugoslav republics and with a certain amount of respect we must speak to these people. I must say that countries of origin have also shown interest when it comes to housing problems, let's take, which have been solved, individual houses, but are not apartments. Here, the problem with Croatia, we have 35,000 housing units and we have to encourage it here and on the street and in the press, etc. So, in order not to take any further time, it's good that this problem was caused by Mr. Linta and Mr. Delic, which he raised, it's not disputed. Of course, the more the merrier. So the more associations – the better they encourage, and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia will solve certain problems more specifically. I have to say, the former government did it very badly. There was an MP sitting here who led the Association of Spinnings, who only solved his problem of entering the apartment of Milice Badge in Obrovec, so here after our criticism, he moved him out, thank him, refugees from Obrovec, etc. So, I'm done with this, let's put a little effort on everybody and respect for these people, get busy dealing with these problems and more pensions, the job experience issue, but he's not even solved in the queen. Here's an example of me, three and a half years financially unrecognized in Croatia, three and a half years and in Kosovo, so that's my country. Financially not recognised because the bombed building containing the papers, etc. It doesn't go easy or fast, but it does, gentlemen. It's going, it's getting a little bit solved, and we've solved a lot of the problem of these refugees. The gentleman on the right side of me... Milorad Mircic: Which one? Now you'll hear which one. When I gave a book to the president of the party, my former party, and theirs today, I got fired in college, gentlemen, I'm looking in your face. I called individuals on the phone, you wouldn't answer. You didn't want to answer that. That's how much you're gonna hold onto every man of yours. Milorad Mircic: What are you making up? You're ashamed of me to make this up. Shame on you to make it up. Milorad Mircic: You're making it up, you're lying. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34587	Please don't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34588	Shame on you. The people know me very well, and the radicals know me, and they know I haven't lied in my life.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34589	Comrade Atlagic, there is no reason to address the MPs directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34590	I got fired, you could have protected me at the time. You didn't mean to. Milorad Mircic: You're lying. How come you're not embarrassed for years? You're just a liar and a hohstappler.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34591	Comrade Atlagic, I will not allow you this kind of debate. (Marco Atlagic: How dare you say that to me? ) Comrade Mircic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34592	We went with these discussions regarding the amendment in a completely different direction. I must, for the sake of correctness and for the sake of full truth, say that refugee and exile issues have dealt with governments before. In 1998, the Government of National Unity was formed and was then working intensively to solve key problems faced by refugees. We can't just take the rubber and cross it off. There's evidence, there's facts, there's living witnesses. I was a little rougher on the previous speaker because he wants to use the system that – here I am, so that there is no egotism, here again I am, pointing out my role in the world revolution. Its role in the world's resolution is insignificant. We deal here with people who have a terrible destiny. These are the military faces that are still in place, as they would say, in disgrace. If they haven't solved the housing problem, whether they've solved the status issue or someone else. Secondly, we here specifically discuss the amendment on the training of personnel who will, among other things, perform that function, as well as those who have performed their post in Republika Srpska and parts of Republika Srpska, experience such fate. We have a lot of problems here. Now we're going to bid on who did more for certain categories of escaped and exiled faces. The tragedy is that no single step has been taken towards restoring property rights in the former republics of the SFRY. We have the most endangered category, if you will, just the military faces, the officers who are being challenged, even going so far as to declare themselves war criminals not to have the right to return their property. Then the formality is seen as an opportunity to be attributed to a war crime in which they were not involved at all, nor have any connection. Honorably, they did their job. They cannot exercise their right to return at least part of the property that they have acquired through their internship. There are countless examples in coastal cities that were the most pronounced case. Why? Because they felt it in Croatia and other republics to be a good business branch, so you declare an officer who was in Lori or any coastal city or in Zemunik for a war criminal, that he was involved in a war crime and has no right to return his property, has no right to make up for it, and he lives here still in those conditions which, frankly speaking, are neither for man either. As far as I'm concerned, a colleague should be telling the truth. The Serbian Radical Party stood behind each member and stands still. No member has left, no individual is allowed to do so, and here we hear fictional stories that no one from the SRS has protected the man who took advantage of the opportunity when the president of the SRS was in prison in The Hague, changed his ideology, changed his party. I guess we should have a little bit of morality, I guess a little bit of that minimum of honesty should be carried inside of us. With a set of circumstances, just to tell the public, I know him and others, when the first steps were done, after all, there is a witness and Maja Gojkovic, who is not present right now, so she can testify. We are proud of everything they have done for the Serbian people, for the SRS, we have no anger at them, but I urge them to keep telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34593	Comrade Atlagic, you want a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34594	Here, I won't talk about morality. I've really proved my morale where it was supposed to be, and I'm not going to say it. But to tell the previous speaker now that I'm lying, let it go to his moral integrity, personality, and manhood. Let me say two sentences. When I dedicated the book to one man, the president of the party, I was fired in a third degree at the Faculty of Philosophy in Nis. I've called three people, I'm not going to tell them in public here, because it's not a level, but if I have to, and I'm going to say, they haven't called me back. The only man who contacted me later today is Dragan Todorovic. This is for the sake of truth and justice, I'm looking into everyone's face. I'm not sorry, that's when I said that night in Nis, TV cameras were broadcasting, that job, not even the other one I had, and I went further and dedicated the book and the other. The way I've been through, that's all I know, Mr. Mircic, that's all I know. (Alexander Martinovic: You witnessed a defence in The Hague. Let's let The Hague and the testimony go, that's another thing. It doesn't matter, history will put it all in place. (Alexander Martinovic: It is important. How does it not matter? No need, citizens know whose witness I was. I must say immediately that I witnessed the defense not only of Slobodan Milosevic, but also of Vojislav Seselj in the historical part, I am now looking into your face. Branko Nadovova, historical part, Nikola Žutić and I wrote, ask the two of them, and I didn't go on vacation for two summers because of it. Ask the party president if he got it there. So much for truth and honesty. And you gentlemen, who are throwing me now, I don't mean Mr. Mircic now, I'm gonna drag you around the liver around the world. So much for honesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34595	Comrade Milicevic, here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34596	Again for the public, I say we are proud of all that members of the SRS have done. We're proud of it. Someone's more, someone's brought in less and contributed to the SRS. And he's not an SRS individual. And when you say the name and the last name, as you just said before, you could say those names that didn't want to get back to you but that's their personal attitude is not an SRS position. You know, a gentleman in history goes in a lot of different ways. You entered the big door by helping Vojislav Seselj in one period, by witnessing the defence of Slobodan Milosevic. Your descendants will not, neither know nor pay attention to these disputes of ours, but they will read that at some point, in time, historically however you will, you have kept to morals, yet you have been moral. That's what every normal person appreciates, and you don't have to point it out, because, you know, egoism comes from the Latin "ego" - me, and when a man starts a sentence with "I" or "man" or a sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34597	Right on line, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34598	I will not respond to such insults, but since the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of the former Yugoslavia know, I will again from myself because I was attacked here. Unwarranted. Well, at least I was in 1990, and I will remain famous for that, because history doesn't forgive me or you or anyone in the Croatian Parliament, and I'm proud of it. I'm not going to stay after The Hague as a witness in history, by which Mr. Mircic, if I'm going to stay written down by something, then morale, and then I guess by scientific papers, eight books and 250 papers that quote scientists around the world. It's so important. The truth is important in all of this, and in this case you don't know much about which I'm talking about, I can see you're not informed. That's why it's not important to defend the truth when you don't know what's true, no matter what party, or the question of wars. I'm not competent as a politician, nor are you to give a court, it's a competent profession and history, and she said hers from the wars in 1990, gentlemen. We are, I gave my position yesterday about it. Here he said what is the attitude and science, not my personal attitude, which is the attitude of historians from the West and the East, but gentlemen should be done and done what we know, to read and monitor sources. Well, here's a question of Jasenovac I go to the 21st and Mr. Martinovic's international rally, I don't see many of them applying from the Republic, in the last two there were two of us, and you run to the media every day you talk, one part talking politically about it, it would be better if they never showed themselves to the media than they say. The truth is quite different than you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34599	Thank you. Replica, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34600	I don't want to continue to replicate and get high with Mr. Atlagic, but just to clarify some things. There are several milestones in Serbia's recent history, and, of course, individuals play a significant role in these milestones. Mr Atlagic, you must understand that the turning point in the recent Serbian history and the name Vojislav Seselj will be written in history which will not take into account, nor what you think, nor what I think, nor what you have said, but will be objective parameters, objective criteria and will be recorded in history, those who supported Vojislav Seselj while he was in The Hague, while he clearly exposed himself as the most famous anitglobalist and those who betrayed him and abandoned him and it is a turning point. You know, at that historic moment, a man should think about something that awaits him in the future. You have one period of history that you know of, which is when mass or largely changed faith, so it went from Orthodox to second religion. You are witnesses like me, that these people still have, their descendants have a great burden. This burden that you want, Mr. Atlagic, because of this fact that at one point you left the fight against globalism led by Vojislav Seselj, you want to transfer those of us who remained consistent. I'm sorry, but we're not going to carry that burden, that burden you have to carry, and how history will explain it. The historians will take everything relevant to history as science.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34601	Right on line, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34602	Well, here I wouldn't really be running the replica, because these are personal estimates, what Mr. Mircic just said. My relationship, Mr. Mircic towards Vojsilav Seselj, is more fair today than...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34603	No personal address, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34604	Mr. Vice President, let him if he hasn't been in this assembly in the last 15 days, so let him see my statements about The Hague and Vojislav Seselj. I don't think he was there at the time, and he's often gone. They're better than he says for certain problems. But when you call me so that you are a fan, I am not a fan of the character or of the works of Titus or of Shechelyov, but I am objective as a historian, not as a party member. In 2003, what I wrote in the preface of a textbook, students today also learn about it. I didn't give up anything, some others gave up. When I returned from The Hague, while you were already pulling my tongue, and Vojislav Seselj saw me at the prison window at Mr Milosevic's house. You know how much you asked me about him? None, as long as you're sitting here today. So much for your honesty to Mr. Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34605	Please, no personal address. Since I see where this is going, I'm setting a three-minute break in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure. [[After a break.]] Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34607	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected representatives of the Serbian Army, the intensity of the amendments I have submitted is to assist the development of the Republic of Serbia but, above all, paying attention to the fight against crime. The development of a society in general, as well as a Serbian one depends primarily on many factors, but one of the most important security is both people and capital, property and resources and so on. Security itself is again conditioned by a large portion of the situation in the military and the state of the defence system in general. Breaking one such system especially if it is done on purpose is probably one of the greatest crimes against its own people and probably the highest level of crime anyone can commit in one society. Unfortunately, the Serbian society had the opportunity to feel something like that, especially between 2007 and 2012. The head of the Ministry of Defence was a man who himself presented the fact that he had completed courses abroad, attending training organised by foreign services at the time. Of course, every completed training and school must be applied, and so must this training completed by the then minister led by the Ministry of Defence. The consequences of his actions and the implementation of the knowledge he gained in America, Garmispartnerchen, in other centres around the Western world are catastrophic by Serbia's military, by the defence system. The consequences are devastation of the defense system and destruction. How's the destruction? I will remind you that 400 armored vehicles of the Serbian Army were destroyed during that period alone. For the sake of comparison, today we are all happy when Minister Vulin, along with the president of the country, is getting 60 armored vehicles and we are happy, indeed, because of this and not only are we citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in the Republic of Serbia, but also our countrymen living in the surrounding countries. The minister's consequences are the destruction of 200 pieces of artillery tools, then the destruction of 23,000 pieces of infantry weapons. Here, comparisons for, today, if I am not mistaken, the Serbian Army has 50,000 active members, and that essentially means that you have destroyed the weapons for half of the Serbian Army in just one short period of time. Do I need to remind myself that 9,000 missile systems have been destroyed? What is most difficult and the worst of all, the minister spoke about it a little yesterday, is the destruction of that human potential and the destruction of morality and confidence in the Army of the Republic of Serbia. We all know how difficult it is to restore confidence in the military and how difficult it was for the then Minister of Defence, Alexander Vukic, today's president, and all ministers, to conclude with today's Minister Vulin. The whole job, of course, was on the agenda and how useful it was for the then minister, it was seen, and today the leader of one opposition party. It was seen in his personal account as well. At the same time, and these personal benefits from the destruction of the Serb army have also been disrupted today by his party comrades. The other day, even until now, Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic is publicly on TV that political honor cannot be reserved for those who, while dealing with politics, have acquired an estate of 300,000 euros in their own account, for those who have acquired a collection of expensive watches and squares at the best construction sites and have finally filed criminal charges against the party's leaders. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I must also tell you that I urge you to continue on this path that you are taking, along with the president of the state, to continue, above all, with the return of trust and morality in Serbia, because I think it is the most important segment. We'll get the weapons somehow, but certainly you'll continue to equip the military, because the safety that the well-armed and equipped Serb army is not only security and never forget it. It is not only security for us living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the security of the Serbian state automatically means security for more than 2.5 million of our countrymen living in the surrounding countries. Please never lose sight of that fact. That's it. I don't want to talk about this anymore. The very symbolism and purpose of this amendment is to draw attention to all your future cadets and members of the military-school institutions to be their symbolic reminder that everything that happened in that period never happens again in our society. That's exactly what the amendment I've submitted is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34608	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. My colleague Repac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to welcome the minister with his associates and fellow MPs. The amendment I have made concerns improving health care in relation to the military education of the Republic of Serbia. Military education is of particular importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia. It is a complex process that affects all levels of life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There's something else I'd like to say. Even at the time of the Principality of Serbia, we have an attempt to establish a High Military School within the Turkish Empire. On the proposal of Ilija Garashanina, an Artillery School was established which in 1850, as the first Military Higher Education Institute, turns to military academy, which has a tradition of 160 years of existence, to the approval of even Milos Obrenovic. It was attended by all our great army greats, starting with Živojin Music and not counting, for our colleagues numbered all our greats. I have to mention him because he's our biggest strategist studying at all the world's military academys. Today in Serbia, military education is planned and organised by the Ministry of Defence and the University of Defence in Belgrade, which holds the post of higher education. As part of the university, we have the Military Academy and the Medical College of the Military Medical Academy. The Ministry of Defence launched the establishment of a high school, and in 2011 at VMA Medical School to educate the staff for military-sanitary, health and military needs in one place. The Faculty of Medicine at VMA was founded as an educational, scientific, research and military-health work. The Faculty of Medicine at VMA is unique in the country and region as it combines a medical and military call. The goal of training these cadets, students of the Faculty of Medicine at VMA, is to create experts to improve health care in the Republic of Serbia. The VMA Medical Faculty is conducting health care for military insurance and members of the Serbian Army. By improving military education at VMA Medical School, we are also promoting the health care of the civil sector of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34610	Thank you. National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Dragisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34611	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected colleagues, Mr. Ministers with associates, distinguished generals and officers of the Serbian Army, my amendment refers to the development of the university system in the Republic of Serbia and the contribution that military education has in this sense. The first thing to know is that military education, according to counterpart Repac, has a two-century tradition in Serbia. There are few countries in the world who can boast of such a long tradition of military education and such results as military education has achieved. It should be borne in mind that the overall university education and development of higher education in Serbia, which ran in comparison with the creation of a modern Serbian state, included the development of military education, so today if we are trying to talk about higher education in Serbia and the greatest reach it has achieved, there is no way we can do so without having a view and military education and all the results of high military education so far in our country. There is no doubt if we have in mind the history of Serbia's war, if we take into account the wars and battles in which the Serb army came out as a winner and in which it was celebrated, that neither one of these battles had the advantage of the people, had the upper hand in the technique. What we were superior to is the ability and education of our officers. It should not be forgotten that the Colombian battle is won by the genius of our officers. It should not be forgotten that in the Balkan wars the victories were won precisely because we had high-quality officers, that the Army had avoided destruction in 1999, avoided losses and managed to preserve most of the people and techniques, precisely thanks to the ability of our officers. Therefore, it is not too much to say that the heart of the Republic of Serbia's security and defence system is, in fact, exactly the military academy and the knowledge that is being obtained there. The Belgrade University today as Serbia's oldest and most respected university, which holds a very high position on the Shanghai List, is closely linked to the military education system today and has been so in the past 50 and over years. So, the professors of the Military Academy and the professors of Belgrade University work closely together in scientific and research projects, in teaching, especially if we have in mind technical colleges that practically give diplomas and cadets of military academias, if we have in mind the programmes that we had to obtain a joint degree, then it is clear that this synergy that exists between the military education system and the university in Serbia, of course, does not underestimate, and other universities, but above all, the University of Belgrade, gives such good results. The result of all this is, of course, an increased interest in studying at military academys, high quality that achieves cadets of military academys. Today, when we see that in all international missions, multinational operations involving members of the Serbian Army, there is a high quality, high expertise and professionalism of our staff. This law creates conditions for further development of higher education, higher military education in Serbia, and it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence recognise high military education as a significant resource and not just on words. If you look at what the Military Academy looks like today, today the Military Academy is a construction site. The reconstruction of the sports center was done, the reconstruction of all objects, the quality of life of cadets at the Military Academy. It is the most concrete expression of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what the Ministry of Defence and what the President of the Republic, as commander-in-chief of the armed forces, think about military education. It was really hard to separate that much money when you have on all sides the demands to finance different things, but I think the real thing was to invest in the Military Academy and that every dinar that was invested in the Military Academy would come back hundreds of times. I call on the MPs, regardless of the parliamentary group they belong to, to give this really important law in voting day support and to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34612	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Puzic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34613	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, it is really hard to talk after an expert like Professor Dragisic, about military education, but here I would like to say today a few words about the amendment that I have submitted in order to point to international co-operation and military education. Although some MPs, we have had the opportunity to hear the previous days, have disputed the participation of the Serbian Army in international missions, I believe they are a serious factor in our educational staff of the Serbian Army. In addition to the primary goal of participating in peacekeeping missions around the world, I am sure that the secondary effect of these peacekeeping missions is further training and education of personnel of the Serbian Army. By exchanging experience with members of peacekeeping missions, Serbian Army personnel are working to improve education, while also developing personally, as well as improving international co-operation and Serbia's position. Representatives of the Army of Serbia and the MUP are very happy to see participants in international missions, as is the constant increase of Serbian military members in world peace missions. These same members of the peace missions are very happy to see both observers and participants, as they are very often rewarded and rated with the highest marks. I believe that the task of the Serbian Army is not only to strengthen security capacities, defend the sovereignty and integrity of the country, but also to help citizens in emergency situations and peace, which is undoubtedly the Serbian Army and showed in the floods that hit us in 2014, and, under the leadership of then, Minister Bratislava Gasic. I believe, Mr. Minister, that the infrastructure capacities of the Serbian Army should and should be put at best in the role of education, both military and civil education. Whether or not, it will show time, but I think it is always better and smarter to put military facilities in function of education than to other purposes, which tells an example of military warehouses in Kovanluk, which was converted into a customs facility in 2012. That wouldn't have been bad, it would have been even commendable, if that move had been meaningful, if that military facility, no longer used, had been brought in for a more meaningful purpose, e.g. The school, not in the middle of a settlement, urbanly populated, built an object of economic intent, which is impossible to reach and is not possible to design roads, or to build new ones for the traffic of smaller freight trucks up to five tonnes, and not 25 tonnes, which need to go that way for the purpose of the facility. But then it took a yellow company to build an object, of course, by which they were famous, by building objects in the meadow, without access to traffic and without any further meaningful, useful ideas. In 2012, Miodrag Djidic, of course, was to be released under a stick in the middle of the populated town of Kovanluk, an assembly facility that spent four million euros. Why am I bringing this up? Because the assembly facility is now falling apart after only five years of use and four million euros have been spent. A job was to be given to a company whose subcontractor was then the son of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, then current. Citizens don't forget that. Citizens, especially Kovanluka, don't forget that, because their children have to go through trucks every day, and which is not adequate for that, and very often protest the team, but of course, there is no possible solution to that problem. Every day their children are threatened by traveling on their way to school. Mr. Minister, I ask you to place future military facilities more often in the role of education, both military and civilian, than in such unsuspecting functions. Me and my colleagues from my parliamentary group will support this bill in voting day, and I call on my colleagues to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34614	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34615	Thank you. Dear Ministers, gentlemen of the officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment potentials modernization in the context of overall development. I think it absolutely has its place in this bill, because modernization should be one of the priorities if we want to have a capable and powerful army that will be a guarantee of stability and peace to whom we seek. Especially if we have in mind years of not investing in the security sector and in Serbia's Army, if we have 12 years of the period when the army was humiliated, when, as we heard, the tanks were destroyed and melted, when the weapons were destroyed, sold out Bud-Why etc. At the time of the DS government, if we have all this in mind, then it's even more important to modernise as such. I'm glad the military budget for this year is bigger than it was, say, last year. It's increased by almost a quarter, actually by 23.57%. I am also pleased that the domestic industry is developing combat systems such as Alas, Morava, Milos, Lazar, Nora, Fire, so that is something we can be proud of and that is something that, after a long time, creates hope that Serbia is becoming a respectable military force in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34616	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34617	Thank you, Your Honor. This is my first amendment to the bill, and it's about improving economic growth. Education and innovation are the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as these are key drivers of growth and development. We know that education is the key to economic growth. We have already heard that the World Bank has given its positive opinion and prediction when it comes to economic growth and public debt reduction. The IMF also gave its positive opinion and the European Commission, when it comes to European reforms. The expected growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2018 is 4.5%. The growth of the Serbian economy for the first three months is significantly higher than the average growth in the region, as well as in EU countries. Dear gentlemen, the model of economic growth is changing. Previously, 10 years ago, economic growth is based on borrowing and consumption, and now economic growth is based on sustainable sources, primarily on production, innovation, education, investment. Through the team work of each member of our government, we have achieved projected GDP growth, which enables us to create new jobs, increase wages and pensions, which means a perspective for all young people in Serbia. A strong economy for strong Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34618	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34619	The Honored Chairman, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, by submitting the amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on military education that sets out the objective and principles of military education I wanted to install into the text of the law a provision that recognises military education, but also education in general as an important factor in economic development and growth. As a significant institution of the state, one of the foundations of each and every one of our countries, the army regains that old reputation in society, restores citizens' trust and imposes itself as a guarantee not only of security, but of society as a whole and of its development. By obtaining modern equipment placed in the function of domestic production, which is absolutely competitive in the market with quality, and especially at the price, as well as donations from the Russian Federation, as well as the recent stay of our Minister Vulin in Belarus and the agreement with our friendly country, the army is catching up with the developed world. The years of devastation of this institution have left a mark, above all, on the lack of equipment. By investing in modern weapons systems, as well as in human capacities, and as this legislative proposal shows, the Serbian Army can be the driver of our economy, not the burden and problem it was during the Democratic Party's rule. By reviving the dedicated industry, by producing the latest weapons systems found by buyers in the world's wide variety of countries, our military industry has become an important branch of industry and a recognizable seal of our knowledge. Such a thing would not be possible without quality personnel traditionally owned by the Serbian Army. Therefore, by establishing a system of education in line with the specificities of this area, we will manage to bring the education system in line with the overall reform of the military and to establish an efficient and sustainable system in addition to the basic goal of defending the state. Only then will the army be supported by social and economic development. I therefore call on all my colleagues to support my amendment to Article 1 of this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34620	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34621	Thank you, Your Honor. Like most of my amendments that I have recently submitted to the draft laws, and to this very high-quality bill, which I really have no objection and objections to, I have tabled a few amendments to strengthen the efforts and efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, and also through this law, this law on military education. I must point out here that there are 17 sustainable development objectives and 169 sub-targets of this same sustainable development, as well as three pillars of sustainable development – economics, society and the environment. I must also point out that the comprehensive framework for public policy concerns all these 169 sub-targets. That the law is good and that in this way I only wanted to improve it and strengthen the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have just said, but that the military is doing the right thing and that they should take care of their property, and above all about the state and this community. I would ask the minister to, unlike some previous period, where someone built a magnificent building near the Kings, in a village called Ships, at a wonderful military airport, "The Boats, but didn't think that the beautiful building had been going down for years. It's probably open before the 2012 elections and it really has a beautiful control tower and it's all right, but it doesn't have a runway. I would ask the minister to come up with solutions with the resolution ministries and finally get that runway ready and the airport will start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34622	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Todorovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34623	Thank you. Dear Ministers Vulin with co-workers from the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army and the BIA, I wanted to complete this proposal for a law on military education, and it concerns inclusive education. Inclusive education is an answer to the various educational needs of children. Taking part in quality inclusive primary and secondary education, children from vulnerabilities increase the chance of a better life and a more significant participation in society. Also, the same practice of action is seen in both the military and the national defence sectors. Being a woman in the Army, therefore a soldier, 30 years ago was something that was not considered commonplace, and today three students are the best among all in the 136th class of the Military Academy. According to the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, in school... Chairman, please allow me to speak. In School 2016/17, 15.2% of cadets were received in the year, while in school 2015/16. 35 girls graduated a year. For enrolment in military high school, of the 1067 candidates reported, the girls were 485, of which 22 girls were admitted. In the first grade of high school, which this year formed a class of 21 students, two girls. So not only are Serbs more interested in military uniforms today, but they are, as they claim, more persistent in the sense that they are less likely to give up their military obligations. This year, out of 867 candidates, as many as 454 members of the better sex applied for military high school, while the reported men were 413. Analysis of the age structure of women employed by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia shows that the most women have in the categories of officers and professional soldiers from 25 to 30 years of age. In the category of subordinates, the largest number of women is between 40 and 45 years of age, and in the category of civilian persons, the highest number of women is between 50 and 55 years of age. The largest number of women employed by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army belongs to the category of military officers and military deputies, 15.32% of them military deputies and military officials. An increase in women's representation has taken place in the categories of officers and professional soldiers, and there has been a reduction in their representation only in the category of civilian persons. Today, in 2018, more than 200 women officers work in the Serbian Army, among which three women have the rank of colonels. All of these data indicate positive reflections and echoes on critical groups of our population and shifts that are visible, and in the context of the process of further encouraging inclusive measures within our society as a whole. These are encouraging parameters, but we are all aware that there is a long and hard way ahead of us in efforts to ensure equal and appropriate treatment for all the vulnerable groups on the social scale of our society. Today, there are good examples in some textbooks of the Military Academy on a newer date, as well as in the material from the training course of the students of multinational operations that contain positive examples of anti-discrimination for all observed vulnerable groups. At the same time, cadets and cadets of the Military Academy, as well as students of the Military High School in their midst, are increasingly unacknowledging discrimination, and this concludes that it is almost no longer in the military education system, nor in the defence system, which is for every praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34624	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34625	Just to thank all MPs who have really been impatient and carefully studied these laws and made appropriate contributions and suggestions. In terms of gender equality in our army, it is absolutely undeniable and indeed the army of Serbia is infinitely proud of every member of our army that is proven not only to be exceptional professionals, but also exceptional people. Besides, that's how it was in history, that's how it's always been, and it's certainly never gonna change. Just to get to know the public that currently in our armed forces, therefore there are over 10% of Serbia's members in the military, in peacekeeping operations over 12% of its members, and in the Ministry of Defence itself, about 48%. So you see that representation is extremely high, much higher than even in some armies that talk a lot about how far away they've gone from us when it comes to equality. But, as you can see, the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defense certainly have a lot of reasons to be proud of what they're doing and thank you for the opportunity you gave me to say that. I'm going to use this time that I've only got to sum up some more of the suggestions that were heard here. One of them was that our pitomatists enroll in the Military Academy. They're already doing it, it's regulated by the bill. Thus, Article 52 states: “The study programmes of basic integrated academic studies carried out at the University are enrolled and attended by schools for admission to the professional military service of citizens and pupils of secondary military schools. ” Paragraph 5 of this Law states: “The person from the public of St. 1 and 3 of this article shall be registered on the basis of a competition called by the University in accordance with his general act. ” So we regulate it by our internal acts and rules, and that, as you can see, is regulated. All our pitomats are automatically going through the right list. Of course, they're going to the Military Academy. You know, when you guys build a boy for four years, a girl, spends four years in our military high school, he's already a soldier. Of course we don't want to lose such a valuable shot. We'll talk about other things. I'm way out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34626	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34627	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with colleagues, respected officers, I hope, Mr. Minister, that in some of the following draft laws we will see from your associates and some woman in the leadership post next to you. I think it'll qualitatively fix the secure image, the one you're talking about, in the form of digits that are really impressive when it comes to women's participation. My amendment referred to the 2030 Agenda. It is precisely the Agenda that speaks of 17 objectives and 169 sub-targets for the development of the world in general when it comes to economic growth and the development of society in a new phase of design in general relations and political and economic and social, at the time of the new industrial revolution, at the time of digitisation, but also at the time of the struggle for new energy resources. This is a confirmation in fact that this is the way the world must go, because the confirmation is that in Berlin on 17 March there was a large conference of 60 countries of the world in Germany, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Germany said – unless the 2030 Agenda was implemented in the world, there will be war and this great world war. Of course, every country will work to avoid this and not participate in it, and we have had the opportunity to see in these foreign-political relations, that certain EU countries have not participated in war operations, but Serbia must turn to itself and turn around when the military is at issue and when it comes to the education of our staffs for the future and what has shown is that it is thinking that many security challenges are around Serbia and that, above all, we need to turn to ourselves in many situations, that when we talk about military neutrality as our policy and strategy that we are somewhere under great pressure from already divided alliances. Because of this, when we are talking about amendments to military education in general, it is very important to say that in 2012 Serbia came up with a completely different concept than it is now, in addition to the demilitarisation that was carried out permanently by 2012 through the melting of tanks and large quantities of weapons, through the release of officer personnel, especially those who participated in the defence of the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia in our southern province of Kosovo, as well as the participation of many major development projects of the Serbian state in the area of the military industry in other countries. In 2012, The SNS when it took part in the government of the Republic of Serbia and when it had its own defence minister, Mr Alexander Vukic, and when the state secretary was then a recent minister, Mr Djordjevic had to face first and foremost a major financial collapse not only of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also of the Serbian Army. At the time, it was very difficult first to train everything needed for the normal work of the Republika Srpska Army with the funds it had. Of course, with the help of coalition partners and all entities in society when it comes to the Ministry of Finance, she managed to maintain a simple positive course when she implemented a reform of the complete economy with great difficulties and, of course, with all these difficulties she had successfully dealt with all four years. So today we have the result of these economic reforms of fiscal consolidation we have a 4.5% growth, we have a planned deficit for the first three months of 40 billion dinars, and we end up with a surplus of 6.1 billion dinars. This shows, in fact, that now the opportunity for the 2018 budget, that the military budget of 70 billion dinars has been increased compared to last year by almost a quarter, which is 11.6 billion dinars more than in 2017, has been allocated to the military. Of course, these funds will be defined for the promotion and purchase of new equipment, but also for the remonting of existing equipment. In order for the Serbian Army to do all this, it must have adequate personnel that can easily cope with the tasks it was assigned in 2018. A country with a war tradition and a violent history such as Serbia must think about saving its personnel first of all, and on the other hand working on them and perfecting it. Serbia has always had good military members who have graduated from prestigious schools, but for God's sake and its doctrine when we talk about running certain war operations was shown at prestigious universities both in the West and in the East. Thus, such a trend in the era of new light, the new development of the economy, the development of a new industry that has given us some development of technical and technological sciences simply shows the way Serbia is heading both military-technical institutes and the Military Academy is currently working with young personnel on promotion and shoulder-to-shoulder industries of the world in the military area can be handled and therefore it is important that we personnel produced by these military and educational institutions are truly jealous of them and are taking care of them. Today, the citizens of Serbia are very sensitive especially when it comes to the Serbia Army in general, when it comes to patriotism and about the fight for freedom, and for this it should really commend your insistence and initiative that on 4 February you proposed as a day to mark Serbia, it is a day of Serbian warrior, in fact it is one historic reconciliation of all warriors who have fought in the name of some policies in the past, because ultimately Serbia has lost a lot of men's heads in all these wars, and in the end today we are fighting to fix that demographic picture that says that indeed when you have 38,000 fewer citizens in Serbia. First of all, we need to lead a wise and foreign and military policy and indeed the Government of the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the Ministry of Defence and... Especially when one policy of military neutrality needs to be preserved. What we need to say is that development projects, like we had the chance to hear that Nora, Alas, Morava, then Lazar, the Fire are actually the development projects of our personnel. People who worked in our institutes and who today are recognised through the practically complete industry that we give through production and we place on certain markets and as such we essentially show that our staffs have a future, especially those who finish the prestigious schools of military and educational institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, this agenda, which is 20, 30, is proposed as one of the most important agendas of development and economy and society in the future, is in fact one of the proposals that the Serbian Army will also deal with in the future with all development projects in the work and ensure sustainable growth and development of our economy and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34628	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of my amendment is to create a link between military education and strengthening the security capacities of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that Serbia can be raised by years of quality military education, both at the level of secondary military schools, especially when it comes to the highest military education. I felt that the Ministry of Defence should pay attention to the fact that the Serbian Army is modernized day by day, that or by itself we produce, as my distinguished colleagues have repeatedly pointed out, our dedicated industry itself produces the most modern fighting systems. On the other hand, we supply ourselves with the most modern fighting systems from friendly countries. Thanks above all to the wise policy of the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, the whole of Serbia could see that we had practically received six Migov 29 gifts, that we had received 30 armored vehicles and 30 tanks. You've announced helicopters and planes from also brotherly and friendly Belarus. What's important is that people who are officers of the Serbian Army tomorrow are trained enough to manage, handle and command soldiers who work on these state-of-the-art combat systems. In that sense, I think it is very important that we work on one permanent training of our officers, not only when they study, or during basic studies, but we must take care of one permanent lifelong education, so that our officers, officers of the Serbian Army, will always step forward with their knowledge, skills and capabilities with the combat systems provided by the Ministry of Defence, that is to say, the Serbian Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34630	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34631	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To take the opportunity to rely on the presentation of a respected colleague, Martinovic, and that everything he said about military technical co-operation with us friendlyly and as he said, and we share an opinion, the brother countries are fine. But to me, it raises a series of questions. I couldn't agree more in the part where he's talking about the training of officers, but the problem is that these officers should have someone to train and master everything they need and I have no doubt about it, but they should have someone to help them, and they're just regular soldiers. Since what the Serbian Dvora movement has been saying for years, we are pushing for the return of military service, we do not have an army. Yesterday I asked the question – what are we going to do when we adequately train our officers in schools, when we get God's thanks from friendly and brotherly countries of arms, and we don't have enough soldiers to help in service and serve that mechanization. Why do I say that when we don't have enough soldiers? We don't have a regular army, the minister has been avoiding for days to answer the question why does a constant drop in the number of soldiers under contract? I asked, I couldn't find the correct number, but I found only for the AP Vojvodina that in December 2015 that number was 1594, 2016 201 soldiers less, or 1393, 2017 another 71 soldiers less, or 1323. What are we gonna do about it? We'll have one great thing, we'll have a technique, we'll have highly trained command personnel, but we won't have an army. Or we can change something, so it's not all that much, something's going on here. I ask well-intentioned, or let's change that number to raise or return what the Serbian Dvora vasda movement suggests - regular military service and be proud that we served that military service when we served it. Of course, I'm not that bad and those stories about whether Mr. Secretary served, there are people who, for various health reasons, have the right not to serve a military term. (People's MP Radoslav Milojic throws it away. Well, well, I don't get into that story and I don't want to talk about it. For example, for my city the mass of people had elevated bilirubin in their blood. Guys who are good, healthy people, but they just have these health checks that are like that. Either we go back or we take care. Our number's getting smaller. I'm not going to tell you the media written, who say that on an annual basis every year from 800 to 1,000 soldiers per contract is less. Am I wrong or are they lying to the paper, or is this information I've been given not accurate? But we'll have this problem, high-tech military personnel, so, officerly, but with whom, we won't have an army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34632	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I did not respond to the comments coming from the Dvori parliamentary group that we lost, or that the Serbian Army left as thousands of soldiers, officers and officers were said yesterday. First, you have to keep an eye on all of you who talk about the numerous states of the Serbian Army that this is information, i.e. information of extreme security importance, and that the Ministry of Defence and how it counts, and in that sense your insistence on telling you exactly how many officers and officers have left the Army of Serbia, I think it undermines and threatens the integrity and security of the military itself, and I think that you would have to take care of it as a serious man. That's one thing. The second thing, personally, I think that for the sake of the daily political reasons, you and the president of your parliamentary group have absolutely exaggerated with the number of people who have left the Army of Serbia. To say for one army, which is a number of groups, such as Serbia's Army, that it has been abandoned by thousands of people, it practically means that we do not have an army of Serbia anymore. The citizens of Serbia are witnesses of the fact that we have the Army and that these figures that you're talking about are absolutely unrealistic. What I also want to say to you, you have all, the complete opposition, welcomed the heavy measures taken by the Serbian government in late 2013 and early 2014. You were talking about how we stole the pensioners, how we ruined the workers, how we took someone else's stuff, someone else's stuff, etc. (President: You are bringing the end of your colleague Martinovic. ) Now you too are slowly becoming aware of the need for these measures and that these measures have healed the Serbian economy. Thanks to these measures, we are today able to strengthen the Serbian army. What do you think if the economy had been able to get us from 2012, would we be able to get the most modern fighting systems we're getting today and that the Serbian Army would be in this state if we had the same economy as it was four years ago?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34634	I thank Mr. Martinovic. (Dragan Vesovic: Replica. ) Slowly fellow Vesovicu, first right to the replica of Minister Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34635	Thank you. As I said, there are data that are not spoken of publicly, but right now to tell you that the situation in the Serbian Army is significantly improving, we have bigger salaries than we have ever had. That's a fact. Can we carry those salaries on the market every time? We can't, and we'll probably never be able to. You know, one IT engineer, the military will never be able to pay a thousand euros or two or three thousand euros. We are doing certain changes to the regulations and we are enabling, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, and based on orders from Commander-in-chief Alexander Vukic, to our scientists, researchers, both at the VTI and at other institutes, the possibility of their special stimulation. Will that be enough? I don't know, but I do know that such an IT expert who finishes our Military Academy on the market costs a lot. Probably a lot more than any army can pay for. When we talk about soldiers under contract, their salary is higher than it was before fiscal consolidation, the largest ever. That's not enough either, because the more economically powerful Serbia is, the more expensive certain qualification profiles will be on the market, and the more the state will not be able to wash it out every time. That's why there's the continent, so you have to look at the continent. This means, here, by the decision of you, honourable MPs, I thank you for supporting these laws, a member of the army will have the advantage of hiring his family within the army, and this is the reason to come, such as the reason that the better treatment, or treatment that is adapted to him, is also a reason for him and his family to be satisfied that he is in the army. Non-money prizes which are the use of our vacation facilities for members of the army under special conditions and it is one of the mechanisms. We've introduced solidarity aid for the birth of a child and it's one of the mechanisms. We've increased compensation for our cadets, for our pittoms, for soldiers on a regular, or for voluntary service of the military term, and that's one of the mechanisms. Of course, residential construction and it's one of the most important mechanisms. So, but you see, you have to make a whole. There's not enough one, because there's one, one won't solve anything. Only all together will solve this problem and, of course, what we've talked about and military education will solve the problem, solve and restore morals, restore civil defense within the Ministry of Defense, and you'll get our citizens to know the values of the military from which people need to be part of the army. When you get to know something, you can love it. So, just the whole society, but indeed the whole society will be able to contribute to this, and this is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that all the countries of the world are facing. All the countries of the world are facing this problem, from the Russian Federation to the United States. Especially as the economic situation progresses, so you have this problem that's bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34636	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour, and we continue at 3:00. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue today's work. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Zeleg, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34638	Thank you, Chairman. Honored Ministers, Honored Officers, to Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the law on military education to add attitude 3 aimed at ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to state administration. The proposed law aims to prescribe military education as part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia and as an action of particular importance for security and defence, which is directly in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. The government led by the SNS, on the basis of an agreement proposal from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Defence, is closer to defining the conditions and means of national action in the area of defence, as well as the position of researchers as regards the characteristics related to research objectives. The job of the state administration is precisely to ensure a positive environment to harmonize the application of the Law in the field of education and technological development with defence laws. The state administration aims to bring the law into line and facilitate its application in order to achieve the greatest effects ultimately aimed at ensuring the stability of the Republic of Serbia, which is the basis for economic development. The government of the Republic of Serbia has set itself an important goal by implementing SNS policy in this year, which is to secure a roof over its head for members of the Republika Srpska Army and the Security Service. Locations have been set in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kralje, Kragujevac and Vranja for the construction of 7,500 apartments. The construction will be attended by domestic companies, which is in the spirit of the policy promoted and implemented by SNS and Aleksandar Vucic. Despite the fact that the government is building apartments and preparing the Army and the military system for the defence of the Republic of Serbia, we have had the opportunity to listen to disdain from those whose representatives have destroyed military operations in the past, sold it into old iron and left the borders of the Republic of Serbia and the sky above the Republic of Serbia unprotected. On the effects of the government and the minister's work, the best court has brought citizens to the polls, because they said that this policy that has given them confidence and security has given them confidence, and the opposite side is insufficiently assessed by the government of the Republic of Serbia to ensure peace and stability by citizens. In order to make the law more effective, I suggest that the proposed amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34639	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34640	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 1st Article of the Law on Military Education to further define this 1st member and subject matter of the law. When we talk about education, this is actually about harmonising the text of laws relating to the military, the police and the text of the Education Law. It is very important that the military education system is in line with the Bologna Declaration. It is of particular importance for defence and through this law solutions are proposed to enable the full integration of military education into the country's education system. However, when we talk about military education, about the preparation of personnel, about perfecting and preparing for the needs of Serbia's defence and the Serbian Army, we really need to talk about what has been done when it comes to the conditions in which this system works, about what has been done for "Serb Army" and about Serbia's own equipment. By 2012, "Second" had recorded only losses, landed and stagnated, worked with antiquated machines and really could not deliver the results it has achieved today. By investing in halls, in the purchase of new machinery and equipment, by investing in the stability of the contract, in modernising production, it has actually become an area that can provide support to the military, which is for us proudly, which makes profit and which actually employs and many people, with the acquisition of new machines. "Second" products that are highly appreciated and sought in the world and what is very important for our military and what represents the most modern asset of the Serbian military are what the dedicated industry produces, and these are also "Milos" and "Fire" and "Lazar" and that is what we all pride. This is part of the reform carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a reform relating to both the economy and the defence and education, and is just giving results. Through this investment and reforms, we can achieve that our capacities are strengthened and that we are more ready to meet the challenges as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34641	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34642	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, respected BIA representatives, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs and above all respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the 1st member of the Law on Military Education because I wanted to further define the bill and I consider it important to define military education and ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I would especially refer to the development of the health system this time. It is very important that the Medical Faculty of the Military Academy also recognized the importance of the participation of military doctors in peacekeeping missions, so through the education of cadets, they prepare them through the programme for challenges that will be met in the participation of peacekeeping missions. In this way, when participating in peacekeeping missions, our members, members of the Serbian Army, acquire new knowledge, in very complex, specific, and we must say emergency circumstances. This is very important because the participation of our members of the Republika Srpska Army in peacekeeping missions raises the credibility of our Military Academy, and we all know how important this is for this institution. What I would stress on this occasion is that our doctors are highly appreciated. Their knowledge and their humanity during their stay in other countries and by showing help are said much. On this occasion, I would also like to stress that many Serbian civilians are gravitating to the Military Academy. On this occasion, I would like to commend first of all our Ministry of Health, which recently provided angio-sala equipment at the Krushevac General Hospital, which will reduce the number of patients gravitating to the Military Academy to diagnose and treat certain heart disease. Let's step forward. It means that all our institutions and all our ministries are doing well, and that's why we have huge citizens' support. Dear Ministers, we will support these good laws and certainly will always be with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is for the benefit of all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34643	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34644	Thank you, Chairman. This law regulates the objectives and principles of military education in relation to the education system of the Republic of Serbia, and also achieves specific goals stemming from the nature of the military service. Of course, in general, any law can be good, the law can be great, but something that no law has, that is what members of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, the BIA and the Ministry of the Interior bear within themselves, which is patriotism and love for their country, towards Serbia. These people meet daily with the defence of the sovereignty and territorial integrity and security of our country, both externally and within Serbia, from people who are trying to destroy our country's security for a handful of dollars, as they say, or a bit of subjugation and half-tronic authorities. That's why these kicks we have on the outside, the state clearly recognizes both the wise and determined policy neutralises. Much more painful and insidious blows come from within people who exhibit an unprecedented dose of hatred for their country, mudring it and humiliating it at every step, whenever they can and whenever they arrive and wherever they arrive. Such people are already clearly recognized in the Serbian people, and they have been through the history of the Serbian people, until today and therefore great respect and gratitude for all the security structures of great sacrifice so that our country becomes safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34645	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34646	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an attempt by the amendment to make this bill an emphasis on education and strengthen the definition of our country's development through investment in the future. This investment will return multiple times through the better and healthier lives of the present and future generations. Military education has always been very important in Serbia because of our geopolitical position, and influence at the level of the medical doctrine has led to the fact that military health institutions have always preceded the improvement of the comprehensive health system of the Republic of Serbia. The continued training of personnel in military health institutions as well as their accreditation creates the possibility of raising the overall level of health care standards not only for military insurance, but also for all of our citizens. The Belgrade Military Medical Academy is a top medical and scientific research facility with an internationally recognised reputation and a 174-year-old tradition. Within its 27 clinics, and 17 institutes, specialist polyclinics, national center for the control of poisoning, emergency center, the transplant centre in this institution is reviewed annually by 230 000 citizens i.e. 40% of civilian insurance. Since a few years ago, VMA has been fully integrated into the Republic Health System and provides the highest quality health services to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34647	Thank you. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Col. Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34648	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as the subject of this law is, among other things, planning and organising military education as well as other issues of importance for the functioning of military education and for its development, I would like to stress this amendment on the importance of considering the issue of all modes of traffic as an extremely important area in the functioning of any system, as well as as as part of a single state's defence and security system. Since traffic and traffic infrastructure are of great importance for the development and good functioning of the system, I note that Serbia's military should also have a special accent in this area in order to include all the advantages of the traffic in the defence system, and members of the military have the necessary knowledge and skills. Coming to the power of the SNS and the head of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic resorts to solving the accumulated problems of Serbian citizens. Systemically and responsibly approaches solving problems in all areas, as well as in this area, making sure that the Serbian Army strengthens its own capacities and protects national security, especially by making efforts to improve systems of all levels of education, including military. As such a bill provides for and continuous training of teaching staff, improvement of educational-experienced work and as the implementation of a special training programme for professional members of the Serbian Army and civil servants is envisaged, I am sure that a special accent, i.e. special traffic management at all levels of education, would certainly contribute to the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34649	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34650	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose this amendment to be in Article 1. The bill adds attitude 3 – military education provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of medical institutions. This further defines Article 1 of the proposal. The first civilian hospital in Pomoravlje was founded in gurija, and the first district hospital, also in gurrije in 1906. Then and now the general hospital remained the most modern hospital in that part of Serbia. Today, it provides preventive, socio-medical, diagnostic, therapeutic-rehabilitation services in a range that meets the needs and requirements of the Pomorava population. Educational and teaching research is also being carried out, with the General Hospital in Ćupria as a teaching base for the Middle School of Medicine since its founding in 1958 and for the High Medical School of Professional Studies, also since its founding in 1998. The establishment of high-tech diagnostic apparatus such as scanner, mammographer, gamma camera, ultrasonic apparatus of various purposes EGM, hyperbaric chamber, general hospital is at an enviable level of providing health services to its insurance companies. Unlike neighbouring hospitals in Pomorava County, he provides medical services to his patients within the framework of the Regional Centre for Treatment and Treatment of Burns, the Regional Hemodialysis Centre, the Department of Infectious Diseases, Neurology, Neurology, Maxiofial Surgery, Plastic and Reconstruction, Cardiology with Coronary Unit and Pace Maker Center, Hyperbaric Chambers, Nuclear Medicine. These are services that separate this hospital from the neighboring hospitals in Pomorava County. Thanks to the understanding of the Ministry of Health, the government of the Republic of Serbia has approved a general hospital during the last three years of admission to permanent working relationship of a total of 39 performers of doctors, nurses and not medical staff, and during the same period, the Ministry of Health defined more than 20 million dinars for both medical equipment and reconstruction of operating halls, infirmarys, sanitary nodes. Given that the largest military polygon in the Republic of Serbia, Pasuljanska Livade, is located only 20km from Cupre, I believe it is necessary to continue with further material investment and human development by General Hospital Cupri, as this means investing in the security and security of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Serbia's Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34651	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34652	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to the proposal for a law on military education is further defined by Article 1. It's a bill of law. Education as a process for the adoption of knowledge, the acquisition of skills, the development of skills is an important segment of all social activities and an important segment of the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. It's a process that lasts a lifetime. It's a fundamental basis and an existential need of every man. Military education is of particular importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia. Military education includes education, training and military training for the needs of the Serbian Army. The draft law on military education is very important and necessary so that the adoption of this regulation governing the specificity of military education could complete the process of harmonisation of regulations and military school institutions could become an integral part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, the problems that arise in the application of applicable laws would also be addressed, legal certainty, certainty, issues related to status, organisation and work of military-school institutions would be addressed, thus making normative-legal full military education an integral part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34653	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Petkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34654	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, gentlemen of the generals and colonels, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have proposed an amendment to Article 1 where Article 3 is added. The reason for the amendment is next. If we remember through the history of the Serbian Army, Serbia's military education has always been at the highest possible level, both from the Military High School, the Military Academy, and students who were best in the class, and have had the opportunity to be chosen for education, for the National Security School and thus become generals. What I would particularly like to point out is that we are living in the field of digitisation, and I therefore believe that, although military education has largely accepted digitisation, I think it would be necessary to fully digitise education in order to simplify, speed up and improve military education. You'll let me say or repeat what I said a few minutes ago, that only the chosen have a chance to finish the National Security School. I may be one of the few who had a chance to meet and be a regular soldier in the post-war history era after the bombing. I've had a chance to meet a very large number of generals. What I can tell you with pleasure is that these are people for all praise. I even had a chance to be in the First Army Office whose command was Lieutenant General Miodrag Simic. Of all the generals I've had the opportunity to meet, I only have words of praise and deserve to serve my country with honor. What I would particularly like to stress is that we must certainly contribute and support both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, in an effort to digitise the entire system, and in particular to strengthen it in the field of education. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34655	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Mitrovica, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34656	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on military education - in Article 1. The proposal for a law is added to bet 3. The amendment further defines Article 1 of this Act. An important law on military schools and research institutions was adopted in 1994. Since there was a need to adopt the Law on Military Education, which will harmonise the rules on military education with the education system in the Republic of Serbia, this way removes the consequences of the release of the general deadline for the harmonisation of the law with the Constitution, which was provided for in Article 15 of the constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm going to talk about is certainly hiring the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army to provide professional assistance to the civilian population. On the territory of the Pcinj Management District in 2016, we had a joint medical engagement that represented the humanitarian assistance of mixed medical teams of the Serbian Army and the Ojah Guard to the civilian population. The co-ordination body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja was included in this activity as a support. The activity of the mirror was organised by medical examinations in villages away from health stations in cities. This activity covered the following places. In the municipality of Presevo village Reljan and Cerevajka, in the municipality of Bujanovac - Muhovac, Lučane, Klenica and Letovica and in the town of Vranj village of Vlasa and Vrtogož. The defence ministry and Serbia's Military for one such activity, as joint medical engagement has produced exceptional results. A large number of patients have been examined, and the activity has been of multiple benefits, both by local population and by detecting the problems faced by patients and doctors in these local communities. In the day of voting, I call upon the MPs to support the Law on Military Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34657	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34658	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with our officers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I, as always, have submitted amendments to undeveloped areas, areas in which investment should be made, and where our army has given a great emphasis in the past to help develop southeast Serbia when it has been most difficult. Otherwise, as far as military education is concerned, it's something very important to us, because we all know there's no property without knowledge, and that's why I'll always support all those laws that give progress and the development of our army, because we're witnesses of all the unwanted things that happened in the previous period. We know back in a few years, when the great snows were, when there was a big icefall, when there was a power problem, then our army, headed by the then minister, Mr. Gasic, came to us in southeast Serbia and worked together with us to train, so that it could work both "Electro Networks" and so that it could function southeast Serbia. I'm a witness to these events, because I saw then that our army has the ability and the strength to help our civilians. That's when we worked in the field with our soldiers. We visited our villages, where with people who were health workers, we measured the pressures and worked with our people, with old people on the ground, and thus made an even greater contribution to our army, that our army was even more appreciated and respected. Otherwise, we all know that our Serbia survived thanks to our three pillars, which is the village, it is the army and it is our Serbian church. These three pillars saved our country from Serbia, and that is why we all have great confidence in our army. The involvement of our army in the previous period has proved to be what needs to be done, what should be done and once again, distinguished Minister Vulin, I really support your work, because I am sure that by your engagement in the coming period you will give even more support to all those people who have shown by their knowledge and skill that we should work for our country Serbia, so our General Lazarevic has shown when it was most difficult and now that he will give his knowledge to some other people, academics, that they can learn to work and be people who will save our people and our country to Serbia. Once again, I call upon all people, all MPs here in the Assembly to support my amendment, to work on developing underdeveloped areas, and to make our army stronger and more powerful, because that is the only way we have to be respected by the whole world. Once again, I thank you for your great support from me and my United Peasant Party of Serbia, our village and our church.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34659	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34660	Thank you. The intensity of the amendment to Article 1 is to further underline the direct link between the education system, including, of course, military education and the issue in the overall development of a single society. Currently, the topic in the Republic of Serbia is the issue of forming strategic approaches to our education, higher education in the next decade. In the period from 2020 to 2030, some of the aspects of direct education will definitely be further supported by the state, therefore, through top-level programmes. These aspects certainly include, as we can see from official data, the question of the possibility of forming a co-operation centre between education and economy institutions. Why it's important for a country is quite clear. So the possibility to further stimulate growth, to further encourage development. It is also clear in a model that defines a state principle of creating adequate growth not on consumption, as was once the wrong case, but on investments and precisely exports. We're, the fact is, today we're able to figure out excellent results like the quarterly growth rate of 41.5%. It is known that when we talk about education, the system of military education forms extraordinary experts in those areas that directly concern military issues, but not only in these areas. Generally, exceptional experts in areas such as machinery, such as management systems, such as communications and others, are formed right through military education systems. These people today, for example. They participate in excellent results, such as, when we talk about exports, formed arms contracts worth $718 million in this year alone, so, just for the few months it's been to date, to recognize a good space, to make and expand that context, not only to arms and military equipment. It is the obligation of a responsible society, a serious state, as Serbia is today. Of course, everything contrary to what it was until 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34661	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Yevtić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34662	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, gentlemen, on the proposal for a law on military education submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am submitting an amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law in the sense of adding Article 3 which specifies the subject which is governed by this law in terms of the influence of military education on the even development of the Republic of Serbia. An analysis of the existing situation in the field of military education concludes that the existing legal solution, which governs the area, is not in line with the regulations governing the education system in the Republic of Serbia. The main purpose of the proposed legislative solution is precisely to synchronise and coordinate the organisation and work of military institutions with regulations governing education in the Republic of Serbia, then to contribute to legal security and certainty and to resolve issues that remain controversial and are related to the work, status and organisation of military institutions. We don't have to go too far back in history to draw the conclusion that military education and the system of military institutions themselves were deeply embedded in the minds of the people, as one of the most traditionally just system that gave everyone the same chance regardless of the category of social class from which the students encouraged, regardless of the nation and religion, which essentially allowed the foundation of this system to develop equally in all parts of the country. Indeed, if we really look at all the facts that define the past time, we must honestly say that the military education system may be the only system that has allowed the country to develop evenly. It's a system that's made it possible for everyone to have the same chances and education and progress. Traditionally, in our people it takes a high place in terms of justice, discipline, work and honesty. It can be said that the system of military education has always been compatible with the real life of the people, that it has experienced and experienced all the pores of social life and managed to get the best out of this situation and build on the progress of the entire country in all areas of social life. The balanced development of the whole country is certainly the ideal to whom we seek, regardless of the area of social life that we are discussing. In view of everything that has been said and related to the importance of military education for the construction of a system that will enable it, I think the proposed amendment is a kind of contribution to this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34663	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34664	Thank you, President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the provision of Article 1 of the proposed Law on Military Education has established the subject of a law governing the objectives of military education, taking into account the specificities and nature of military education in relation to the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, education, training and professional training for the needs and defence of the military, as well as many other issues with fundamental aim to integrate the responsibility, knowledge, military honor and creativity of a modern soldier firmly based on our history and military tradition. The proposed amendment adds item 3, which further defines the subject matter of the law and refers to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the rights of displaced persons. Dear colleagues, displaced persons are the most vulnerable category of the population in the Republic of Serbia, who today, after nearly two decades of the end of the conflict, do not enjoy guaranteed rights provided for by international documents, primarily the Convention on Human Rights, which is primarily the right of displaced persons to return to their homes and return their property seized during the period of resettlement or to be compensated for property that cannot be returned to them. Starting with the current finding of opportunities in KIM, which is viewed in poor security conditions, not functioning by judicial and other business institutions, a complicated legal system, displaced persons are finding it difficult to realise their basic human rights on their own. In this context, the KIM Office in co-operation with the EU and other international organisations in continuity continues to provide free legal assistance through project activities, promotions and protection of property rights of internally displaced persons, refugees and returnees under the Readmission Agreement. The implementation of the project provides for the achievement of the following results: free legal assistance provided to internally displaced persons, refugees and returnees in a way that ensures the full achievement of their human rights; improved monitoring, reporting on the state of human rights and legislative changes and other topics affecting refugees and internally displaced persons; increased availability of information necessary for the exercise of the rights of refugees, displaced persons and returnees. The planned results are achieved through the activities of providing legal assistance to displaced persons for court entry and other relevant institutions in KIM, and the refugee of the production of legal documents, submissions, writing reports on issues concerning the exercise of rights, providing assistance in the collection of documents. Since the largest number of outstanding legal cases relate to property, lawyers engaged in the project are most concerned with cases of return of property and compensation, other property issues, such as illegal possession of property, premature transactions and alienation of property, illegal expropriation, as well as the issue of privatisation. It should be noted that 40,000 claims have been filed for the return of property and more than 20,000 claims for damages for damaged and destroyed property in front of KIM courts, which unfortunately are not being prosecuted. In addition to property rights, the project is specifically focused on economic and social rights, as well as on the ban on discrimination against displaced persons. One of the basic means of legal protection used by these legal experts is direct representation of the courts and institutions of the KIM. In addition to direct work with clients, the project also works to identify institutional and legislative shortcomings and problematic practices that have a negative impact on the exercise of the rights of displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34665	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Tarbuk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34666	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I would like to propose an amendment in Article 1. The draft law on military education and to add attitude 3, which reads: "military education provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the efficiency of local self-government." The proposed amendment sets out the unity of policymaking for the development of military education and education for defence purposes, which are created partly through the authorities of local self-government, regional centres in the jurisdiction of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. It creates educated, trained, trained when capable of defence and security affairs, both at the level of local self-government and throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think that adequately educated and trained faces can give a lot to their local self-government. The state authorities addressed directly by citizens, members of the Serbian Army, as a body in which Serbian citizens have great trust, superior to education, the application of local self-government authorities to a number of unpredictable, extraordinary circumstances in which they can be exposed. Local self-government must be professional, efficient, and this can only be achieved by the same education. I have to remember when I speak of the army and when I see uniforms in our parliament, my military service. That was 1990/91. A year. I remember the day I took off my uniform, the fourth of September, that's when I first saw the difference between the guy who went into the army and the man who got out of it. The army is one serious life teacher and I regret the times when the military deadline was required. Anyway, I want my colleague's voting day to support this law and, of course, if they have the strength and the time, my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34667	The word has been given by MP Gorica Gajic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34668	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would refer to my colleague Tarbuk's amendment, since there's been some kind of apostrophe here with local self-government. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, sirs of honor, given the amendments proposed here, I think there's little of you here. Here, given the beauty of the actions here through the amendments, from agriculture, through digitisation, to infrastructure, we should sit the entire government, so that we don't all discuss these proposed amendments by the ruling party and that we all make sure that we vote for these amendments the next day and that, of course, all of this is incorporated into the draft legislation on education in the military. You gentlemen know very well how much it costs to train an officer, and you know how much the state costs to perfect it, as you know, and you and we, how many young officers are after school and military academy, and we have the opportunity to promote them here in front of the National Assembly every fall, how many young officers are leaving the Army of Serbia. I will not be here as some MPs who have halved with you how many people or young officers have left the Serbian Army, you know it best. But, I know, let's just say, in my Svilinac, three young officers left Serbia's army a year ago. One of them is even invited to work at the General Staff, but given his salary of 60 or 70,000 dinars, it is humiliating that he can support his family with that money and pay the apartment, because he has no settled housing issue. We talked a lot about it here when it comes to the status and problem of our officer's staff at all. Well, I suppose that's why we've been abandoned by young and educated officers, one of the laws in this military set predicts that we can, in some formational place that provides for an officer's staff, fill in the civilians who are employed in the Serbian Army. It was given to fill empty spaces, but it certainly cannot be a good solution for Serbia's Army. Do not repeat cases such as the Military Institute, which instead of having a colonel in charge, has a recent head of the institution's hall. That's not good for the Serbian Army. As for co-operation, that is, the relationship between this law on education in the military and local self-government, cities and municipalities, perhaps we should focus on unresolved issues of abandoned barracks and homes of the Serbian Army. In many cities, as well as in my Svilianc, these barracks and homes of the Serbian Army are failing. No one's paying attention, that property stands. If we could, I was trying to do my time as a local official, to solve some property relations with the Army of Serbia, because their own time municipalities were giving up land on which barracks were raised. At this point, neither local self-government nor the Serbian Army is of any use to these institutions nor to these facilities. This should be the subject of relations between the Serbian Army and local self-government. In the end, gentlemen officers, military education -- yes, officer cadre -- yes, but I ask you, do you think that a young male generation in our Serbia should have, if not military education, some military training? As a mother son, and I believe many MPs here, I can't live with the fact that our male children don't know how to disassemble or fold a simple rifle. And we, former high school students from 20 and 30 years ago, had military training, we had a shooting, so we girls knew how to handle guns. Today, boys who are not professional soldiers, honor of the professional army, remain militaryly untrained. I find that inadmissible. Let's find a way to get these young boys, even if they're the most basic military training, so that, for God's sake, they'll benefit their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34669	Right on line, Minister, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34670	Thank you. Civilians will be able to replace soldiers as well as soldiers will be able to replace civilians on specific and specific duties, when you simply cannot find, for example, informers, lawyers, which is much more common. You just can't find a lawyer with a legal exam and be a colonel. Very often you can't find it. So, in these specific things will come civilians. But we also opened a space for officers to be able to take civilian places where we think it's good and it's useful. I think that's a good thing. You don't need to tie your hands, you need to give the military the chance to work. As far as military training is concerned, the important issue you have raised, or something we can call military training, the civil defense sector has been abolished. So, the sector that was dealing with this has been abolished. You've introduced a professional army, and you've abolished what's being prepared for your reserve. You did it on purpose. We have now returned it and in collaboration with the Ministry of Education and it cannot be regulated by this law. In collaboration with the Ministry of Education, we are just working on the moderations of how to through education, how to get through the entire system certain knowledge and skills that we need, as well as military training, but also, as well as the functioning of civil protection, in the case of elemental disasters, all the things that are useful to us in everyday life, and of course we need to find a certain modus, taking care of the law, the rules, what minors, what can age, etc. In any case, that's what this is about, and it's exactly with the Ministry of Education, and we've returned, I say, this sector, primarily with that goal, to ensure that as many of our citizens as possible, in accordance with their capabilities, are familiar with ways to help defend the country. We have a strategy that's been called, always and never changed, called Total Defense. That means we all participate in the way we can, but we're not preparing anyone for total defense. Now, that's gonna break and change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34671	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34672	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll try not to be too hard on a DSS colleague who tried to be funny at the expense of the SNS amendment, but that didn't exactly work out for her. You know, fellow Members, there is something that is much more serious and that has caused much greater damage to Serbia's military and the Ministry of Defence than your impression that the entire government should be present to discuss the SNS amendment. During your rule, just a reminder, the best Serbian officers were delivered to The Hague tribunal, Pavkovic, Lazarevic, who defended Serbia at KIM. Colonel Veselin Sljivancanin was delivered, you know how. You've got footage on the tab of you arresting a man. You delivered General of Republika Srpska's Zdravko Tolimir, a sick man by arresting him here in Belgrade, by boating him across the Sava to Bosnia and then saying he was arrested by members of the Republika Srpska MUP. Then you show up at the National Assembly in 2018 and dive crocodile tears over the Army of Serbia, over KIM and ask Minister Vulin – and who will train our male children to assemble and break up guns? If you hadn't done what you did together with DS, believe me, it would have been like, a lot more officers who would have known, as you say, our male children to train not only how they fold together and disassemble automatic rifles, but how they love and how they defend their country. You worked during your government all the opposite, not to mention that shameful trade with General Lazarevic. You offered him if I wasn't wrong about the Octavia Shkod and he volunteered to go to The Hague tribunal so that you wouldn't arrest him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34673	Thank you. Right on line, MP Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34674	Thank you, Chairman. I am very sorry that some colleagues are forgetting or forgetting, that you do not mind my accent because here, too, the efforts of the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica to resist the pressures of Western powers and not to hand over our dim generals to whom we of the DSS are proud, but you also know now how much pressure you suffer to finally join the EU. In the moments when the DSS tried to go that way and when it realized what the price of Serbia's entry into the EU, from giving Kosovo and Metohija, from the arrest of all the generals, which we worked on, to at least arrest or deliver, call it whatever you want, by law, and not to hunt them as some in the markets, and you know very well the position of Vojislav Kostunica and DSS when it comes to The Hague tribunal and the status of The Hague tribunal and all of our civilian and military leadership that ended in The Hague. She paid that price for not being blackmailed by the DSS by returning the mandate to the people because she no longer wanted to give in and make concessions to the White World community. That's how she ended up in opposition. It would be honorable for all of us to suffer great pressures from the West, which ask us to give up the work of the territory, which here our direct politicians and military and civilian leaders condemn as war criminals, return to our mandate and tell us – we will not go to the EU under such conditions. There's something else at the end. In his day, Ivo Andric spoke, and the DSS is often attacked here: “What have I done to someone who won’t say a good day to me and passes by me? I must have done him some good work. “ Remember, gentlemen of the SNS, the DSS supported you in the second round of presidential elections and thanks to our votes you came to power. (President: You are finishing up, colleague Gajic. ) You know what kind of agreement is then signed when it comes to solving problems with Kosovo and Metohija. You didn't stick to that agreement. Unfortunately, you're... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34675	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34676	Thank you, Chairman. Like my colleague Martinovic, without wanting to get in touch with my colleague, I must really say that he is a injured member of 107th and has injured the dignity of this assembly. To listen here about how someone resisted the delivery of our people, and this someone is directly responsible for being released from the Nis District Court in April 2001 by the Mazrek brothers, sentenced to 20 years in prison, the participants of the Orahovac attack when 43 civilians were abducted, when apparently the gentleman whom his colleague mentioned was resisting by fleeing to Belanovic to guard cats, pretending to be uninformed when they delivered to the UN tribunal of Slobodan Milosevic. If it was resistance and if they were so defending Serbia, it is better that they never gave any resistance. Whom they defended and whom they saved from the UN tribunal, even hell will not fall upon him afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34677	Take it easy, colleague Gajic. First of all, my colleague Complenski was speaking for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and now he has the right to the replica of his colleague Martinovic, so if he gives you the right to the replica, I will give you. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34678	Don't take this personally, colleague. I know you didn't have any part in it, you may have been intimate and against it all, but I'm saying this because of the citizens of Serbia. This is what I'm saying not to forget who systematically ruined Serbia's Army to the point that it almost had no fighting power. One of the weaknesses in the fighting power of the Serbian Army, one way to kill patriotic morality among Serbian citizens was what your party was doing at the time your former president was president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. You say you resisted the arrest of the general. Here, I'll only tell you one case. On June 13, 2003, if I'm not mistaken, don't mind me if I misjudged the date, June 13, 2003, when Colonel Sljivancanin was arrested in a shameful way, so no wild beasts are hunted in Africa, the only ones who resisted in front of his building where he lived were Alexander Vukic and Alexander Vulin. I didn't hear it was anyone from the DSS, from the government of Serbia or from the then federal government. I did not talk here about the road to the EU, I was talking about people not forgetting who the best sons and bravest sons of the Serb people delivered to The Hague tribunal. When you put up such a strong resistance, it's impossible that you couldn't even protect someone. So all they asked you to do is give it to them. Not to mention the case of police generals you took to The Hague in pajamas and hospital slippers. You cannot say it now. We have returned the term to the people, and you are not guilty of anything. All of you, all of that group... (President: Bring the end, Mr. Martinovic. )......................................................................................................... I end up, since 19 parties, associations, organizations, which you already were, who came to power on 5 October 2000, it's all your fault for the situation in which the Serbian Army was found in 2012, and all of you are to blame for the shameful arrest of the bravest Serbian officers both the military and the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34679	Thank you. Right on line, colleague Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34680	Thank you, Chairman. On one occasion, I also spoke to you in the middle of the debate with you about the difficulties that all the governments of the Republic of Serbia have been back 20 years and may have had more, let me include the time of Slobodan Milosevic. We haven't been here since yesterday, and we all know what kind of pressures we've suffered on a variety of grounds. After 2000, i.e. in 2004, when the DSS took over, let's say, the helm of power, when Vojislav Kostunica became prime minister of this country, only he knows what was waiting for us and we really need to remind you – do not blame all the blame for the Serbia Army's disintegration to put on the DSS. And we had coalition partners with whom we had to look for some least common multiple. The moment Serbia's state interests were threatened, Serbia's territorial integrity, we, once again underline, as foreign and Kostunica as the responsible leader returned the mandate to the people because we no longer had anyone to implement the policy the DSS itself had in its programme. Don't forget, there were others here who reminded you, who was to blame for all these 90s wars and wars, who then was toiling and who was then spreading Serbia's borders, that I wasn't counting now, until you were also in that party. So please, there are great trials ahead of you. This year will be a year apart around KIM status. You know the pressures you're putting on. Don't let three years or four years from now or next year the same person accuses you of betraying, selling or whatever KIM and trying to say now that it's for the benefit of all of us who are going to live much better if we agree on KIM status, in translation, if we sign a binding agreement with Pristina. Take care. Times and trials are difficult, as they were in 2004 and 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34681	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34682	I'm advertising a violation of article 107. Namely, this house should be respected and respected by each member of Parliament and MP group. A colleague earlier, with a certain dose of irony, said someone had proposed Serbia's borders to, I don't know, not speak. Say it freely, where the Serbian people are, there are the borders of Serbia. We Serbian radicals say always and we are not ashamed that it is a great Serbia, and we will see what most will decide when it comes to the realization of that programme, but I must come to the realization, because we do not forget that Republika Srpska is occupied. You, the chairman, should however, prevent this kind of exposure which is, not only ironic, but underestimating when it comes to the programme, in this case, the SRS. We have no intention of getting in the opposite polemics, of saying who was the most politician in 2000, who was led as a bear in God's America, and of representing him as a great Democrats. That was the moment something the people wanted, when they saw that the bear of the divine could bring no good, the people changed. But you cannot put an end to the idea, the ideology of Serbian nationalism, or the borders of the Serbian state where they were historically established.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34683	Comrade Mircic, I don't think I've broken Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I can tell you that I wouldn't be as good as you if I were defending some political groups, so I can tell you that you're making a pretty good salary and I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34684	I don't know what the chairman is up to.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34685	Yes or no? I have to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34686	Can I make a statement?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34687	Yes or no, just say the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34688	If your folks in the house were to announce whether Arsic was a homosexual and asked to answer yes or no, what would that look like?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34689	I told you that joke years ago, years ago. Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34690	You don't have to get so hot, Mrs. Gajic. Vojislav Kostunica gave up the EU, or road to the EU, in a statement to Pink on 4 April 2008. That was after all these arrests I was telling you about. Don't replace the thesis. No one from the SNS, no one from the Serbian government will betray KIM or sign anything contrary to the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens. I'm just telling you, Serbian generals and Serbian officers in The Hague did not deliver Alexander Vukic, but your party and Vojislav Kostunica. You remind me now how hard it is for us too. It's hard, but let me give you one case. There were pressures on Alexander Vukic to arrest Vojislav Seselj and return to The Hague. Were they? What did Alexander Vukitch say publicly on television, on public service? It's not the Serbian government Fedeks, so you can send us a package, and we'll give you that package back. When did Vojislav Kostunica say that? He never said. Live Serbian meat packages were leaving here in officer uniforms, hospital pajamas in The Hague. That's where they were tried for crimes they didn't commit. There, in force of God, they are placed in some joint criminal enterprise "Joint Criminal Enterprise", which is something that was invented in The Hague tribunal to prove the Serbian fault for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, because in every indictment, I don't know if you've had the opportunity to read these Hague indictments, since you delivered people to The Hague would have been the turn to read some of these Hague indictments. In each Hague indictment, writes – Milan Martic, Slobodan Milosevic, Milan Babić, Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic, etc., and other known and unknown persons. These people were never all together in one place to agree on a plan to create an ethnically pure Serbian state. You delivered such men to The Hague. (President: I thank my colleague Martinovic. I'm finishing up, Mr. Arsic. We have shown how to resist pressures from abroad, when it comes to the interests of the Serbian state and its citizens. You weren't able to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34691	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34692	I thank the chairman. You know how, when someone is glorifying his leader or former leader without holding on to some elementary, moral corpus, then he really deserves a proper reaction. Let's remind everyone here and that, not so far past, we can perpetuate as she deserves. Has Vojislav Kostunica won the elections and the first parliamentary elections since the famous five-octobaric changes? Is there anyone who has enough conscience to say that Vojislav Kostunica won in the first election round? Did he need a few percent then and should the second election round be held? Did Slobodan Milosevic, who was helped by Vojislav Kostunica to be delivered to The Hague, resisting the fact that Slobodan Milosevic did not go to The Hague, then should the second electoral round have been held, and then check again the election will of citizens who are unquestionably and always respected by the SPS? When we do not have this elemental moral Corps, we say – Vojislav Kostunica has resisted. To who or to what? Is it possible to resist what means the devastation of the economy? Is there resistance to what involves the destruction of the companies that went bankrupt? Is there resistance to what is meant by hundreds of thousands of street employees? Obviously not. Therefore, a simple reaction to such attitudes and thesis must follow, for if we do not have morals, then we will point out facts that do not correspond to the truth. History will show that the only statesman, the only president of the state to be delivered to an international court, Slobodan Milosevic. That after that another state official was delivered almost in the same way, which is Nikola Sainovic. Therefore, the truth is one, the truth must always be looked into the eyes and the truth cannot be distorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34693	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34694	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising an article. Article 107 108th and a violation of dignity and a turn for the old president of the National Assembly. Speaking today and opening this controversy, I also looked back on the difficult conditions, among other things, and the time of Slobodan Milosevic. In that sense, I thought most positively of all the pressures that he suffered among other things and Slobodan Milosevic, when it came to Serbia and all those events, that I would not return from the 1990s to 2000s. But if we, the MPs here, allow ourselves to call our former presidents of the state, the Prime Ministers, the ministers, or put them in the context of certain events, or tie them to some domestic animals, I think we are hurting the great dignity of the National Assembly. Don't forget, I remind you of the SNS that we, I say, want all the best to do, to bring Serbia progress. Remember a little speech from 10, 15 years ago, when it comes to your current friends, now they're partners from the West, who blackmail you, and you know what kind of pressures you're suffering about all these events, again I'm saying, around KIM. Do not let our partners through the agenda that we have then tried in terms of EU accession respect because they all swore, as you swear, that you have signed the Brussels Agreement because you have found what the DS government has already promised and already done in the process of Eurointegration. Don't forget that we had some obligation on that agenda, too. At the moment we realized that Serbia would be destroyed both by the economy and military and political and educationally, we cut off euro integration and now we advocate that Serbia be both a military and political neutral state. (President: You are finishing up, colleague Gajic. ) That's why I want you on the road to which you are now taking care of Serbia and the same Western diplomats who are now coming and communicating with you and your authority to see if your friends and friends are Serbia, because they have been looking for and insisting and blackmailing that all our generals, both police and military, at least we've brought the law to deliver them to The Hague, unfortunately both Serbia and the Serbian people, here, I'm saying it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34695	Thank you, colleague. You've applied to Articles 107 and 108. I need to answer something for you. I agree that fellow MPs know some time in their discussions that they are exaggerating, saying a lot of things about both of them, it can be embarrassing, but that's why no life is ruined, no family is ruined. I can't tell what an MP is going to say at some point, and in this discussion and the controversy that you had with your colleague Martinovic, I didn't notice. I wish I could participate in this discussion. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34696	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 103, relating to Articles 106, 107, 108. As someone who participated on October 5th, in part, I must say that Vojislav Kostunica received between 48.5 and 49.3% of the vote. He won by rejecting all votes from Kosovo and Metohija, because the polling stations were closed in three hours, and the proposition said they had to be opened by 19 or 20 hours. Thanks to the rejection of all votes from Kosovo and Metohija, remember, all votes from Kosovo and Metohija, Vojislav Kostunica has become president on October 5th, so after recognising even Milosevic himself that Vojislav Kostunica has won the most votes. It would be realistic to repeat those elections within a week at the polling stations that had been closed before. Such were the proposition and it was claimed by the president of the Federal Election Commission, Aregina, as I recall. There were people among us who wanted to go in the second round. What will surprise you, Zoran Djindjic, is, which I heard with my ears, asked us to beat him in the second round. But Vojislav Kostunica was against it. He rejected all votes by Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to become president of the Republic of Serbia. So don't let them call on false patriotism, morale, they became moral in 2008 when they released all the Shipatarian terrorists 2,108, the Mazrek brothers, Djakovica and Dreničko groups, when they delivered everything that could be extradited and when they initialled the SAA and led it almost to the end. When there was nothing left to extradite, they, as a fairy tale, returned their mandate to the people and that is the cruel truth you should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34697	Since I see where this is going, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm now setting a three-minute break. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. I couldn’t break the Rules of Procedure except to read the name and last name. Let's just wait till my colleague's finished, and at least have some groundwork. So the application of Article 112 means that everything that happened in the previous part of the session is analized. I know what you'd like to talk about, we all know... You don't know. Well, you'll tell me another time. Now I ask you to continue the session. The word has a National MP, Slavisa Bulatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34699	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, gentlemen of staff, representatives of the BIA, respected fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on military education in the sense that Article 1 after Article 2 of Article 2 adds to Article 3 which reads - military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the rule of law. The fact is that Serbia is as rare as a country in the environment can praise the long and rich tradition of military education. With the education of its own officer staff, the need that has been recognised in the first decades of the 19th century has resulted in today’s military education system as well. The development of military education was closely linked to the development of the Serbian Army, which was the basis and protection of the national idea of creating a modern Serbian state in the 19th century. Starting with that period of military school in Serbia, they have brought down an entire play of intellectuals and experts in military areas, experienced military strategies, unwavering in their ministry and their homeland. Many among them were successful scientists, theorists, academics, and senior civil servants. This bill harmonizes and harmonizes military and civil education in the country, and also promotes an institutional framework that will circle the process of education and scientific action in the area of defence and security of the Republic of Serbia as a developed and modern state. If the military and the officer's court in the past were bearers of national ideas and promoters of Serbian statehood, then today the Serbian Army is most invited to preserve this statehood and its identity in line with the tasks and missions it was designed for. The definition of the Republic of Serbia and its military to develop partnership relations with European and world-wide international security structures is manifested among other things by co-operation in the field of military education. Therefore, an effort to create quality professional personnel and meaningful technical and material support is one of the military's priority tasks as well as to invest in the future of the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34700	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34701	I thank the chairman. In case I exceed the time of the parliamentary group, I will use the time of the authorised representative, and I would just like to point out for the citizens' sake, at least a certain number following the meetings and our discussions and the parliamentary dialogue that we are conducting in this House, and for what? Because we are often condemned, at least in the coalition to submit pointless amendments to that part of the law in order to allegedly waste time. In order to effectively deny this is exactly an opportunity, several of the last amendments by a fellow SNS. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, together with your associates, to pay attention to something that will undoubtedly be supported by the SPS, while at the same time making a certain contribution with extremely well-intentioned proposals regarding the improvement of these laws that we are discussing today, even when they are adopted. What's this about? SNS colleagues have proposed to include local self-government units in the education system, which is not at all controversial and is extremely correct and in practical terms a very quality proposal. We in the SPS parliamentary group would do little to supplement and affirm this proposal even more, and that is to include in the education system those capacities and resources that the state has, that is, where the Army normally manages, segments of dedicated production, weapons production, ammunition production, etc. In this particular piece of work, in these technological processes that require a specific system of expertise and a specific profession, it is necessary to include all those that will help the military education system to obtain as high-quality personnel as possible in these segments. Indeed, in that sense, I would mention what exists in Uzic, which represents the whole of Serbia. It is a weapons and ammunition factory "First Partizan" and a newly opened factory in Požega or Ševarica. Why am I saying this? Because of the resources that have extremely high quality equipment and highly sophisticated technological processes, production processes that are respectable and where, as the general known fact is that ammunition is exported and where production is 90% oriented towards exports. You ministers and how well you know that just in "The First Partizan" thanks to the extraordinary management, there is an even higher level of production in the export sense of saying that many markets such as American and German were won and where our products are highly priced. If this is a fact that cannot be doubted, and indeed cannot, then it is necessary to consider that these capacities, and the First Partizan is only one example, there are many in Triestenik and Valjevo, to be included in the education system. You mentioned a way of involving the civil sector by taking certain positions when it comes to the military or otherwise. There is another way to think about it, and it is a matrix or form of dual education, where we have recently passed a law relating to dual education, to try through certain transformations to apply in the military education system, regardless of whether it is medium military education or high military education. What I mentioned, I mentioned for the simple reason that Serbia and how it has the potential, and how it has the resources where technology processes can appear as a basis for even better, for even better quality military education where technical sciences are concerned. When I was talking about "The First Partizan" I didn't want to affirm it in terms of advertising for "The First Partizan" because the commercial "The First Partizan" is not necessary because it's a great business. There is no reason for advertising to be given to any military factory in terms of the capacity and quality that these factories carry, but it really needs to be included where it can include what involves improving the quality of the staff, improving the quality of the profession, and this is the way of applying military education in synergy with technology and technological processes in the purpose of production one of the possibilities, one way to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34702	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34703	Mrs. Gojkovic, you've arrived at the right time, otherwise I've appeared several times on the basis of Article 32, because my colleague Arsic has not seen at all, or pretended not to see me coming by the Rules of Procedure for ten minutes, and I would say he would like to be involved in the discussion before, but he can't because he was alone. I wanted to draw his attention to him sitting here all day, the Vice President, the Witch of Radet, and that I could freely replace him and do this job much better than he did, and he could have been involved in the debate of his colleagues who were here reviving a political dead man. We did not want to involve ourselves in this, but given that the successors of this political dead man have been called, I must say that the main generator of his evil in Serbia has just been Vojislav Kostunica, beginning with the fact that in his name he came to the government of DOS and Zoran Djindjic, to the fact that he freed Fljor Brovin and hundreds of Shipar, to the fact that he handed it over to the UN tribunal most, that at the end of the day, the representative, DS Milos Aligrudic, refused to give the quorum on the Administrative Committee, and that it did not happen, when the majority on this Administrative Committee decided that the party who did not go to the elections at that time could not take the mandates of the SRS. So all that went wrong in Serbia is the Vojislav Kostunica generator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34704	Thank you. Do you think that Vice President Arsic violated Article 32? You have called on Article 32 to assist the President of the National Assembly. (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) But he was helping me. He wouldn't let me chair. All right. It's not a problem. Whenever you have time, you can come here and help me. Thank you for the amendment, the First Amendment, was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Mike. Does anyone want a word? He's not here. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want another word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34705	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have tabled an amendment that I have proposed to be in Article 1. The proposal for a law on military education adds Article 3, which reads: "The military education provides for Serbia's overall development, with a special reference to improving the work of local self-government." Military education is one of the oldest pillars in education in our country, which achieves a wide-ranging general education, where high-science and expertise are adopted, the development of leadership skills and high-moral buildings. The aim of the adoption of this law is to regulate the specificity of military education in relation to the education system of the Republic of Serbia, but we clearly say it is becoming an integral part of the system. In 2012, Serbia has risen. It has gone and entered the dynamic process of digitising, modernising intensive education and work and the overall better life of citizens, a significantly higher standard of living with the aim of continuing and becoming a developed and regulated country. The improvement of the work of local self-government can be achieved through the process of Serbia's overall development, primarily with the presence of a strong army as a guaranteed peace and stability. Every time our army was strong, so was Serbia. Until 2012, the previous regime's priority was to weaken our army. The task was fully devoted knowing that it was the fastest way for Serbia to break down and throw itself on its knees. By the way, everyone in the system of the regime, from the commander-in-chief and the ministers, to the president of the municipalities, did not forget to charge them personally and make them rich. That same year, the people told them a lot, stopped them from realising their intentions, entrusted the state to Alexander Vukic and the SNS. The army is again doubtless the best part of society, the best system, capable of providing us with peace, so much need for all of us, our children, and the generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34706	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34707	Dear Presidents, ministers with co-workers, colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to point out the essential importance military education has to raise the overall capacity of defence, and this was best seen in 1999 during the criminal NATO aggression. Let me remind you, in 1998, almost one generation of supporters was deployed to Kosovo and Metohija. They were the ones with their old colleagues who were the bearers of a successful homeland defense. In what way? By gaining knowledge in theory, which they have applied in practice, they have managed to resist a sophisticated aggressive attack by impacting distances, impactes from airspace. Had it not been for extraordinary military training during the military education of those elders, we would have had thousands and thousands dead. We would have a classic military defeat in Kosovo and Metohija. I am absolutely in favor of our army studying and assessing whether and what wars we have won, and which wars we have lost, to learn how to fight, how to raise the morale of soldiers. When you have an experienced elder, a morally strong, heroic, heroic elder, he is in the most difficult situations, as he was, and I watched it with my own eyes in the area of Koshar, when he threatens to fall down the line, to break up among the military, raises the morale of those armies and prevents and escape, and the rest, and stick to that line. Therefore, the importance of military education is extremely important, but the way of war has changed. Now we have highly sophisticated modern security challenges, technologically very advanced, regardless of whether it's classical aggression, whether it's so-called. Cyber wars, hybrid wars or what asymmetric security challenges are. That is why I think that this system of military education, proposed by this law, will be trained to educate elders who will be able to cope with these most modern and secure challenges and modern ways of waging war. Now, hundreds and thousands of miles from the battlefield are headquarters that manage the real situation in real time on those battlefields. That's why a high-level vocational education is needed, combined with the experience of those who have defended their lives and their military ability to the country. What's most valuable in all the armed forces is people with combat experience. Never forget them. Use their experience in all forms that are foreseen by this law when it comes to military education. I believe that this system of military education, set up like this, will succeed in recruiting the best for military education, in succeeding in recruiting the best lecturers and in creating an elder who will be able to best apply acquired knowledge during schooling in conditions when we have to resist or prevent ourselves against modern security challenges. Finally, Madam President, I absolutely support the formation of a commission to determine the consequences of NATO bombing and make myself available to you at full capacity. I'm one of the witnesses who recorded as a journalist of RTS's first evidence of the use of poor uranium, of the use of tape bombs. It's inconclusive evidence. Unfortunately, many of my war mates have died precisely because of that poor uranium. So I will fully support the work of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34708	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP George Komslenski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34709	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Generals, I have submitted to Article 1 an amendment trying to make the subject and principles of this law defining the system of military education specific to its specificities in relation to civil education, but also a law that makes harmonisation to the extent possible and compatible with the regular system of education. I'm still a little bit of an important item, and that's a question of social equality. Although this is one of the laws in which social equality is expressed in the highest possible degree, it seems to me that by adding attitude 3 this could in some ways be further accelerated and improved. Namely, in Chapter V which speaks of students, cadets, students and students, about admission, about enrolment and reference to military-school institutions, in Articles 40, 50, 52 is the best possible and defined social equality. Why? It is clear from Article 50 that students in high school are provided by the Ministry of Defence with textbooks, school supplies, accommodation, nutrition, clothing, clothing, health care, transport costs and certain monthly incomes. This absolutely brings to equality all those who want to learn in these schools, because they all have the same opportunity, regardless of their material status and material status and this social equality component is well defined, but I think by adopting this amendment, which adds attitude 3. this would really be raised by at least one more degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34710	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34711	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have proposed in Article 1. The bill to add Article 3 reads: "War education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. “ Given the great importance of the proposal for a law on military education and the importance of the principles of efficiency of judicial institutions, it is necessary to explicitly and unequivocally highlight and affirm the principle of efficiency of judicial institutions. The efficiency of the judiciary is one of the basic principles on which the entire justice system of the Republic of Serbia is based. The basic elements are guaranteed by the Constitution, and every branch of law foresees this principle as a crown. By reducing backlogs in solving cases and equating court practice, they have a significant impact on the efficiency of the judiciary. On the other hand, the EU accession process itself, the implementation and adoption of legal flows of the EU, implies the implementation of comprehensive reforms that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing with great success. The main objective, set in the National Strategy for Justice Reform, is to establish the rule of law and legal certainty and restore citizens' confidence in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34712	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34713	Thank you, President. Quality selection of personnel is the basis for creating an effective and modern army and for the Serbian Army to achieve all tasks set before it is about training, motivation and morality, but also about the system of evaluation and evaluation of professional members of the army. This amendment that I have submitted should contribute to the constant responsibility of human resources management and future staff planning. When it comes to military education and general human resources, I will present several positive examples from the Serbian Army. A positive example of military education is the introduction of a major exam to obtain the rank of majors, restoring the idea of progress in line with acquired competences after 22 years. When it comes to our personnel resources in the Army of Serbia, perhaps the best example, in my opinion, is our members of the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions that are constantly getting the best grades, not from us, but from international experts for their military engagement. This is hard to deserve, but it shows that we are a stable and desirable partner and that we are also taking care of Serbia's personnel resources and that we remain an active factor in international peace and security. Many yesterday and today talk about various aspects of the Serbian Army. It's not about interoperability. It is very important to me, because I believe that technology is progressing at a lightning speed and it is very important that members of the Serbian Army at all times show what they know, but that they have the opportunity to measure their abilities with members of other armies in other countries. That is why human resources are a key element of the Serbian Army's sustainable system. For you, Minister Vulin, I have one question. Yesterday and today, I got word from the parents of children who went to high school in the military. They gave me this information that the captain of this school, Lieutenant Colonel Stevan Mussky, has sent a request to the General Staff that the children of that school, as well as the Military High School, have the right to be given the right to take an entrance exam for the Military Academy. I think this proposal for a law on military education is the best example for this issue to be resolved systematically. They also told me that they had the right to study extracurricularly, but that it was not enough for them. They're about 70, and on behalf of them, I asked you this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34714	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34715	Thank you. Honored presidents, respected ministers with associates, gentlemen of the Serbian Army, military education has a long tradition and is certainly one of the best educational institutions to train staff for officership and officer occupation. This law is both tactical and operational, and strategically... It is very important in all three of these aspects for the officers of the Serbian Army and for those who are educated in accordance with this law. A military invitation is honorable and highly moral, and the honor of the Serb soldier and their high morals was appreciated by all, even many of our enemies, for whom Serbian soldiers fought during the wars, especially in World War I from 1912 to 1918. Also, in relation to Article 1(2), I would like to commend the bill on the full equality of men and women in including all systems of military education, starting with secondary military education, and to acquire the highest military skills in the field of management and command. As far as I know, we have one female colonel, three, but I hope that in the near future, in line with the legal basis, and that means, in accordance with their age of employment, we will also have the first female "general". Besides, I want to commend one extremely humanistic and truly above all human approach to the Law of Military Education. Why do I think there are legal provisions that are legally regulated and that have a deep humanist and deep human approach? This, first of all, applies when it comes to cadets entering high school with the same number of points, the advantage is given to a cadet that comes from a family of fallen soldiers, whose parent was wounded or died during the war. Also, I would like to commend the humanist approach of this law when it comes to cadets that end military academy, and when a competent military commission determines their inability to work, they have the opportunity to engage without competition at the Ministry of Defence and to take advantage of their knowledge acquired at the Military Academy. Until 2012, civil protection was systematically and plannedly destroyed, with one single goal of making the Republic of Serbia helpless. Of course, the regimes until 2012 have done quite well. For the first time now, a civil defence sector is being introduced into the Ministry of Defence, which and how it should prepare, educates the civilian population, but also the reserve composition for many situations, including the situation of elemental disasters. The policy of the president of the Republic of Serbia and the commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army is a policy of peace and stability. An effective, strong and educated army is a guarantee of that peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34716	Just one intervention, Your Honor. The word "general" does not exist in our language. So, I'd pray we don't exaggerate in turning Serbian into some kind of new talk. So "general" doesn't exist. It's a pessimistic term that used to be used as the wife of a general. So please let's skip something like that. I fight for Serbian as long as I can. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34717	Thank you. Not to enter a linguistic debate, even though SANU has come to terms with it, I accept and respect it. As you can see, the laws are taken into account. As SANU said, that's how we write, there's who's above us. The civil defense sector was not introduced for the first time. He's been suspended. So they had it, so they abolished it, because they didn't need the training of the population, they didn't need the army, as former President Tadic would say – what we need the army for. It was an idea. On the occasion of the questions raised by Ms Filipovski, we in secondary military schools are schooling two directions – air-technical and electronic facts. They're senior officers, and we're training them for senior officers. We need them. Without them, our Air Force and anti-aircraft defenses don't work, they don't exist without them. With them, with their parents, we also signed contracts that oblige them to work a certain period of time in the Serbian Army after they finished school. They can compete for the Military Academy, like anyone else. So, to apply later and go through it, but at this point, the rules are like that. They have to finish, when they're finished becoming senior officers and we can't wait for them to come, because you can't believe how hungry it is for sub-offices, especially from middle-professional military schools, and later they can get ahead of school, they can get into the academy. But for now, they have to do this. We wait for them with impatience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34718	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34719	Thank you. Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, officers of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment recommending that in Article 1. The proposal for a law on military education adds Article 3, which reads: "The military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of the school system. “ Military education is of particular importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia and one of the pillars of the education system. The proposed law regulates the objectives, principles and specificities of military education in relation to the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. Education within the meaning of this law includes secondary education and education and higher education, which are implemented by higher education institutions. The bill harmonizes military education with the general rules governing the education system in the Republic of Serbia, based on a long tradition, and the military as a guarantee of stability and progress of our country, with education with a continuous process, is the fundamental basis of our society. Given that the Serbian Army's modernisation process is under way, the process must also be accompanied by a reform of education, i.e. a school system, which must be more efficient and quality. Education needs to be raised to a higher level, knowledge acquired by members of the Army is specific and it is necessary to take a good look at the school system, introduce new educational profiles that will improve military education, through which students or students will gain professional competence, so that the military remains a guarantee of peace and stability of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34720	The First Amendment was submitted by the MP prime minister, Dr Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34721	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 1. The bill adds item 3 which reads: "military education provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of medical centres." This amendment further defines Article 1 of this Act. As part of military education, I will talk today about the Military Medical Academy in Belgrade, which is a health institution and a centre for postgraduate medical education in Serbia. The academy complex is spread on a surface of 21 hectares, and the institution building is divided into 60 technical and technological continents. There are 27 clinics and 17 institutes in its composition. At the annual level, more than 30,000 patients are taken care of, which are civilians, which are military insurance companies, and as many surgical interventions are done and about 500 thousand specialist examinations. The VMA has about 2.5 thousand employees, of which 500 doctors and 160 with the call of professors and other teaching staff. It also teaches 400 doctors in specialist studies, which are domestic, as well as foreign students, and takes practical classes in secondary and higher medical schools. The Military Medical Academy was founded on March 2, 1884, and the current name VMA was won in 1950. From 1945 to 1962, it was treated by civilians, and a special special polyclinic for civil persons was opened. The government's decision of 1 January 2008 implemented the functional integration of VMA into Serbia's public health system. This created conditions for the free medical care of civilian insurance companies, as well as for the Clinical Centre of Serbia. The most significant VMA activity is the diagnosis and treatment of patients. 70 to 90 complex surgical interventions are performed daily, and the facility also has a mobile team for emergency medical interventions and emergency situations. A significant aspect of VMA's work is prevention of various diseases. On the occasion of Army Day, on April 23rd, VMA organised 22 different free specialist reviews, which were carried out in cabinets. All citizens could have answered, whether they had or didn't have a certified health book, whether they had or didn't have health insurance. This is how VMA marked Army Day, just as they know, treating people. Investment in Serbia's Army, military health care, is an investment in a better standard for all of us, in the health and better life of every Serbian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34722	On Article 1st of the amendment, the prime minister, Dr Milovan Krivokapic, submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34723	Dear Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this law, which adds item 3 which reads: "The military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities." A new law on military education enables students of military schools to progress later in the ministry. During the previous government, the Serbian Army was destroyed and totally demoralized. Professional soldiers with money they earned could not feed on their own and start families, or have a stable life so that they could devote themselves completely to their call. The disastrous standard of our professionals is best stated by the fact that during the previous government of a company of professional soldiers tasked in the land security zone in a month, including their salaries and diaries, she made less money than the individual watches of ministers in that government. Of course, that's understandable. A soldier is a patriot. He could and had to defend the country and weakly equipped, not to say hungry. Thanks above all to the President of the State, Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Defence, whose head is Mr. Alexander Vulin, a real man in the right place, who leads the state in the right direction and who are aware of the importance of institutions such as the Serbian Army, put her in the right place, raised her to her feet and made her today the pride of our people and our country. By submitting a set of draft laws regarding the military and, above all, military education, our government has shown that quality military education requires comprehensive training of its powers from secondary schools to the academy. The adoption and implementation of the Law on Military Education makes substantial and systematic progress in this segment, which provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on underdeveloped municipalities, which is further defined in the tabled amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34724	On Article 1 of the amendment, a Member of the Parliament of Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34725	I thank the chairman. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Officers, fellow MPs, since I had no opportunity to speak on the principle of these laws in the military, I would like to say at first before I say anything about my amendment, next – before 2012 the Army was on the right track to be completely destroyed. We have a task as a party in power to restore her dignity. It is very important to have an organized, equipped and satisfied army of Serbia. Serbia is a military neutral country located at the intersection of the east and west. Serbia is not an aggressor country, but must have a high-quality army and technical and personnel. So the Serbian Army keeps the borders of our beautiful Serbia. Serbia's army is actually the people of Serbia. Always sharing good and evil, they're here for the worst, and they're gonna live because of what's good and everything that makes our lives worth living. By 2012, the army had been demoted and it was very responsible and difficult to be a member of the army. With the overwhelming support of top commander and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the huge work of every member of the defence ministry, last year a 10% salary increase was provided for the military, logs were raised, solidarity aid was introduced and more than 700 apartments were divided through residential construction. It is working intensively to improve the quality of life and work of members of the Serbian Army and their families. What's important is that the budget now stands at around 70 billion and 500 million dinars and most of it is, of course, separate for the standard of army members. Indeed significant funds are provided for the continuation of weapons, for the continuation of equipment to the state-of-the-art combat systems and, of course, for maintenance and remonting techniques. The Institute of Military High School is restored, the Military Academy improves accommodation facilities, then the Sports Centre of the Sagittarius, health care. It's all over the fields, and thank you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34726	National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34727	Honored presidents, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the Serbian military school during the last two centuries, as many as there are, have been surprised by a large number of honest, honorable and quality commanders and brilliant military leaders who, together with their soldiers during the Balkan wars in the First and Second World War, but also during the conflict in the former SFRY space and, of course, during the defence of criminal NATO aggression, have written out the most famous pages of Serbian war history. As honorable as the Serbian officers throughout history were, however, the fate of the army was that from 2000 to 2012 the heads of the Ministry of Defence were those who worked hard to make their own army, as well as their own state desolation and humiliation. For this reason, in order to restore our former reputation, in addition to the training of new generations of officers, it is necessary for the local judiciary to do its job more effectively and process all those who have done any damage to the military in any way. They are extremely interesting circumstances under which the Cypriot company Villab Pharm LTD appears as the owner of four-tenths of the same apartment with the former defence minister and his wife, and also as co-investor of the joint facility on the most expensive pasture in Europe paid a million and a half euros. The company's director, Willab Pharm, was also the owner of Peyton Medical, who sold drugs and sanitary materials to the Ministry of Defence and the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance and thus earned more than 350,000 euros. According to official data from the Public Procurement Authority, Peyton Medical has even been awarded five times by a direct contract of over 11 million dinars. The Department of Defence bought drugs and sanitary material from Peyton Medical, four times in 2008, twice in 2010, and once in September 2011. The same firm also received two purchases for the needs of the Social Insurance Fund in 2010 and 2011, totalling over four million dinars. Before former Minister Dragan Sutanovac and his partner and public procurement accomplice became investors of the construction of a luxury building on the return pasture, the original investor and the permit holder of the facility were the company "Tresna" d.o.o. which, miraculously, a year before the sale of this investment to Dragan Sutanovac and other co-investors from the Ministry of Defence in the restrictive public procurement procedure received a job worth close to 20 million dinars. Because of this, it would be very interesting to determine who, instead of Dragan Sutanovac, covered the investment costs of one million euros, as well as to determine whether there was a binding material from Cyprus in the whole case, or whether "Tresna" was an extremely good bearer in 2012. With all this in mind, it is no wonder that Dragan Sutanovac, after a few years of the defence minister's term with a salary of around 100,000 dinars a month, today has a savings of over 300,000 euros, a 190-square apartment and a 139-square-square-square-square-square gallery of 139-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-pas, a total value of over one million euros, art paintings, weapons and a costly collection of watches worth several tens of thousands of euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34728	The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34729	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, Honored Representatives of the Army of Serbia and the BIA, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment I have submitted concerns Article 1. The bill, which adds Article 3, reads: "War education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to strengthening the state system. “ Serbia is as rare as a country in the environment, including Europe, to praise the long and rich tradition of military education. The need for the education of its own officer's staff was recognised in the first decade of the 19th century and resulted in the founding of the Artillery School in 1850. The development of military schooling was closely linked to the development of a Serb army that carried on its back the burden of liberation wars in the 19th and 20th centuries. The military was in fact the basis and protection of the national idea of creating a modern Serbian state in the 19th century, both the Principality and the Kingdom of Serbia. Thanks to the victories in the First World War, the Serbian army allowed the creation of the first Yugoslav state of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, i.e. the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and after World War II and the creation of the Socialist Yugoslavia. History wanted the Serb people to achieve their national and state-owned roots at the beginning of the third millennium by the name of the Serbian Army. However, part of this glorious and vivid history of the Serbian Army in one part of its existence is the eclipse, disgrace and devastate materially, morally and in any other sense in the period from 2007 to 2012. Unfortunately, part of my presentation will be devoted to this dark event from the time of the DS rule, as not long ago the Serbian Army, our defence and security capacities have been systematically weakened as a result of putting Serbia in an independent position in relation to individual alliances and centres of power. It is still impossible to collect all the damage this man has done with his political decisions, directed from foreign power centres, from foreign agents to Serbia's military. After taking office as minister, on 16 May 2007, Dragan Sutanovac, a former bouncer from nightclubs, the only minister who failed to pass a regular security check, urgently accessed the implementation of Serbia's military plan. Personal ambition and attitude towards right-hand relations, the left-hand pocket, were called security sector reform and the Serbian Army. In order for the mentioned relationship to function impeccably, immediately after taking over as Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, the minister's most loyal associates and assistants are bringing together bestmen and blood relatives. A picturesque, almost school example of a multiple conflict of interest was not an obstacle to the ambitions of Minister Sutanovac. From 2007 to 2012 Serbia is experiencing political, national and moral humiliation and mistreatment. Sometimes, in world terms, a respectable military force survives a reduction in the number of conditions, suffers an obsolescence of arms and the systematic functioning of organised crime in the organisation structures of the Ministry of Defence. What Minister Sutanovac didn't destroy, he sold below all costs. We still don't know where the difference of 270 million dinars went. It is not evident in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and in whose private pocket it is, it is perfectly clear to us. I'll remind you of the fact that only 398 tanks were destroyed and disbursed, which for any army in the world represents the most serious figure and the lack of capacity of the security system. By boasting and refusing to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, he damaged military pensioners and for that, the state of Serbia had to provide tens of billions of dinars in order to pay compensation and stop court disputes. This debt was paid back to military pensioners by the government of Aleksandar Vukic, as well as by many other debts. Of course, the government of Aleksandar Vukic, unlike one whose member was Sutanovac, did not borrow for these needs, but raised and revived the Serbian economy. With a responsible policy, led exclusively by the protection of national interest and care for Serbia's military, then Defence Minister Aleksandar Vukic, later Bratislava Gasic, Zoran Djordjevic and now Minister Vulin return their dignity to the military. Every year the funds allocated to the military budget are increasing. The funds planned for investment, most importantly, will be greater than 25% in the next period. Over the next three years, housing issues of security forces will be resolved faster, which will be an additional motive for them to stay and work in the armed forces. After a long time, security forces have the necessary equipment and uniforms. The concept of the active reserve is rounded up. Efforts are being made to reduce the technological lagging of the Serbian Army inherited from previous times, to accelerate the development of the domestic military industry and to obtain new military equipment. In the inherited situation after Dragan Sutanovac, it was easy for every defence minister to fail. It was much harder for the army to raise and enter history as the founder of a new modern Serbian army, and this new history has just been written and created by Vucic, Gasic, Djordjevic and now Vulin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34730	The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34731	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, gentlemen Serbian officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not want to compete here with those who have fled the session on patriotism. Whoever's a bigger patriot, that's what they're talking about. What is for SNS, what is for Alexander Vukic, what is for the Government of the Republic of Serbia patriotism, so these 90 factories in the previous five years, this also shows 170,000 jobs, that is hundreds of kilometers of highways. To go back to the topic we're talking about today is a better, more modernly equipped, proud army of the Republic of Serbia, they're proud officers of our army, they're soldiers and all those who want to enroll the Military Academy today, who plan to devote their working and lifespan to safeguarding their homeland. It is patriotism, as SNS and Alexander Vukic sees it. As patriotism was seen and seen by those who left this hall for a few hours, they have better things to do, it's a good time out there and they're going to sunbathe maybe, well, they saw him in the pastures, they saw him in expensive cars, they see patriotism in the Maldives, one of them petting his dog at home yesterday afternoon, while we were here discussing important laws. They saw patriotism in the closure of factories, in the robbery of everything that is folk and all that is state. Patriotism has also been seen in the closure of jobs. The Serbian Progressive Party, the Serbian government, all SNS MPs are defined to continue modernising Serbia, modernising our army, and, as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said, we are leading a policy of life. In order to lead the policy of life, we need a strong and well-equipped army of Serbia, because if our army is strong, if it is modern, it preserves peace, it protects the borders of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, as an absolute member of the SNS, we support everything you do, Mr. Minister, in the security sector and as someone who runs the Ministry of Defence in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34732	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34733	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 to improve this article and the whole law governing principles and objectives, but in Article 1 and Article 2 I think two key things that are very important for the whole system and for this law. Military education, which includes both education and training and military training, is done because of the need to defend the country. In Article 2, it says - military education is of special importance for the defence of the Republic of Serbia. These two definitions define the essence. So military education is aimed only at defending the country, there are no intended offensive elements, as the goal of attacking someone. The basic doctrine of the Serbian Army is the defence. Of course, there may also be offensive facts in the defense, so that it is not self-defense. Education, ultimately, should result in a well-trained army. So education for itself is fine, but it has to go down to the lowest level in the Army of the Republic of Serbia. I've always used examples, and this time I'm going to use an example, because I think the bill is best understood. During the 1999 aggression, I was in an anti-aircraft unit. The anti-aircraft defense unit has had a lot of success fighting with NATO's aggressor, but at one point a vessel appeared. At the time, NATO planes were flying at over 5,000 metres high and were mostly out of the reach of anti-aircraft defence. But they were wrong too, we used their mistakes, so we had successful facts, we launched certain missiles, or the shooters launched with success. Now, you have to set up where the education is that in a few seconds you have so much time that you know everything at the given moment that the rocket launch can hit the target. All education, training, knowledge, etc. is in a few seconds to succeed, in war conditions, in real war conditions. If it was well done, and in this case it was, we had a hit, we had this vertical of good training officers, officers, those who were learning and those who were supposed to act in war conditions. So it's not knowledge for knowledge, it's knowledge for application. In this case, we had an example, and that's a good example of how military education needs to reach its goal. It would be best if we were never in war conditions, but we must always prepare to be ready to act in the right way at all times and defend the country. I'm proud to be in that unit, to be in command of that unit and to be in the legendary Drin Division. One more thing to say about this today, I would support this committee to determine the consequences of NATO aggression, a part of it I saw because I was also a participant in all of this, and it is time to show ourselves to our people once and show the world what they did to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34734	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Ana Čaapić submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34735	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 1 with the aim of pointing out the importance of investment in military education, in scientific and research work, as well as of investing in the dedicated industry for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Today, Serbia has something to boast about. Today, Serbia has a strong and trained army that has shown exceptional training and readiness with partner armies. Today we have an army that defends our people's right to freedom, an army that is a deterrent factor for all those who intend to attack us. We have a trained army that helps preserve peace and stability in the region, which is also the goal of our President Alexander Vukic. Today, we raise significant funds for the dedicated industry. Only in the period from 2014 to 2017 did we allocate as much as 126m euros in the area of the dedicated industry. In 2017 alone, the government of the Republic of Serbia singled out 46m euros in the area of the dedicated industry. The efforts of our president and the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are bearing fruit. We made the export of arms and military equipment in the last five years for a billion and 215 million dollars. The military dedicated industry sector records continued employment growth, as well as exports of equipment and weapons. It is also important to note that between 2016 and 2018 contracts were concluded in the area of the dedicated industry of about $900 million. In Serbia, 185 companies dealing with arms and military equipment were registered by April 2018. In Western Serbia, factories such as "Milan Blagojevic" Luciani, such as "The First Partizan", "The First Five-year-old", are not only an engine of Western Serbia's development, but an engine of development of the entire Republic of Serbia. If the trend of production growth continues and the trend of export growth, we will be forced into the area of the dedicated industry to import labour. On the one hand, we have peace and stability in the region, and on the other hand we achieve economic goals, we reduce the unemployment rate, we improve the living standard of the population, which is extremely good because it is actually the policy of the responsible Government of the Republic of Serbia and it is going towards the goal of, as in the previous period, up to the 1990s, the military industry, i.e. the intentional one, being the pillar of the development of the Republic of Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34736	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34737	Thank you, President. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this Article with Article 3 which I have proposed the Law on Military Education will further affirm the overall development of our country, and in particular the development of regional medical centres. The government of the Republic of Serbia's public policy is seen in the security and implementation of strategic projects and new investments, creating the most favourable conditions for state development. Serbia's army exists because of its citizens and military health care to protect not only members of the military and their families, but all of our country's citizens. One of the pillars of our health has been VMA for decades, a renowned health institution where 20,000 surgical interventions are performed annually, and over half a million different specialist examinations, as well as three million diagnostic and laboratory procedures. In early March of this year, an eye bank opened on VMA and 13 million dinars were invested in its equipment. The newly opened eye bank will deal with the acquisition, preservation, quality assessment, processing and distribution of parts of the eye, in order to transplant to those people whose tissue transplant is the only chance to see again. Also, a donation contract has been signed for the 25 million dinars for the heliodrom infrastructure arrangement, which has the operational function necessary for the transport of injured and sick and thus will allow VMA to have a helipad according to the highest European and world standards. These facts are evidence of the strategic and visionary policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which planly and fundamentally realises projects of vital importance for the development of our country. Only on these investments in education and infrastructure will there be better conditions for the continuation of the reforms that are ultimately aimed at increasing the standard of living of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34738	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34739	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, gentlemen officers, MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The law on military education to highlight the need for increased investment in military education. The Military Academy, as an integral part of the University of Defence, provides the widest possible reputation not only for our military but also for our entire education system, as well as for the presence of representatives of students and young people from around the world who learn from our top professors and teachers at the Military Academy. It is not necessary to forget the 168-year-old tradition, as long as this institution, i.e. its beginning in 1850 by the founding of Artillery School by Prince Aleksandr Karadjordjevic. Fortunately for all of us today, although perhaps not all of us, we have witnessed investments in infrastructure works at the Military Academy worth 300 million dinars, and these include basic and capital works to renovate the sports center, gun range and military runways. The renovation of accommodation facilities is foreseen to help our cadets live and work in better conditions, and they will hopefully properly repay their homeland. The Military Academy is a dynamic institution that has nine accredited study programmes and four career training programmes from the socio-humanist and technical and technological educational fields in its work. Finally, by quoting you, Mr. Defence Minister, I would finish my presentation: "This year is a strong and satisfied Serbian Army, strong because we will arm and equip and satisfy it because we will improve the material position of all its members. The military academy is the pride of our army. “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34740	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34741	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a set of military laws, amendments, and when the laws from your area are usually in order, it is essentially in one orderly area thanks to your predecessors who have since 2012, a rather principled system has led to the right measures. And it is nothing controversial, the Serbian Army is the institution that has the greatest support in the people of Serbia, one of the biggest support, and above all because it is a functional system. Serbia's military is an institution that allows citizens of Serbia to live peacefully. The institution, in fact, has a reputation that comes from people who work there, which are mostly trained in the military education system. Military education is not to say, one of the most important parts of the Serbian Army, but at the same time the most important part of the education system in Serbia. You have a system of education that is clear, precise, focused, you have career leadership throughout your life, you have a practical lifelong learning, and it's all based on great military traditions and great traditions in education. It is a disciplined functional education system that provides clear and accurate results, and such results are sometimes in disbalancing with the education system that exists in Serbia. The system of education and military education allows a significant part of the generations to exploit all their resources not only in the field of education but also in the field of work and education. When you have a system that allows it to work, to make the most of the resources possible then it does not only contribute to the growth and development of individuals but also to the growth and development of Serbia as a whole. That's why 70 billion dinars we're investing in from the Republic of Serbia's budget for Serbia's Army return multiple thanks to the military education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34742	The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34743	President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected officers, colleagues and colleagues, here, we are now considering the Bill of Military Education, but I can't at least look back in half a minute not to go into distant history, to watch only the centuries-old history and tradition of military education. Military education and in general the military as a system was the most ordered part of societies in all systems, from the Kingdom of Serbia, from the Principality of Serbia, the Kingdom of SHS, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and also from the communist Yugoslavia, and it is also necessary for you as some successors, some previous officers and generals from the previous hundred years to be honored. Always reading and looking historically, so military institutions were the most organized system in all previous historical periods, I repeat in the last two centuries. It was decorated by organization, quality military education, morals, courage, discipline. There was a black hole where little, not by its own fault from 2000 to 2011. I'm personally convinced that the morale of the officers who were working was maintained even though their colleagues were here, and the minister presented information about what happened at the military's devasion and how much moral reperection it had, the fall of morality in the military, but yet I think our officers were educated. They may have had their morale, but thanks to morale, they endured those ten years, and now, not to mention many colleagues, they said that the army is aware of what this government and President Vukic are doing all it does to make the defence system level again and even more improved. As far as the law itself is concerned, you see, in this session we had congregations, several reform laws concerning education, or educational laws relating to civil education. It was a set of reform laws to improve and improve the organisation of primary, secondary education and higher education. This set of military laws, first of all this Law on Military Education, belongs to me also to a set of these educational laws, and I think it's the same reform law. Why reform? It is in this law that clearly everything, specificity and manner of organization, military doctrine and military doctrine of defence of the state are respected, but what is evident, in many members is the urgency to bring the law in line, especially on military higher education with the basic birth law on higher education. The precondition was created by that parenting law on higher education in Articles 35 and 31, which recognized military education, and now this law in several members is being implemented, of course, by respecting all specificities of military education of service and defence. The trend is clear for harmonisation of laws and desires which will be a new quality for military education to become an integral part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. In those areas where the specificities of military service and education are respected, it is clearly stated, but you have what fell into your eyes, Article 5, 22, 36, 37, 71, where there are clear findings that everything that is not regulated by this law will be applied to the provisions of secondary education and education and higher education. This is a clear legal orientation and attempt, i.e. to make it known that military education in the future, and I think it is a strategy and ministry from what you have written, that military education and civil education, as we say, become an integral system of Serbia's education, which will give an even greater quality of education and civil, and also to the military, and that it will be even more modern and much better and better and defence strategies and the doctrinal part related to defence advanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34744	National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The People's Messenger Milosav Milojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34745	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on military education. In Article 1 I propose adding the 3rd position – military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. In this context, this amendment introduces the improvement of the private sector as one of the guidelines on which military education should be pursued as the basic subject of this law. As I have said in some previous talks, I believe that the development of the private sector is the key to Serbia's development in the coming decades. In this sense, military education is also the cornerstone of the modern army. An educated, young, capable, and professional fit in every area of economic and economic life is essential. Modernization of the army is needed to catch a link with developed military industries and ensure peace, security and security for all of our citizens. Of course, I believe that military education must and should contain all those things that have been celebrated throughout history by our army and the Serb soldier. Only with a combination of modern understandings, the development of the Army and with respect for our tradition and currents that we have created in difficult circumstances will we get the result we want. I'm convinced this is reform law, and it's getting us better in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34746	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34747	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected officers of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Law on Military Education as a law that crowns the work of the Army and, among other things, provides for a continuity that has been going on for a period of time and gives results that we and our ancestors are proud of, and will certainly be proud of, our successors. What I'm trying to say, and I really owe it to the citizens of Serbia, because of the army of the Republic of Serbia, but also because of the victims of NATO bombing, and that's actually the fact that in this NATO bombing, which was called by the NATO Alliance, an action in which they bombed the Republic of Serbia, a "merciful angel", which is enough to speak of them and be honored. The action in which civilian targets were bombed, where one RTS, the Chinese embassy, were bombed, where civilian victims... There was only one civilian victim that existed, so there would have been a lot, and there was a lot more. It's probably not true or established, but the number of civilian casualties was so great that it serves them the honor. What we have in response to right now is the Army of the Republic of Serbia, exactly the education of the Republic of Serbia's Army, and how our army with the technique it possessed, with the tools and weapons it owned, managed to shoot down an invisible NATO alliance plane. Of course, our army knows that, and how did we do that, let them study NATO alliance armies at their schools. Let them learn on the case of an army of the Republic of Serbia, which has managed to respond aggressively and honestly and in the interests of its citizens, to protect its citizens, its property and what was possible at that time. We have somehow defended ourselves against NATO aggression, but since 2000 the yellow company has been unfortunately against NATO aggression, according to the Army of the Republic of Serbia, besides the weapons and weapons lost in NATO bombing compared to the Sutanovac and the rest of the yellow company, they have been ten times worse since the Army of the Republic of Serbia, and it is precisely that there was no taking responsibility for both the state and the military since the future of the Republic of Serbia and the Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34748	Thank you. You've wasted group time. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34749	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, to Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the bill, which adds item 3 – military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to tax liability. For the dedicated industry of a country made up of companies dealing with the production of special-purpose products, most often from the domain of arms, it is very important to have an educated and professional staff who will be able to meet the high-tech requirements of the military but also civil sector for special purpose products. The strong and trained dedicated industry represents a significant momentum for the development of the country, especially the local self-government in which it is located. With regard to the above, I would refer to the dedicated industry "First Partizan" from Užica, a city from which I came as an example of 90 years of successful work since 1928, when it was founded. With more than 1.00 employees and a production range of over 500 species and caliber ammunition, the first company at the country's level with exports in the past year is $500m. With the comprehensive assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry of New Investments and Development "First Partizan" Užice, better results and higher profits are recorded year-on-year, and the plan is to reach demanding exports at the level of $750m in 2020. All of this has a very positive impact on the development of local self-government through the employment of new workers, higher tax allocations both in the local and the republican budget, and as a socially responsible and socially responsible company, all of its obligations calms down in a timely manner. Such a business policy achieves a high level of tax liability, and hence a positive impact on the country's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34750	The MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has the Soul Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34751	Thank you. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. A bill on military education of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the subject itself, the basic objectives and principles that this law regulates. Quality in one society begins and ends with education. Being a soldier, an officer, an officer of the Republic of Serbia's Army is one responsible, secure call, but also an invitation full of challenges. A military invitation is a great opportunity for young people in Serbia who want to build their careers by protecting their country, but also for peace and security in the world through numerous military missions. Military education and training are specific, the opportunities for advancement are indeed numerous, and hence, it is not surprising that our young men, our girls, should always be part of our military schools, enroll in the Military Academy, apply to courses for professional soldiers, but also to be employed by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. That is not surprising because the army of the Republic of Serbia has just been recognised as an institution of the highest confidence of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic have launched a major project of residential construction and have already defined locations for building apartments for members of the military, police and security services. Locations have been secured in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Kralje and Vranja. The defence ministry did not wait, but in 2017 it provided 612m dinars to subsidise housing loans for the needs of members of the Republika Srpska Army and was distributed around 233 loans to resolve the housing issue. The developments also take place in military education in the initial reforms that led last year to two ministries, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Education signing an important agreement on the introduction of elements of dual education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34752	National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34753	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, surely this is one of the most important laws when it comes to the Army of Serbia, because as we educate future officers, so will our army tomorrow. The Serbian Army has shown in its long tradition that it can defend its country and people. Today, 100 years since the end of World War I, we are proud to remember all the glorious victories of the Duke and the ordinary soldiers who fell for our freedom. I also want to remember today the soldiers who died in the "Green Berets" criminal action yesterday 26 years ago in Dobrovoljajska Street in Sarajevo, in the town where I was born and for this crime no one has yet answered. In order to preserve peace, the Serbian army must continue to perfect itself when it comes to education, what this law adopts, and when it comes to the restoration of military equipment. From Russia we received moments, tanks and combat vehicles and thanks to the excellent relations between Serbia and Russia, President Vukic and Putin, Serbia's sky is safe today. Unfortunately, it wasn't always this way, it wasn't about Serbia's Army. We had periods when they tried to convince us that we didn't need the army, when over 500 hoods and tanks were melted and destroyed. But the people of Serbia, who always had great confidence in the military, punished them in the next elections. Since then, Serbia has created a strong, modern and serious army, an army that can preserve the peace we always seek, protect our independence and guarantee that we will never again be reunited with Jasenovac, Jastrebarska or Storm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34754	The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34755	I thank the presidents, distinguished ministers, respected officers of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, for the amendment that I propose to add Article 3 to Article 1 which highlights the importance of military education in terms of better training, easier employment and, of course, also poverty reduction in the Republic of Serbia. Military education by adopting this law definitely becomes part of general education in Serbia and, of course, the basis of a modern society where educated young people, of course, will be able to recognize all the challenges and threats and apply all their skills, primarily in the interest of preserving stability and peace for Serbian citizens. Military education has always been multidisciplinary and what is very significant is that in the future, besides working in the military sector, it will also provide civil work. Therefore, broad education is provided, providing practical knowledge, which means that it will be easier to come to work and that it will ensure a reduction of youth unemployment in the Republic of Serbia. In addition, I would like to point out that young people who finish military schools are particularly sensitive in the sense that they love their country and that everything they do is doing in the interest of their fellow citizens and their countries. We've heard more than once that our military school dates back to the 19th century, and I'm mentioning that, once again, for the reason that much of our experience is also great strategies, tactics that are not only taught at our schools, but at all the world's academics. That is why I note once again that this is a chance for Serbia to become a regional centre with military-educated capacities, where students from both the region and the world will be educated alongside our students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34756	The First Amendment was submitted by National MP Olivera Ognjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34757	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, gentlemen, the officers invest in future generations through their education is a driving mechanism and the strength of the future of every society. I will quote our President Vukic, who said: "Today the battles are fought in the field of knowledge, discipline, improvement of skills and results." Serbia in the defence and security sector, as well as the training of officer personnel, wants to take over the region's leadership position, given its geographical position, training and military training and the reputation of military education in the world. The military profession marks the organised professional system of a special organisational structure designed to prepare the country's defence society. There are different specialists whose work is aimed at working on land, sea or air, which makes a huge variety of functions they perform, so their performance requires the possession of different competences and knowledge from various areas, which certainly represents a treasure of exceptional quality personnel who have the capacity and can respond to different challenges of the market, the development of the economy and the realization of business and product quality. So, regardless of what the regime, which ruled this country from 2000 to 2012, has disrupted the position of the military in the state and destroyed as much as it could, our government has regained respect, respect and honor for the Serbian Army, because the military represents a link without which it does not function and cannot survive any state. I'm a child of a military family, and for me, the army represents the strength and size of a country. That's why I want to express my gratitude to this government for making progress in seeking to continue to strengthen our country's military, security and defence systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34758	The National MP Branimir Rancic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34759	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mr. Vulin, the honourable gentlemen of the ministry, the honourable MPs, is my special honor, and my personal pleasure to speak in this high home of democracy about a set of military laws. As a doctor of interns in the Guard Units, I served military time under command, then a captain, and now Colonel Veselin Sljivancanin and future General of the Republika Srpska Army Momir Talic. Let's get back to the amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 where Article 3 is added, which reads: "military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to improving health conditions". In this regard, VMA is a higher education institution within the University of Defence which implements study programmes in the field of medical science. At the Medical Faculty VMA are organized and implemented programs of medical studies, medical specialisation and close medical specialization and doctoral studies. Military health employs more than four and a half thousand people who care about the health of 113 thousand military insurance and citizens. Military doctors examine about 115 thousand people a year, military insurance and 300,000 civilian insurance companies. About 10,000 military insurance companies and 20,500 civilian insurance companies are stationaryly treated. That's why that well-known line, when patients say - I've been examined by a military doctor, which can also be a summary of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34760	National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34761	Dear President, Your Honor, Your Honor, gentlemen, I'm in a dilemma right now. While I was waiting for my turn to talk, I read on the Internet that China was involved in the struggle to produce car batteries and that China last year exported 780,000 electric and hybrid cars, and plans to export two million of those cars next year. What does that have to do with what I'm about to say? It immediately associated me with Valjevo, batteries that would be able to engage and help and find their place in this fight. However, in 2007 these batteries "Krusik-accumulators" sold for 57m dinars in June, with an account of 23m, and claims amounted to 78m. That's all the bad guys could do. In 2013, the board of directors whose president was Comrade Martinovic annulled the privatisation. However, the minister at the agriculture ministry was Mr. Radulovic, and of course it could not agree and the Ministry of Economy formed a monitoring commission. At the moment, Krusik-accumulators, with the owner, were at the time 180 workers, owed 185 million. It's fortunate that the workers, some of them going by any means necessary, kept that factory safe. Seventy-two workers "Krusik-purpose", bought and today there is a "Krusik-accumulators" working unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34762	Thank you, MP. You spent two minutes. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34763	Madam President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen, it has never been easy and easy to run an independent and independent state policy. It has always been a political path that is harder to go both in this time and in the positions and where the Republic of Serbia is certainly military neutrality is one of the pillars and foundations of an independent and independent state policy. I can say, since in a number of calls I was a national MP, that by comparing some of the previous times, when it was a policy of military neutrality, unlike the policy of false military neutrality at the time, there is now a genuine policy that wants to have a free, strong, successful and powerful army of Serbia. In previous periods, we had the opportunity, today more colleagues pointed out, from the destruction of weapons, to the devising of any other policy, other than the crawling presence of the NATO Pact, today we are renewing our weapons, but what is most important is access to the revision of strategic documents. I don't have much time, but I want to point out a few things that we need to pay particular attention to, one refers to the fact that Serbia has total defence under the defence strategy. This means that the reserve must be in first place and on the other hand a stronger and more active engagement of all defence entities. We've had one chance to discuss the state of defense report here, so I'd better not comment on what we found at the time. I think that one of the ways of deterring, not just weapons, is message to all those who want to commit aggression towards the Republic of Serbia, motivated population, the connection of all defence entities, and certainly the fact that Serbia wants to lead an independent and independent policy. In that sense, this is a real policy of military neutrality.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34764	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34765	Thank you, President. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the Law on Military Education, military education is certainly in the function of economic development and in this part is a special reference to the dedicated industry and education from which the dedicated industry has an exceptional benefit. Here I would like to thank you for the great engagement and continuity of the efforts of President Aleksandr Vukic's idea to establish production at the FAP in Priboj and to include FAP in the Serbian defence industry system. Many thanks for this both to previous ministers and to Bratislav Gasic and Mr Zoran Djordjevic and to you and your associates, I must specifically mention Mr Nenad Milorad and Mr Bojan Zrnić, because the witness herself is how much effort they make on the ground to make a really good project. Regarding the whole story of Serbia's security and security in the region, we can ask a simple question whether during the prime minister's term of office, Alexander Vukic, or the presidential mandate of Aleksandar Vukic, a Serbian pogrom happened, or whether there was an exorcision of Serbs from their hearths? It's not. Have we prevented the humiliation of Serbian victims, and there have been many, by hyperproduction of an apology, respected ministers, we have almost come to a stage that at the border crossing towards Croatia you give a passport at one point, and at another point you go to apologize. These things will never happen again, as neither will those sad military parades in front of the high furnaces of Smederjevska Iron. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34766	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34767	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Vulin and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, had opportunities to discuss the principle of discussing all military laws, especially the Law on Military Education. The minister has presented all the advantages of this law. I agree that this law is very good given how much it has been done for military education and I would stress only the data that we have that 300 million dinars have been invested in the Military Academy and the reconstruction, and that 30 million have been invested in military high school. With this in mind, since women are increasingly applying for this honorable profession, I would like this amendment to be adopted because it refers to the introduction of a concept – gender equality in the Law on Military Education. Once education was completely inaccessible to women, sometimes the concept of gender equality was not recognized, but today it's a little different. Today, through the work of the Coordination Body for Gender Equality, as well as the work of all women in political functions, this concept is very well known. If we remember the Antifascist Front of Women founded in 1942 and the role of that front in World War II, we can be proud. One hundred thousand women participated in the People's Liberation Army, 25,000 women died, 40,000 women were wounded, three thousand incapacitated, but also two thousand women became officers, three thousand women became bearers of the Partisan Monument and 91 women were decorated by the Order of the National Hero. I pointed out this information exclusively to remember these working, honorable, honest, combat women who were willing to give their lives for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34768	The amendment, which is added after Article 1 by a new member, was jointly submitted by MEPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Members of the 2nd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta and MP Marko Djurisic. The nun Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34769	Yesterday and today, ministers call us young people from all over Serbia, from Kosovo Mitrovica, from Zubino Potok, from Zvecan, from Leposavic, from Strpc and say – ask the minister, ask our officers – why they force us into the Shiptar army? We didn't understand, so we asked him to explain it further, and they told us what it was about. Many young people living in KIM, Serbs, wanted and wanted to be in the Serbian Army and you made one problem administrative and it is simply amazing that because of one administrative problem you did not allow it. If you had accepted and allowed, simply that you treated our young men from Strpce, Zvecan, Zubi's stream as a young man from Somboro, Kragujevac, Nis, you would have long have filled the required quota of soldiers because there were indeed many interested. Now maybe a little less because they're disappointed, they say, in their own country. Here's the thing, Minister. It is that anyone applying for an army of Serbia should obtain and submit certain documentation and, of course, that is fine. It is that one of the documents is needed – the belief of impunity, and there is a problem. Courts in central Serbia do not give these people with KIM confidence that they are not being punished. So they don't treat Serbian citizens, they don't treat Serbian citizens. If they wanted to take that belief, which they didn't want to, then they'd have to take it from the Ship's provisional courts. Even if they took that belief, when they came to compete for the army, that belief would not be accepted, which, of course, is quite all right. Minister, on behalf of all these Serbs, don't just drill into your chest, I don't mean personally but generally you from the government, you will help, you will help, you will not know what to do, instead something often turns the other cheek, but, on behalf of these young people, please solve both you and Vukic and the entire Government this administrative problem, this administrative obstacle. You must remove it and you must allow young people from every place in KIM, every Serbian citizen, to come and be a soldier in Serbia's Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34770	Thank you, you've wasted group time. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34771	First, let me tell you, no one's drilling. We are very measured at what we do and, as you know, we hold to our country. After all, it is seen how this government behaves, especially as President Vukic behaves. We have, yet I do not want to say the exact number of our members who are from the KIM area, almost daily and traveling and living from the KIM space, and in our units, there are officers and soldiers by contract and sub-office. I understand what you're talking about, because it wouldn't be a problem only with the military, you have more problems when it comes to a judicial or judicial network, because we can't and will never accept any stamps from any Kosovo institutions. We can't do that, but we can see what concrete mechanisms are, they've been working out for other things, and we'll solve for that. I'm glad you got your attention, I'll check if there's one, one, but it'll be enabled. You know, while I was head of KIM's office, we agreed with the Military Academy that then two students from KIM space had the right to be enrolled in the Military Academy, without any conditions, just to be there and to train them as future elite. We did the same thing, for example, with the Diplomatic Academy, so the best students from the University of Kosovo Mitrovica were automatically admitted to the Diplomatic Academy and today these guys are working in our foreign ministry and they're great. So I'm going to check this out right now, and if that's the only obstacle, don't doubt it's going to be regulated at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34772	Thank you. Parliamentarian Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Bosko Obradovic has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment? Does anyone want a word? (No) Representatives Tatjana Macura, Nenad Bozic, Vladimir Djuric and Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34773	What's interesting is that all reforms when it comes to military and military education begin with praises from the ambassadors of America and other countries and that's something that makes us Serbian radicals make us a certain reservation when it comes to the adoption of these reformers and, as you call them, the law that will bring the newspaper into the military. All we can remember is how the military reform began intensively after 2000, when Ambassador Montgomery, praising then military minister Boris Tadic, destroying our arrows, destroying our tanks, destroying our weapons, and saying that, while we had both rockets and tanks and cannons were very weak, we were weak, and now that we're destroying it, we're strong, now we're powerful, and now we're all respecting us. And why is this name and the name of the ambassador very interesting here? Because it is continuity when it comes to this personality, because it is now working more, the truth is not an ambassador, but it is still, as far as I know, an adviser to the ruling party, the Serbian Progressive Party. This same Montgomery and what a significant role he plays not only in the councils but also in the implementation of some policy. And we have a situation here that foreigners continue to praise us for being very good, and on the other hand we see that we are increasingly and more in a colonial position compared to the great forces. On the other hand, we have advocating the entry into the European Union and this advocating entry into the European Union involves reforms that deny all this proposed by the legislator, so that we will have to adapt to these European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34774	On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Marina Ristic submitted. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished officers, we all agree that military education is of special importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia. Then why didn't you finish this bill? Which is why there are no scientific and research members, you have already resorted to the use of Article 35. A law on scientific and research action that provides for general conditions, rather than concrete issues concerning the scientific and research activities of the Serbian Army specifically? You didn't deal with the most important ones. Since you've already copied everything, you've just eliminated the General Staff, why didn't you do this? Or maybe because scientific institutes, research institutes, research centres can't work without the most professional personnel? Thus, points 126 to 150 of the 1994 Law remain in force. As long as you don't know, they're full of illogicalities. These remain for the Yugoslav Army, the federal government, the federal minister, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Point 140 refers to point 117, point 144, point 106), how? You left a real papaziania. You are playing with institutions that are of special importance to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34776	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. He's not here. Tomislav LJubenović, 14 seconds. No more, your group has no more time. You've wasted group time, only authorized. Parliamentarians Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Vladan Zagradian submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. The word has Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34777	Mr. Minister, I'd like you to listen to me and I expect your support to be adopted by these proposed amendments that I'm going to talk about. Namely, we have here suggested that behind the words - Serbia's armies, add a comma and a supplement - as well as education in the spirit of military honor, patriotism and traditions of the Serb army. We believe that, although the trend is the modernization of the 21st century, we must not remain immune and forget terms and words such as Serbian tradition, the tradition of the Serb army, patriotism and the Serb military honor, and that this should be potential, especially in the law. I do know that the army carries this with it in its heart, but I also think that the legislator should potentiate these words and make this proposal a bright example, because if we can be proud of something, we can be proud of the Serbian army and our eternal tradition that it has brought us. It's one of the most bright things of the Serbian people. Are we looking back in time, if we're looking at some direct past, we can be proud of it. I would also like to commend your move to return Mr Lazarevic, General Lazarevic as a lecturer at the Academy. We have another war hero here in our benches, General Bozidar Delic. A number of other examples, General Ratko Mladic, General Pavkovic, who unfortunately were often persecuted in the previous period and precisely because of this need to be proud of our military tradition and our military close past, I would ask the ruling majority to accept this amendment. Just by accepting this amendment, we will prevent the situation that has recently occurred to us, that at the reception on Army Day, organised by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, the traitor and spy Momcilo Perisic appear at Andric's wedding. It's a bad example that shouldn't serve soldiers, and that's why I'm calling for one of these syntagmas to be added to this law. I'd also like to appeal to article 21. The Defense Act, to ask you to assign to the Alliance the organizations of the reserve military elders the status of the association of importance for defence. I think indeed, and especially the officers here next to you know the importance of this association and what their response is when they are called to military exercises in relation to, say, regular troops. So, an extremely significant association.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34778	You've wasted group time. Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34779	Just for a little while. You know, words like morality, tradition, respect are the essence of our army, as well as freedom, and every member of us carries it in his heart. As you know, we have restored morale to military function as a function. In the Department of Defense itself, you will have a moral officer again, you will have a program that deals with this and you will have everything that every army has, including an army with a much, much shorter tradition than ours. We're certainly never gonna let it get lost in any way, but we don't have to regulate it by law, because it's the law at the end of the line and it can't be regulated. It's something the army carries and everyone will wear. As for the military's relationship with education, according to the past and tradition, the Serbian army can really only be extremely proud and I'm sure you're all proud of our army and of the people who make up our army. We hold on to tradition and any elder, soldier, officer, whatever, until there's no judicial verdict, we can't treat him any differently than we do the way we do. You know, the military was never a political institution. We strictly make sure that those rules that are in the military are respected. It can only change in this way that we're talking about, and I'm sure all the generals are very proud of the military's attitude to themselves right now. You have rightly mentioned General Lazarevic. Just this small example that 19 years since NATO aggression for the first time, the third army elders gathered in command of the Land Army in Nis. They shouldn't have done that. Prior to that, they were not allowed to gather, to be seen, to enter the rooms of the Serbian Army, the rooms they lived for and worked for, but to gather in cafes. Now, that can't do it anymore, and that change is certainly visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34780	Thank you. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34781	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and to Article 2. A bill proposing the regulation of military education as part of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia and as an action of particular importance for defence, we have submitted a number of amendments to which we are trying to improve the proposed legal text. Military education and training involves training programmes for the Serbian Army's reserve officers and training that are being implemented by military-school institutions. When it comes to the reception process and the criteria for selecting candidates for the Central Military School, it can be noted that the selections covering the knowledge check, the security check, psychological, and medical, or health assessment, lacked the verification of the physical ability, or the willingness of the candidates who, you will agree, are very important. When selecting candidates for enrolment in the Military School or the School of Reserve Officers, criteria are clearly set, but unfortunately these criteria do not meet the real needs because they have shown in practice that this is not the case. Then, a very important issue that is also raised when employed in Serbia's Army, is it that candidates who after completing high school, who are also taking a course for officers of three, six or nine months, or a spare officer's school, have a priority of employment in Serbia's military or defence system in relation to the needs of the service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34782	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34783	This amendment is of a technical nature, and if you had adopted it, Mr. Minister, a salary to officers, soldiers, the standard would have been no better, but this bill would have made a little more sense. The amendment was submitted to Article 2 of Article 4 of this Law, where it is proposed to delete the following words: "in the sense of this law". Very often in this session, controversy was heard between the former and current regimes, which means the amendment is "expunged", and it turned out to be contagious, that it might be embarrassing to submit amendments that read as "expect". I will now be practical, so let me say – if some legal proposal is intended for someone who has committed a crime to be rewarded with 100 euros or 100 dollars, it cannot read and correct the proposal if there is – someone who commits the crime will be rewarded with 50 dollars. Such a legal proposal must be deleted and we have suggested that it be deleted here, because a better solution than to delete it is not, and we believe that perfecting, both for young experts and for those who have already affirmed themselves in their business, is necessary and constantly necessary. It simply has to be, in order for a man to do the best job he's responsible for, paid, and especially when it comes to the military. Mr. Minister, you, as a member of the government, could influence yet another problem, which is that in the government, as you say very often, lobby and initiate an initiative to try to assign diplomatic immunity to people who are engaged there at the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. As members of the SRS, we've demanded it more than once. Even the president of our party asked the government about the solution to the problem. You know for a fact that the state of Serbia would also gain its reputation in the world with our friends to become incomparably better than it is today. Try it, it doesn't hurt, and Serbia needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34784	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34785	Compared to the 2000 period, so far, the situation in military education has improved, but that's not enough. If you compare that number of cadets at the Military Academy, which were only a hundred, and now it's over a thousand, it's a significant shift, but a bigger promotion must be states everywhere and in every place and all state functions to popularize a military call. What I want to take advantage of now to tell you, Mr. Minister, is that after two years of the term of office of this government, the question is what will the SRS continue to potential – when will Serbia start the process of membership in the ODKB? You have to face it, and I believe you are a responsible man and you know what kind of environment we are in, what dangers all threaten Serbia. And you yourself talked about it on more television and in more interviews that pressures by the enemies from the west would be getting bigger and bigger. I will use the words of Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, who told the Americans and those Western enemies and Russia and Serbia in 2004 that Russia would become without a doubt the greatest military force, a superpower. This force that today has the most modern weaponry, a force that has more than 30 times in the last few years perfected its cruise missiles, which has a new rocket called "Sarmat" that the whole world suffers from, not because it wants to conquer the world, but that it shows Americans and enemies of the NATO Pact who run an orchestrated, hysterical campaign against Russia and its friends, that they can do anything. I can't do it anymore and that's why Putin told them then, and now he's told them when he was in the final line of his campaign what I'm about to tell you - if you didn't listen to us at the beginning of your 2016 mandate that it's essential that we make a strategic, military and political alliance with the Russian Federation, listen to me now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34786	Mr. Vulin has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34787	Just a very short one. As you know, Serbia has defined itself as military neutrality and military neutrality is a choice we strictly adhere to. When we say military neutrality then I tell you that in both major NATO blocs through the Partnership for Peace and the ODKB through observer status we have the highest possible degree of non-member country. Since you asked specifically about the ODKB I will tell you this year we have the largest number of joint activities with the ODKB in history, so, since the establishment of this co-operation is going very well, we are very happy about it and we will continue to act just like NATO. I've remained in charge of my colleagues from Dveri to answer the question of the Union of Reserve Military Elders, I want to say that they are certainly one of the organisations that deserves to be recognized in particular, that they are of great interest to our defense, that they are of great interest to the Ministry of Defence and that everything that happens to be my decision will certainly be those who have to become part of the comprehensive system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34788	Don't be co-workers, so you have no right. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. Only the minister replied, he didn't say anything wrong. Well, you can't, but you know you have to have a parliamentary basis, but you don't, you haven't said a word, he didn't insult you. [[Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Nothing bad, but I have a replica.)]] Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: So I have to go by the Rules of Then, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34789	Mr. Arsic, then I must resort to harming the Rules of Procedure, and remind Mr. Secretary, Mr. Wolin that military neutrality is not a constitutional category. I have a constitution in front of me. This constitution was adopted in 2006. We've given consent in making it and we've had our own representative, we've had numerous objections, but our insistence is this preamble to the Constitution that KIM is an inalienable part of our country. But after so many years, after a period of 12 years, and now we are entering the strongest and worst possible phase of pressure from the West, those of the EU that you think are our friends, which are members of the NATO Pact, to give up the work of our territory. That's why, Mr. Arsic, you're supposed to, and I'm advertising Article 27 and 107, to warn Mr. Minister, because he's a part of a session like all of us. While you have already mentioned Mr. Vulin, our status in the NATO Pact, or observer status, I am a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation, but a man who is head of the delegation, and unfortunately is an MP, Dragan Sormaz is the largest lieutenant in Serbia and the Serbian Parliament. We are going to NATO Parliamentary Assembly meetings where not war neutrality is extended but Serbia's NATO pact stretching. That's how our delegation comes in, and we don't want any military neutrality, because as our president and every representative of the SRS, a small country that is not protected at this time, under all pressures, to kidnap KIM, and so the Raška area and Vojvodina will come in turn, and therefore it is necessary to join the ODKB in order to protect ourselves and be under the umbrella of the great and powerful brotherly Russia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-04-0.u34790	I really don't know what to say to you under Articles 27 and 107, because what Serbia is is a neutral country is the result... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: That's not good. ) Well, that's your point of view, you have the right to change it, but when the Assembly made that decision, you voted for it as I did. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I do not. Yes, it is. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) All right, and now with today's work we are finishing and continuing on Monday at 10.00 hours of discussion on details, the amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic.
