ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we had a big scandal in Belgrade a few days ago, when the Secretary General of the North-Atlantic Pact at a Belgrade Faculty, at the Faculty of Philology, explained to the Serbian students a lecture on the issue of aggression, the bombing of the NATO Pact at the SRJ in 1999, NATO Secretary General Jens Stotenberg, explained that the bombing of the SRJ was for our good, that democracy had to be introduced into Serbia under bombs and that it was necessary to collapse with the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, although Slobodan Milosevic remained in power for a year and a half after the bombing. Of course, this is an unprecedented scandal and I'm curious about what the Minister of Education Mladen Sarcevic is going to take, what measures will he take towards the Dean of the Faculty of Philology, Professor. Ljiljani Markovic, who was otherwise a member of the SNS and a committee candidate in the Belgrade City Assembly elections? How can such a person do this in the middle of Belgrade to Serbian students? Is that the truth we agree to? Is it possible that we are prepared to be so humiliated that we cannot respond in Belgrade to any such provocation? I expect the Dean of Philology to be on emergency shift. Otherwise, she had one statement in the course of a Belgrade campaign when she said the SNS only collects experts on its list and is due to Serbia's future. Whether Serbia's future is going to make peace with the fact that it's our own fault that 2,500 civilians have been killed, that we have more than 100 billion dollars of material damage from this criminal bombing or, if not, let's see that this lady is being replaced. We also had a statement from European Neighbourhood Commissioner Johannes Han, who said we should not hope, since resolving Kosovo's issue is not the only condition for Serbia's entry into the EU. I will remind you that Aleksandar Vukic recently said in an interview with Reuters that he wants to reach a comprehensive agreement with Pristina, but that we need guarantees then that Serbia will become an EU member by 2025. It is now clear that it will not be so, that the recognition of Kosovo by Serbia is only one in a series of humiliations required of us and that certainly there is no perspective for Serbia in the EU. With this in mind, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic should explain to us what and how further, whether he will finally give up the Eurointegration path, from the collapse in the Brussels process in negotiations with so-called. Pristina, or do we continue, even though we know what's coming? One more thing, no post-communist state has become a member of the EU if it did not become a NATO pact first. Is Serbia ready to join NATO to gain perspective in the EU? That should be explained to us, and that would be the most humiliating yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46840	Thank you. The word is made by fellow MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46841	Thank you. Today I will ask a number of questions about the problem of protecting Serbia's waters. In front of the eyes of the people's authorities, the authorities of persecution that do not react to the long end of the Sava dikes upstream from New Belgrade, savage people, endangering the security of the entire city, deafening the ossion of numerous legal regulations, the Space Plan of Serbia, the Water Act, the Criminal Law of Serbia, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, and the Law on Law on Law of Law. A couple hundred people built cottages on the so-called so-called. water land, which matches the rope and somewhere in the immediate zone of protection of the springs of Belgrade's waterway. Since 2015, the Secretary of the Department for Legalisation of Objects, Nemanja Stajic, has not rejected any requests for the law of illegally built cottages in the Sava River Basin, upstream of the Sava Bos, regardless of the fact that cottages threaten the rash that protects more than 100,000 people from floods in the Sava blocs, as the source of water used by all Belgradeers. Top experts in the building area have said that this illegal construction can be characterized as a deliberate damage to vitally important systems, endangering lives and a materially large number of people. Therefore, regarding this problem, I ask the following question to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Water Sector, the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Public Enterprise "Serbiavod", as well as the current mayor of Belgrade. Whether the failure of its duties will remove Nemanja Stajic, from the office of the secretary of the Secretariat for the legalisation of objects, and whether criminal charges are filed against him or any other responsible person responsible for the mentioned problem under Articles 227 and 261. Serbia's criminal law? I recall, Article 261 of the Official or Responsible Person who does not take the prescribed environmental protection measures or does not act on the decision of the competent authority to take measures to protect the environment will be fined or jailed for three years. Article 227, the responsible person who, by taking advantage of his or her position or damage, by exceeding the limit of his or her authority or by failing to do his/her duty, shall obtain to himself or another natural or legal person the opposite of his/her property benefit, or by other means of property damage, shall be punished by a prison of up to three months and up to ten years. The next question - there is no justification for the construction of small hydropower plants, as small amounts of electricity are obtained from them, and rivers are destroyed, according to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The construction of a large number of small hydropower plants on the rivers of the Old Mountain, the rivers of the bathing area, the Mlavi near Zagutica and other lush flows across Serbia, could endanger not only rivers in these protected pearls of nature and the living world, but also leave catastrophic consequences for people and the environment, according to experts, the environment ministry agrees. Recently, Minister Goran Trivan also said that small hydropower plants have devastated the environments and destroy biodiversity in the environments where they are created. It announces it will launch a law amending that allows small hydropower plants to be built in protected environments. The execution of small hydropower plants was warned by the public by deans of forest, biological, mining, geological and geographical colleges, the University of Belgrade and the director of the Institute of Biological Research. If all 856 buildings were built, up to 3.5% of the required electricity would be provided on an annual basis, but at the same time the most valuable mountain-mounted area and the waters of Serbia would be destroyed. So I ask questions to the following institutions: The Ministry of Protection – have environmental impact studies been done, related to obtaining consent to these facilities and has the Ministry given consent to them? The Ministry of Agriculture, the Water Directorate – is it also on what basis does it give a water economy agreement to build these facilities? The Ministry of Energy – is the green dinar charged to every household through an electricity bill, the source of the subsidisation of privileged producers, which means that citizens themselves pay for the subsidized producers and pay for the devasting of Serbia's waters themselves? Did they issue positive opinions on the construction of small hydropower plants to the public company "Serbia" and HMZS and the Nature Protection Institute? Mr. Safet Pavlovic, is it true that one of the investors of the small hydropower plants "Ribara" near Žaguica is his company, "Deks Company"? One more question about water.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46842	For the next time, colleague. The word has a National MP, a colleague, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46843	Thank you. My first question goes to the president of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and that is, when will the president of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, tell us what his policy is about KIM? In fact, he said on the board a few weeks ago that the people did not want what he was offering and that his policy had been defeated. I must say, it was not clear until the end what he was offering, nor on what basis he saw that the people would not. Marko Djuric mentioned the issues of status and territory at the Belgrade Security Forum the other day, and suggested exchange of territory. My question at the same time was why elections were being made to withdraw recognition of Kosovo's independence, and at the same time the idea of exchanging territory when we know that the exchange of territory implies statehood, because borders and territories are country-specific. My further question is, did President Vukic instruct the head of the KIM Office, Mark Đurić, to place such a high-ranking place as a test balloon toss this topic of exchange of territory. My second question goes to the Ministry of Interior, Mr Stefanovic, and it is related to security both in Belgrade and Serbia. My question is that the interior minister and the MUP are even planning to take action to increase security. Here, and there was a shooting last night, and that's what the media reported that the shooting was near the children's playroom. We're witnessing that here in our city, cars are flying into the air with people, mobs are being liquidated, and I have to say that beating up these ordinary passersbys is becoming a daily phenomenon. So, what does Mr. Minister and the MUP think they are doing to improve security in Belgrade and Serbia? The third issue goes to Prime Minister Brnabic and Minister of Industry and that concerns the textile industry, is it possible that in a country that had an impeccable textile industry like Serbia, today the government must bring Turkish investors in to hire women and men to only sew for them. I stress that neck, because there is neither the creation nor the selection of materials, nor the choice of models, and on the other hand we have very many entrepreneurs who are ready and who are small and medium entrepreneurs and who are involved in the textile industry and textiles. These people do not have any incentive funds unlike Turkish investors, and Turkey is a power in textiles and turns out to be Turkey brought here to shut down and completely stifle Serbia's textiles industry. My question is, why is this done in Serbia and why are those funds given to foreign investors in textiles not given to domestic entrepreneurs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46844	Thank you. The word has a colleague, Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46845	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to refer my question to Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister and the chairman of the Creative Industry Council. I must begin by commending a fact that is truly commendable, which is that over a billion dinars have been invested in Serbian film this year. This is certainly commendable and this represents the way for our cinema to return to the pathways of the old glory of Yugoslav film. The first feature of this film was the ban on movies, which is an important part of the tradition of our film, which is something that our films are famous for. Among other things, the awards at individual film festivals in our country bear names by directors, whose films were banned, including Zivojin Pavlovic. Speaking of the film "Mezica", which raised public attention and dust, about a month ago, Culture and Information Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic said there are no bans, because it is a ban on legal decree. However, in the old Yugoslavia, only one film, "The City", since 1963, has been banned. The writers were Kokan Vlakonjac, Marko Babac and already mentioned Zivojin Pavlovic. However, it was in Sarajevo, which means that no film was ever banned in Serbia. The fact that there is no decree for the film "Mezica", does not mean that it is prohibited, because it is not necessary, among other things, to talk about the documentary "No Forbidden without Forbidden", Milan Nikodjevic and Dinko Tucakovic. All in all, we're back to tradition and that's good. The problem is that there is another tradition, which is to provide services to foreign productions, which this country insists on. In recent years, we want major productions to come to Serbia, to make films here, but the fact is that large productions are owned by large companies and corporations. My question for Mrs. Brnabic is: - Can large companies and corporations allow themselves to make films in a country where films are banned? Film stars, today they're involved humanitarianally, they're dealing with human rights, and how are such stars going to agree to film in our country, knowing there's a ban here? The world has changed, but it seems that the ruling structure in our country has not yet understood it. We are buzzing in front of foreigners, including actress Aglai Terrace, who was supposed to play in the film "Mezica", who played in the film "Led", which saw over 120,000 viewers in Serbia. Imagine now, when they interview her in Russia, which is a strategically important country for us and when she has to explain why she refused a very large film in Russia to make a movie in Serbia. It's catastrophic by the image of our country. It's so bad, it's worse than anything a movie could make, that it would be made in Serbia at all. The screenwriter Dimitria Vojinov has put his contentious script on the Internet and anyone who is well-intentioned and who can read will realize that there is nothing anti-Serb or anti-state in this film. It's a classic genre film, a thriller worth looking at, and it's a shame we won't look at it for now. My question for Mrs. Brnabic is: - How and does the Republic of Serbia intend to correct this mistake, due to complex legal interference, given the potential catastrophic consequences in the film industry, since we intend to impose ourselves, as a leading country in the region in the field of film production? The second question is: - Did the censors consider all the circumstances before they decided to ban this film at all? We also expect this decision to be adapted to the modern world, because it is unsustainable and I wonder how this will be realized? The tradition of banning must certainly be adapted, we can't exactly rebuild all the traditions and have to modernize a little. It is, however, to globalisation and to these European standards that will eliminate all these beautiful things, such as banning movies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46846	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46847	I thank the chairman. The first question, in front of the centre movement's parliamentary group, is that we refer to the finance minister, and it concerns excise duties on oil derivatives. We are interested in whether the planned reduction of excise duties on petroleum products, since those in the retail price are between 53% and 55%, since the price of oil derivatives has increased by as much as 22% over the past year, that fuel is the most expensive in the region, that this increase in the price of oil derivatives of 22% over the past year is much, much more than a real percentage of growth, real growth, and a stable, relatively stable exchange rate of the euro and a strong dinar, which is also an increase in euro, which significantly hits citizens' budgets and economy budgets? Excises under the Excise Act can be reduced to 20%, so we are interested in why, after the end of fiscal consolidation and the financial results, which have been praised by the Government, which, here, have abolished the Law on the temporary way of calculating pensions and ceased pensions to be reduced, why is the legal possibility of a price bump, an external price impact from the world-wide oil market not amortised by the correction of excises, in order to prevent the continued increase in the price of oil derivatives on the domestic market? Sub-question, can the state at least give up fiscal income based on VAT that accounts for these excise duties? We suggested a model, which would be amortised by introducing a steppe excise which, if oil derivatives prices were to rise, would be reduced to calm down the impact on oil derivatives prices. And the question is, is it at least planned to release the excise on fuel, some endangered social categories, like people with disabilities, when we already know, let's say diplomats can buy fuel without excise duty, pay 70 and something, instead of 170 and some liters of oil derivatives? The second question, we refer to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, we are interested in what is the median of monthly earnings in Serbia per month in 2018? To clarify, therefore, we are not interested in the average earnings of the media, that is the statistical data and that is the amount of earnings that half the population in Serbia has, because, according to January of this year, 50% of the adult population in Serbia has incomes of less than 213 euros. Incomes above 444 euros have only 27% of the population. So, we are talking about a 200-euro magical salary, which is an unattainable amount for the second-hand population of Serbia. If we boast about the average earnings of 450 euros, then that means only one thing, which is that we have one small minority with extremely large incomes, which is why we have a distorted statistical picture and distribution of earnings, where one quarter of our employees earns just over 450 euros and half less than 213 euros. In that sense, we are interested in the Republic Statistics Service providing us with data on the media, because we believe that the average income data, given the distorted distribution of income in this society, is completely, completely insignificant. Again, insignificant because of the fact that the average salary is as large as our average salary is because we have a small, small number of Serbian citizens who have extremely large incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46848	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46849	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is helping God to help everyone. I would like to ask very specific questions, the government's competent minister and local self-government, Branko Ruzic, as regards the emerging local elections in Serbia, around which there is a major and significant controversy. According to the calendar of local elections to be held until the general local elections, in the spring of 2020, there are only two municipalities where elections should be held. One municipality of Luciani, where elections are due to be held by the end of this year, as the four-year term for SO Luciani expires in December and the second municipality of Medvedja, which is due to hold local elections in September 2019. So, at this point, there is no calendar of local elections for any other city, or municipality where local elections should be held before the united local elections in the spring of 2020. My question for the minister is very specific. One - when local elections will be held in the Municipality of Luciani, why can't we know the term of these elections and what is and how is it manipulated about all this? Two -- is the exact information I came up with that the Serbian Progressive Party is considering artificially challenging local elections in at least three other municipalities, which will be called in the same time as the elections for the Luciani municipality? It is thought, first of all, of the municipalities of the Tower, Kladov and Doljevac. Here, my colleague Vladimir Orlic suggests that they plan at least two other municipalities, in which, parallel with the municipality of Luciani, they would call elections by the end of this year or early next year. Where did this election come from? Will they be unlawfully and artificially chosen? Are these municipalities where there are no local media and there are no conditions for regular elections? Whether the Serbian Progressive Party wants to hide what awaits them in the Luciani municipality, which is one serious one, to say the challenge electoral, because the Alliance for Serbia first appears in one election, right in the Luciani municipality and there we have one situation to see if there are more fair and fair local elections in Serbia at all. And why are they challenging, if that's the plan, artificially, against the law, local elections elsewhere? Would it draw attention from what the SNS and SPS authorities have done for the past four years in the Luciani municipality? And here we see, and this is my question also for the Minister of State Administration and the Local Self-Government, why are not the following pre-election promises being fulfilled: why is the basic court in Guac not restored, and it was a pre-election promise of the SNS; why has not a thousand new jobs been opened, as promised by the SPS and SNS; why are the roads of the municipality order in Dragac; why has the sports hall in Luciani not been completed, and that was also a pre-election promise; why has there been virtually no investment in the village and agriculture and why has not been reconstructed and restored to the pool in Luciani, which was also a local pre-election promise? So what's been going on for the last four years? All the time there was only a fight between SNS politicians from Gornja and Donja Dragačev, specifically between Slobodan Jolovic, the largest political flyover of Dragačev and Rados Milovanovic, director of the "Milan Blagojevic" Task Force Industry from Lucan and practically blocked work and life in Dragačev, due to the clash between the two leading SNS politicians. The consequences are severe. The municipality fell to below 20,000 inhabitants. In four years, two thousand people have moved from the municipality of Luciani and if it continues like this, in a few years Dragacevo will have zero inhabitants. An example of your government is just renovating the road between Lucian and Guca, which you can now come between Lucian and Guca in an hour, because you can't renovate that road for months, as well as that chacan viaduct that has been late for months. Not to say that nothing has been done for young people or for the village and agriculture, there are no new jobs, nor is the office for agriculture and economy functioning, without talking about the tragedy of raspberries and other farmers, especially those who produce strawberry... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46850	Comrade Obradic, ask the final question. You don't have to make an election campaign here in the Assembly for the upcoming local elections. You can have some discussion, if you're skilled enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46851	How can I tell you, Mr. Chairman, I've been the First People's MP since I remember in this assembly, for these two and a half years, who has been interrupted during the asking of parliamentary questions. I really congratulate you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46852	You may have been in something first by now, but you're not in this, so be assured.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46853	Thank you very much. I think I've had a number of specific questions, but I also have a few more very specific questions. The first is to deliver all the financial results of the trumpet parliament's operations in Guca in the last four years, during the Serbian Progressive Party's authority. Secondly, to answer my question, why was there a conflict with the host association in Guca? Third, to answer my question what is the Municipality of Luciani doing in support of the birth of young couples? Will the dedicated industry "Milan Blagojevic" in Luciani be privatised, will a large part of the workers be fired and will their salaries be cut due to the privatisation that SNS leads them to under the new Law on Privatisation of the Dedicated Industry in Serbia? Is this concrete and can the citizens of Luciana expect that the largest factory in this region, the dedicated industry in Luciani, will be privatised by the SNS, as the PKK and RTB Bor, will be sold to the Arabs and will the workers there lose their jobs and their salaries be reduced?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46854	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46855	Thank you. Yesterday, 26 years of crime in the North, when 16 people, citizens of this country, were tortured, kidnapped and killed, only because they were Bosniaks. Many details of this crime are well known to the public. We know that they were abducted from the bus on the regular Rudo – Priboj line, we know that after the legislation of all passengers, they were brought only by Bosniaks, 15 men and one woman, that they were taken by truck towards Visegrad, to a motel called "Vile Hairs", where they were searched, tortured, and then brutally killed on the banks of the Drina River. Many things about this crime are known today, however, we and the public still don't know who the employers are, the inspirers of this crime. We don't even know where our murdered countrymen are, and while their families, besides the remains, are searching for justice, we don't know why these victims and their families haven't been granted the status of civilian war victims. So again I ask the question this time as President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic to answer me, as well as the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office - why have these people not yet obtained the status of civilian victims of war? Members of the victims' families have launched administrative procedures to obtain this status, but all their demands have been rejected. In 2007, they filed suit against the Republic of Serbia for its logistical and financial support to the Bosnian Serb military and paramilitary units, as well as for the failure of the authorities to protect their citizens at the state border that the kidnappers crossed with a truck full of kidnapped people. Such behaviours by the state and its courts towards the missing and murdered Bosniaks and their families are very difficult and serious messages for all and for the entire Bosniak people living in the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister for an explanation as to why the Government of the Action Plan for Chapters 23 and 24 has ruled out the obligation to shed light on these crimes. Ana Brnabic was also the minister at the time at the head of the ministry who, despite our demands, kicked these demands and these issues out of the Action Plan. In addition to the abduction victims in Severin, we are still awaiting justice for the abduction victims in Strpci, the shelling of the Bosniak village of Kukurovici by the Užic Corps and other crimes in Sandzak that had Bosniaks, citizens of this country as victims. So these are the people who were victims of organised military-police and paramilitary structures in Serbia. Today, Serbia is on paper as a candidate for EU membership. We are struggling for the country to finally become a democratic country based on the rule of law, on justice and on equality for all its citizens. However, there is no sign of justice and equality today, and we live today in a country where crimes and criminals are glorified, and justice and the righteous are persecuted. Let us ask ourselves, what is the future of a country with such a state of mind? What is the future of Bosniaks in Serbia if these recent crimes remain unsolved? What confidence in the state and state bodies and institutions can we talk about if these authorities and institutions break the most, mock and live up to the law both on victims and on justice, and the government at the same time says that the resolution and lighting of these crimes has no place in the Action Plan? Does anyone think this is a way to restore trust in the state and state bodies? I don't think so and that's why it's important for me to answer these questions and get an explanation within the legal time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46856	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Alexander Jerkov's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46857	Thank you, colleague Arsic. My first question was to the Minister of Health, Zlatibor Loncar, as well as to the Public Prosecutor's Office, who I deeply believe is responsible for what I'm about to ask. On November 19th of this year, just a few days ago, the public shook up the information published by our citizen Violeta Cvetkovic, who in the video she posted claimed that her sick child had refused to examine. After that, he followed a war of information between doctors, the home of health concerned, and Violete Cvetkovic himself. But what my question is about is what happened the next day of November 20, 2018, when informationer's medical records appeared in the tabloid, when she wrote the date on which she performed the abortion, when her file was published, when it was written that she was in sect, that she had been convicted earlier, and that she was likely with a desire that readers of this regime's tabloid turn away from believing anything she wrote, claimed that she had performed an abortion on Christmas Day. My question to the D.A. is as far as the investigation has arrived to determine whether the data that per citizen Violetta Cvetkovic has been released correctly in the regime's information board? If this information is correct, the person who informed the Informer, tipped off, or allowed it to come into possession of her medical records has committed a serious crime. My question to Zlatibor Lonachar is what did he do on this matter? What is he going to do about the fact that a regimeal tabloid is stalking one of our fellow citizens in this way? Is he aware of the damage to that woman? How much of that danger has she been brought into? My question is what has the Ministry of Health done about the fact that particularly sensitive data on one of our fellow citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been found in the regime's "Informer" tabloid, which, in its practice, tramples over everything and anyone who criticises anything in this country, did not hesitate to do even such a scandalous thing? My second question was addressed to the president of the Republic of Serbia. He said, two days ago, visiting the King's textile factory in the city of Arani, with what I would say is a quack mangupic smile, the next sentence to the director of the factory, along with naturally misogenous remarks about how the Turks should guard our women and take care of them. I quote the president of the Republic of Serbia: “You took all women to work, so you are happy, you think you will... Hey. “ My question to the president of the Republic of Serbia is, could he finish this sentence? Could he explain exactly what he meant to say? What he thinks exactly is that the employer, who hired all the women, is expecting from his workers, and although we are already in the same regime's tabloids, we who raised this issue yesterday, I mean the MPs of DS, and named names that I would not repeat here for the dignity of the National Assembly, please forward this question and just ask him to finish the sentence, so that then we women know what to tell him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46858	A colleague of mine, Mirjana Dragaš, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46859	I would like to take advantage of today's opportunity to ask the Prime Minister, Mrs Brnabic, as well as the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, and in fact, the issue concerns inspection supervision, i.e. the implementation of the Law on Inspection, which the Assembly adopted in 2015. We changed it this year. In fact, by passing laws in this Assembly, we have very often evaluated and in fact each time assessed their high quality, importance for the reform of relations in society, importance for reforms in any area of concern, health, economy, agriculture, etc. The laws are largely high and high-quality. When a problem arises, the Assembly is always there to make changes and to supplement the law. In life, however, we often face the fact that the law is not sufficiently implemented or inadequately or that there are other problems that often concern the inspection itself. With the reform of inspection supervision, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as well as us, we have set up a system so that it has a system of inspection services, decorated in a modern manner, as is regulated in the EU countries and other countries of the modern world. An entity was introduced, a new term was introduced as a "trust entity", and a total of modern inspection systems are actually based on a risk assessment, unlike the previous approach, so on. 100% or total control. This approach, of course new, we support it, or we approve it. However, since our society is located, we can say in transition, that is, many areas are experiencing completely new reforms, a new approach to business, etc., there is also a need for classical inspection supervision. We saw this in the debate, for example, the Law of the Environment, then sanitary inspections, labour inspections, construction, health, agriculture, etc., almost no living area in which this topic is not present. The inadequate, or insufficient number of inspectors on the ground, and the insufficient application of this previous newly introduced system, we actually have insufficient coverage of this area of surveillance and therefore insufficient or inadequate law enforcement. That is why it is my question – How to ensure better and more efficiency in law enforcement, better efficiency, better and more efficiency of control, that is, inspection control itself, and thus greater quality, functionality in law enforcement. At the same time, it can be asked in this area and the question – Could, for example, in future budget planning, be considered and decided that, independently of the restrictions on the number of employees in the state bodies, in an appropriate manner and in a large number of inspectors in particularly sensitive areas and categories of work, such as the health of the population, agriculture, ecology, etc. When it comes to the budget, the question can also be asked whether, in certain areas, in each of these laws, not only in this ministry or not, by the government's decision, the Prime Minister, or each ministry individually, is to consider the possibility of strengthening supervision and the work of inspection services. In fact, they would ensure that the very functionality of the law is largely implemented and that more efficiency and quality of life and the health of the population, thus ensuring not only that repressive measure in law enforcement, but also that one educational one, because they would in turn provide one and the other system with more responsibility for all economic operators in law enforcement and their quality of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46860	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46861	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the sake of honor and cheek not only of the Serbian state, but of the judicial authorities, I am obliged to ask the following question, and it concerns the Ministry of Justice, is it true that because of the serious crimes committed on behalf of the Serbian people, so-called. Cases, and I'm saying that there are serious crimes in the North and Strpec, that the guilty are brought to justice? Is that true or not? I'm also saying they should have been brought to justice. The best way for the Serbian people would be if they hadn't done it and never again would such crimes be committed. Is it true that representatives of the Serbian state and Serbian political parties always said they were serious crimes? My second question is whether it is true that cases of "the Tuzlan Colony", that cases of "Dobrovoljačka", in which soldiers were killed in withdrawing under agreements, in which the International Community or military mission participated, that these cases, in these also serious crimes committed against the Serb people, according to young Serbian soldiers, never in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor outside BiH, remind me, of the case of Ejup Ganic, etc. They've never been processed? Do we have more or less valuable victims in the civil war which, in my opinion, is caused more from the outside than from the inside, because it is not difficult to separate the Balkan peoples, but it always needs an outsider? Is it even true that in Podrinj you can't count on the fingers, and I don't think anyone's been punished, in Srebrenica, around Srebrenica for 3,267 people, that no one has ever been responsible for the severed heads that those Mehmedovics carried around Srebrenica, that no one has ever been punished for crimes in Podrinj, and these are thousands of Serb victims? In doing so, I am sorry to have to count the victims nationally, I am not, it is done by the International Community, by the judiciary in BiH, so it is not a crime against Serbs, and it is not a crime. Is it even true that the protagonists of this crime were celebrated as heroes in BiH? Not only were they not punished, but the Bosniaks, and some of ours, celebrated them as heroes. This is a Serbian actor's T-shirt, a Jova Divjak T-shirt, a participant in a crime against Serb soldiers in Dobrovoljak, who withdrew under the agreement and agreement, which had not only two armies, but was also Uznofort, or what was called the international mission. Is this exactly what I'm asking? Once again, I must say I feel sorry for all the victims, even more for those of the Serbian hand. But I would also like someone in the BiH Assembly to express regret once in this same way for the crimes that happened unequivocally and were not punished. Victims have the right to equality, have the right to justice, that the perpetrators of crime, wherever they were from, will be punished in the same way. My next question is about the Lucian elections. Did Bosko Obradovic base his optimism on the estimates of Djordja Vukadinovic? If he questioned who would win the Lucians, then I believe they've already won by 105%. He usually multiplys it by one 10 times as much as I remember. And in a situation like this, I'm sorry my colleagues from the SNS, you haven't crossed the censorship. In this regard, I ask the authorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance or the one who controls "Lutrija Serbia", is it true that one year during the rule of the former party, "Lutrija" was minus, so, annually, that year, it was minus? Is it true that from "Lutrija Serbia" for research, the new Serbian political thought of Djordje Vukadinovic received 2,400,000 dinars, for research, I think, are you satisfied with your life?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46862	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46863	Dearly respected Serbian citizens, I will refer my questions to the interior ministry, justice ministers and the public prosecutor's office. I ask the first question, and it is very important and important for all citizens of Serbia, it is about the threats addressed to the president of the Republic of Serbia and the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. Such an act simply deserves processing and deserves citizens to know why and how and under what conditions someone is allowed to threaten hanging in Belgrade, in Theasias, the president of the Republic of Serbia, the president who has received the support of his citizens and who is at the post precisely thanks to his citizens. I ask the second question, also, the MUP, the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office, and it is about Zeljko Veseinovic and the threats of rape by the prime minister, threats that are known to everyone and that are not only for Zeljko Veseinovic but also for their alliance and the first mentioned in the first question is also a member of the alliance. We expect the state to do its job and that those who threaten to rape the prime minister will be rewarded in accordance with the law. The third issue is also the MUP, the Justice Ministry, and also the Prosecutor's Office, related to the mayor of the town of Sapca Nebojsa Zelenovic, also one of the founders of the Alliance for Serbia. There is no one in that alliance who does not threaten, blackmails, buys votes, and does not deceive citizens. The issue of the mayor of Zapac is, above all, a question for 72 apartments, which are simply missing on the location of the DRI and which exist in Šapec. To whom were they divided, how were they divided, and who had the right to divide 72 apartments without having a single dinar of income from those 72 apartments in the budget? Have them question the state authorities. According to the same mayor, the following issue has been addressed, and it is related to fivem euros. An appeal to the Supreme Court at the Court's verdict, sent two months ago, and has not yet received an answer. Citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Sapca expect an answer – where is it and when will it be answered how much and who is right to abuse 5m euros? The issue directly to the Prosecutor's Office and the MUP – why and when will those who have spent those five million euros be processed, together with Nebojsa Zelenovic, and it is known that public procurement has been conducted without any paper, without any documentation, that millions of amounts have been transferred to private companies' accounts? When will the MUP determine who it is, what are these companies and who spent those funds? The next issue is also related to one of the founders of the Union for Serbia, which has been buying votes since 2016, it is Nebojsa Zelenovic, the mayor who bought votes for the local and republican elections in 2016. His activist Vesenovic admitted it in the main public prosecutor's office. My question is when will the task force be processed, and that is Nebojsa Zelenovic? Whoever buys the votes has to answer for it. The next issue is addressed to the finance ministry, and the issue is also related to the city's budget. Since 2016, not a single person employed in the city administration and public enterprises of the town of Sapca has been employed in accordance with legal procedures, nor has a single person been employed in accordance with the law. Only those who brought in 50 or 100 safe votes for Nebojsa Zelenovic are employed. It is also an object that must see the light of day and which must get an answer. For 100 safe votes, work was obtained indefinitely, for 50 safe votes for Nebojsa Zelenovic and Dusan Petrovic for a certain time, with no single employment in 2016 in line with the law. We expect the Ministry of Finance to respond to the amounts and when will those who gave the order for employment, which was not in accordance with the law, be punished? To the end of the question – when will Mayor Zelenovic be responsible for threats to committees and media who do not think the same as Nebojsa Zelenovic and the Alliance for Serbia, when will the Alliance for Serbia simply be prosecuted according to all the threats, blackmails and lies they have been saying since they were founded?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46864	I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dusko Tarbuk, Dr Zarko Obradovic, Djordje Milicevic and Gordana Comic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF BUDGETING PRODUCTS. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the occasion of the search in particular on the 1st item of the Agenda of the Law on Construction Products, the members of Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Aleksandra Damjanović, Miodrag Poledica, Imre Kern and Zoran Lakić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Jovanka Atanakovic, Đorđe Milić and Zoran Ilic, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, and Bozana Lukić, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jolovich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46865	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable Minister with Associates, in Article 1. The draft law on construction products is added to Article 2 which reads – This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to even development. The proposed amendment aims to highlight equal development, as Serbia's path to joining the EU implies, in addition to many other reform procedures, and to prepare for opportunities and demands for a competitive common market, and this requires great commitment to the quality of products and services. Establishing a national infrastructure system, quality has a multiple goal. First of all, it is a prerequisite for the free flow of goods and the removal of technical barriers in trade, and is the main indicator of the placing of a safe product on the market and represents a structure that has a direct impact on innovation and competitiveness and is a prerequisite for access to international markets and is an indicator of the extent to which consumers are protected, and support is in general in economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46866	Thanks, buddy. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46867	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Business Forum of Serbia-Bulgaria was held in Nis this year, attended by the Deputy Prime Minister, who took the opportunity to invite Bulgarian companies to participate in infrastructure projects in Serbia and to work together with companies from Serbia to modernise the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway and the Nis-Pristina highway. The governments of Serbia and Bulgaria will seek to improve co-operation and bring foreign trade to as much as three and a half billion euros. On the success of co-operation, we can be an example of countries in the region. Of course, the Nis-Medare-Pristina highway is a good opportunity for co-operation. Infrastructure projects are important for Serbia and Bulgaria, the completion of the eastern arms of Corridor 10, the Niš-Dimitrovgrad pipeline, as well as the modernisation of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway. There were about 90 companies from Serbia and about 40 companies from Bulgaria at the business forum. This is a concrete example of our country's international co-operation with the surrounding countries. This creates international agreements that make Serbia more modern, more orderly and advanced in terms of meeting high standards. Some 30 international agreements have been implemented so far from the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure which result in a serious infrastructure development in our country. This bill is precisely in the area of construction products that will affect our country's ability to meet world standards and quality, but this will also affect competitiveness, i.e. raise the competitiveness of domestic products in foreign markets. In this way, the economy in the area of construction will also reach a high level of development. Therefore, the adoption of this law is necessary, as many issues from this area will be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46868	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Martinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Reverend Mrs Mihajlovic, your Ministry has made a significant contribution to the economic development of the Republic of Serbia on a number of basis. First of all, the number of building permits issued since the introduction of the electronic system has increased by almost 142%. In 2014, the Republic of Serbia was the world's 182nd state by the number of building permits issued, and in 2018 we became a country that is the world's 10th World Bank's "Duing Business List" by the number of building permits issued. I think that in itself says how far it went for you, of course, along with your colleagues from the government and in cooperation with the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic to revive the construction industry in Serbia, to employ our construction operation and thus contribute to the overall economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Your Ministry, of course, played an important role in attracting investment, and I would like to point out in particular that over the last four years investments have been recorded in certain municipalities where none of the state officials have been since Tito's time, such as Krupnje, such as Vlad's Han, Leban, Žitoraj. These are now all municipalities where new factories, new plants, new companies where people work and where they can support themselves and their family members from their salaries. What is also important to highlight, and it would not be possible without the reforms implemented by your ministry, is and the fact that Serbia has managed to attract the most direct foreign investment from all countries in the region in the last four years, and therefore we are absolutely the leader in the Western Balkans region. In the last four years, close to a hundred new factories have been opened in Serbia. We are third in Europe after the GDP split, and for the third year in a row we record a surplus in the budget. These are extraordinary results. This says that Serbia is on the right track and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that your Ministry, that the President of the Republic of Serbia is leading a wise and responsible policy that takes care absolutely of every part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Later in my presentations, I will point out how much investment has gone to KIM as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. I think that this way, in the most effective way possible, we will deny those who are trying to you personally and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to honor that you have done something that is at the expense of the Serbian state when it comes to KIM. What I want to say at the end of this presentation today is that you will have support for all the laws you have proposed. I think these laws are another step forward in reforming urban, construction and spatial planning. As for these diabolical comments on the account of Alexander Vukic, we talked about it yesterday. Alexander Vukic treats women with the utmost respect. He said and asked for a Turkish investor in the King and thanked him for employing 2,500 thousand citizens of kings and the environment in the Kingdom. So 2,500 citizens. This is not a small number at all, given the fact that the King's economically devastation is a city in the period from 2008 to 2012, and before that it was. He thanked the Turkish investor for hiring not only young women from the age of 20, 25, but also women who, according to all statistics, are harder to get a job. So, according to one colleague, Aleksandar Vucic, he did not half-mangupa and Sheretically address the chairman of the Turkish company's board of directors, but pointed out what the whole of Serbia knows, only they will not admit it, and that is that it is very difficult for a woman to find a job in Serbia today if she is between 40 and 50 years old. Why? Well, because everyone's looking for a relatively young workforce. It's hard to hire men 50, 55. Also, it's hard to hire a woman. The Turkish investor has taken the obligation to hire, and has himself said he will hire women between the ages of 40 and 50. And Alexander Wolfie only thanked him for that. After that, in the absence of other arguments, what came next? I read it yesterday on social media. Salva of the worst possible insults at the expense of Alexander Vukic, SNS and all of us who support him. He's an asshole, and he's a man who hates women, and he got off the cheerleading pole, and he was released from the cage. Ask God what they did not write for a man who allowed a 35m - euro investment to come to the Kingdom and employ 2,500 people in the Kingdom. And it just shows what they can do. They can hate, they can insult and what they've shown, it's that at a time their authorities are able to get rich and Serbian citizens are left without jobs. You, Mrs. Mihajlovic, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandra Vukic, have shown that Serbia can be managed in a completely different way, that it can be taken care of all parts of the Republic of Serbia, including KIM, and that it is especially necessary to invest in those municipalities that are extremely underdeveloped, such as those I have just listed, in which none of the state's leaders have been for decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46870	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46871	I have to admit that when yesterday we listened to what was written against the government, first of all against the president because he opens up, or he sets up a cornerstone for a new company, where he's going to be employed, or he's opening up a new company where he's going to be employed primarily by a woman, and at that age, when it's not easy to get to work and women know it well, I have to admit that I didn't believe first, and secondly I think it's really schizophrenic of those who do it. So it really is for every conviction of such behaviour, but I think it says it first of all about those who act like it and write it like that, because it's not just a matter of criticism, so it's, first of all, very ugly words spoken against those who bring the job. And I think that we should all condemn it and even think that the parties behind it should condemn such behaviour and such hate speech, especially when we talk about women who are far less busy than men and for whom it is simply not easy to find and create conditions to appear in Serbia's social, political and economic life. So I just had to react, too. And what you said, I think it's also important, speaking of this law, you mentioned, among other things, the issue of building permits. It's often heard from opposition MPs in parliament that nothing has been done in the area of issuing building permits, but I think that, I asked, this chart says everything, I'd like to see it. So here you see, first, in 2008, where we were 149, so, for example, 184, then 186. Oh, look, we're 10th in the world. It's not just a reflection of change in construction, it's a reflection of change in the entire economy. So, and new factories, fiscal consolidation, all together, gave us the opportunity to be leading on all the world's lists. So as much as we talk against both the government and the president, I think it's important data, what citizens see.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46872	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46873	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, fellow MPs, honourable citizens, I have submitted this amendment to define this legislative provision more precisely, and all in my desire to point out the impact of this law on the improvement of international co-operation. The Construction Products Act establishes a national quality system for construction products that will form the basis for the free flow of goods on the international market, as well as the removal of a number of technical barriers in international trade. I expect this law will help us to establish the highest standards in the area of construction according to the reputation of the world's most developed countries. By passing this law, only one more of the government's numerous activities bringing Serbia closer to the world's most successful countries. I wish I could say that 2010, 2011, 2012 in Serbia the construction operation was powerful, export-oriented, but unfortunately I can't. Royal construction giants, such as "Cablara" and "Keramika" have worked around the world for decades before, starting with Europe, through Libya, Iraq, Iran, and across Asia and Africa, but at this point they are like many other construction companies, as well as the entire economy of our Serbia. Serbia was one step towards the ambis in 2010, 2011, 2012. Today, Serbia is a country of construction and no more roads, factories, health facilities, schools, playgrounds have ever been built in Serbia's recent history. The construction operation is slowly on its feet and I hope that soon, thanks to this law, it will be easier and faster to enter the international market when it is much more open to all businesses coming from Serbia. Today, Serbia is thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, who has taken responsibility and made difficult decisions, respected, respected and welcomed everywhere in the world, and we from the SNS are particularly proud of it. His personal relations and diplomatic efforts make Serbia important and changes politics towards our country. His personal engagement in the King opened two new factories, "Leoni" and "Tyger". In the coming period, these factories will employ over 5,000 people, more than 5,000 citizens and citizens, and thank him for that, and thank him for getting the opportunity to work in this way for more than 40 and 50 years, when I say citizens in particular, because they are so-called at this point. a highly employable category of population. Regardless of what the opposition has been trying to do in the last few days, I am sure that with citizens and citizens, it will not reduce the slightest importance of opening such a large two investments to a completely devastated city like King's in 2012. Thank him on behalf of all the citizens of the Royals, especially for giving them a better life. Responsible economic policy, peace policy, stability and co-operation with all countries of the world, and in particular with the countries of the EU, China, the Russian Federation, America, led by SNS headed by Alexander Vukic, has made Serbia a prominent country in the world. I am sure that the law on the agenda will further facilitate Serbia's construction industry's international trade, which will further improve international co-operation. That's exactly why I submitted this amendment. This is indeed an extremely important law that will certainly affect the economy and international position of Serbia despite the opposition's disputation of individual representatives, especially Eurosceptics. It is very important that this law regulates a system that is comparable to the international construction control system. Therefore, Madam Minister, the Serbian government has the full support of the SNS parliamentary group to seek to imitate legislation with international standards, in order to allow the smooth growth and development of life in Serbia and the better life of our citizens. There's one more thing I need to get under, so-called. The opposition to this parliament cannot and will never succeed in their spinning to influence citizens' awareness that they forget what they were doing before that 2012, and what Serbia today is in 2018, thanks to SNS headed by Aleksandra Vukic. I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of my amendment, and we will certainly give support to your other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46874	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. Here's my colleague Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46875	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Proposal for a law on construction products. I must point out that this is a brand-new bill governing the conditions for placing on the market and making available on the construction product market. In Article 1 The bill provides for a declaration of performance and a sign of conformity on construction products. Obligation of business entities to technical regulations for construction products and Serbian specific specifications, simplified procedures. The most important reason for the adoption of the draft law on construction products is the need to regulate the placing on the market of construction products by general regulation, which has not been done so far. Another important reason for the adoption of this law is the fulfilment of the obligations and harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU regulations, set out in negotiating Chapter 1-free movement of goods. Given that EU rules in this area are regularly changing and supplementing the path of the Republic of Serbia towards joining the EU, it implies in addition to many other reform processes and preparations for opportunities and requirements of a competitive common market. Dear Minister, I would like to express my gratitude that most of the shares of the Serbian House-Levosoje, in Corridor 10, have been released for traffic, and thus have been slowly brought to the attention of the construction of this section, which will mean a great deal for the economic development of the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, as well as the promises made by the Serbian government and the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, are being fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46876	Thank you, colleague Mitrovica. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. Here's my colleague Bulatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46877	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues, on the proposal for a law on construction products, I submit an amendment to Article 1 in the sense of adding a new position that is read – this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on investment in the economy. The fact is that the Serbian government today is significantly more separate for southern Serbia. Thanks to SNS policy and its President Alexander Vukic, Vranje and the Pcinj County have never had more support from the state at all. Perhaps the best evidence of this support and preserved production in Simpo and Jumko companies, where over 4,000 workers work today. In 2014, before Alexander Vukic arrived as Prime Minister, the workers of the Jumko were on strike, on the highway, without work, without profit and without hope. The situation is much better today. Jumko has arranged jobs by the end of this year and the following 2019. Products for military and police systems Italy, Finland, Germany and other countries. Jumko also opened new plants in Bujanovac, Crno Trava and Despotovac, and plans to open the plant in Prokuplje and some other places. In addition, the prime minister opened a ballistics drive in Vranj this year that represents a major developmental opportunity for Jumko, and in which the economy ministry has invested over half a million euros. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Defence adopted the Protection Ballistics Programme and Yumko slowly became part of our country's defence system. On the other hand, there are about 2,300 workers in Simp, in its factories in Vranj, Bujanovac, Presevo and Surdulica, and preparations are under way for reconstruction and refurbishing of equipment in the Zubin Potok factory, where about a hundred more workers should be employed. All this evidence is that today without these two companies is the unimaginable development of Vranja and southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46878	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46879	The respected chairman, respected citizens, respected fellow MPs, respected Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, a law on building materials, as one in a set of laws relating to construction, or planning and construction in Serbia, will certainly improve competitiveness and the situation in the sector at a certain rate. All that is needed for Serbia's position on the map of Europe and the map of the world, related to this ministry, will be taken up at the moment. I will begin my presentation with the information I have to repeat, it is very important and should be repeated, that from a place that we were not only two or three years ago, with 186 places, I repeat from 186 places, on this day of 2018, we came to 10 places per issue of building permits is information that anyone who realistically observes Serbia and wishes well to this Serbia is sufficient to recognise and as a confirmation that this Serbia is going the right way and that this government and this Serbia has a future. What is very important, the standards that will be adopted in this law will just open the door for all companies who want to participate and be competitive, whether they are domestic or foreign. What we have according to this, 36,000 construction sites on today are on the other side of the information that confirms that these building permits and realisations and that projects are working and building, and 36,000 construction sites, you can imagine how many employees there are. Most of these include domestic enterprises and how many employees, and as the construction itself and the results achieved, affecting the national income itself, can be very easy to calculate the Capital Investments which, among other things, are part of this ministry and which are basically both initiated and completed and started in this ministry, are investments that in the past, while the yellow enterprise managed by the Republic of Serbia simply didn't think about, the only thing they did capitalally, they destroyed both the economy and agriculture, infrastructure, health care, the military, not to count, everything they could have ruined. They didn't even know what capital investments were, and highways, clinical centres, kindergartens, schools and everything that is done today confirms that this is the ministry, this government and the president of the Republic of Serbia on the right track. I come also to Capca and what is finally very important for the citizens of Šapac, but also for all of Western Serbia, it is that finally one of the Second World War will start here with the construction of the highway from Ruma to Šapac, from Šapac to Loznica and confirm that everything this government promises, it does, and the promise that the Sabac will finally have the highway will be implemented in action. Not only Shabac, also the highway from Novi Sad to Ruma, which will extend to Sapac, will bring much of Western Serbia closer not only to other parts of Serbia, but to the whole of Europe. I'm going to re-intelligence that with 186 seats per issue of building permits from a few years ago, on today we're 10 places in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46880	Thank you. Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, deputy prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46881	Dear MP, thank you for mentioning a very important, not only highway, but also a fast traffic station. We have also promised to end Corridor 10, so by the end of this year, we will definitely take cars from the north to the south with the eastern and western arms. Then, on Corridor 11 from Obrenovac to Preljina. We also said that we would partially complete the project technical documentation precisely for the highway from Ruma to Šapac, from Šapac to Loznica, a fast traffic station. We think that this is extremely important, Serbia must be rewired both by highways and by fast traffic, and in this regard we are working. Of course, there are also those who are in opposition, who think we don't need highways, which is a complete nonsens, but regardless of their opinion, we'll build roads and how. So next year, so we're working on project technical documentation. What can be expected are discussions about how we will finance the highway from Šapec to Ruma, or a fast traffic station from Šapac to Loznica. We are in talks, among other things, with the state of Azerbaijan and not only with their companies, but primarily with the state and we expect that next year we have in our budget and guarantees for this trip, which is the automatic security that we will start building. Our plan is that somewhere in the other half of next year, work can begin, at least in one part, we expect it to be part of right from Capca to Loznica. So thank you for mentioning this is important for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46882	Thank you. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Tiana Davidovac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46883	I thank the chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with collaborators, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, construction, as one of the most important business branches in our economy, significant contributions to GDP growth, as also suggested by the fact that Serbia is third in Europe for GDP growth, which is 4.9%. An important contribution to this result was, above all, the increase in the number of construction permits issued, the number of sites issued, as well as the accelerated realization of large infrastructure projects. Four years ago, Serbia was second in the construction license issue, which was on average seven to eight years. Today it is the tenth in the world at speed, and today it is expected to be less than seven days on average. Since the electronic system of issuing building permits has been introduced, the number of licenses issued has increased by 142%. In September of the current year, we had over 33,000 construction sites, while in 2012, there were under 500 sites on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It should also be noted that out of a total of 190 countries on the World Bank's list of ease of business, Duing Business List, Serbia took the 43rd position this year. This result shows concrete results of the government's responsible and dedicated work of the Republic of Serbia, but above all President Aleksandr Vukic, as numerous reforms carried out in the past have contributed to stabilising public finances, reducing unemployment below 12%, by opening new jobs, because about 100 new factories have been opened. Then, it should be noted that Serbia has never had a higher reputation in the world, which has also contributed to the fact that Serbia has been a leader in attracting foreign direct investment in the Balkans in the past four years. In voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46884	Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46885	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and when we talk about an increase in investment in the economy, I have to point out some facts, which is that a few years ago we witnessed a destroyed economy and economy, empty state registers and high unemployment rates. However, with SNS coming to power, a responsible, determined and sustainable policy implemented by the president of the state, Mr Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in just a few years our economy has transformed and has begun to grow. So the fact that we have low inflation, the fiscal deficit is eliminated, public debt declines, the banking system is stable, and employment is growing. So there has been an acceleration of economic activity, which will allow for further reforms and an increase in production activities. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, Serbia's activity measured by the rate of real GDP growth, in the second quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, is 4.8%. The most significant growth rates have been achieved in the construction sector 22.9%, the agriculture, forestry and water sector 14.8% and the information and communication sector 5.9%. In 2017, a surplus of the consolidated budget of 1.2% of GDP was achieved. For the first time in ten years, according to the finance ministry, in January-July 2018, a surplus was reached in the state register of 49.1 billion dinars. Public debt fell by 10% in 2017 and over seven months in 2018, so at the end of July 2018 it was 59.6% of GDP, i.e. It was below the 60% Mastricht criteria. Total industrial production increased by 2.7% in January-August 2017 compared to the same period in 2017. The population employment rate is 48.6% and the unemployment rate is 11.9%. Of course, we will not stop at that, and the evidence of this is the daily opening of new factories across Serbia and new jobs. As we know, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know, we are leaders in the region in attracting foreign direct investment. So 55% of foreign direct investment just ends up in Serbia. In the first seven months of 2018, an inflow of 1.4 billion euros was reached, I mean foreign investments. All this has been done so far, and we all have to agree, whether someone liked it or not, that much has been done, will continue, which will also allow for the continuation of structural reforms and the increase of production activity in export-oriented economic activities. So we will be able to continue further improving the environment and conditions for Serbia's even faster economic development. In this context, the proposed laws we are discussing today and in the voting day, we from the SNS, will support all proposals of the law. Another information regarding the town of Nis, the number of unemployed in Nis, in 2018 is more than 30% lower than in 2014. The trend in unemployment will continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46886	Thank you. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46887	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens, we have an extremely important set of laws on the agenda because they affect the functionality of the construction system. I'm sorry that during yesterday, during the debate in particular, we had, in some ways, a demeaning discussion, since some were just interested in whether a direct transmission was going on on RTS, and when they realized it wasn't, they left the O.R. We have continued to work and will be persistent about the discussion, related to the adoption of plans, which will affect Serbia's development in the future. What is in favour of this is that in the first half of 2018, economic growth of 4.9% was recorded, making Serbia very attractive in terms of a successful economy. What is it that affects the development of the economy? It's export and investment. Where are the investment records? In Subotica, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Belgrade, Pancheva, Krusevoc, Kragujevac, Nis, I'm afraid some of the centers would forget. However, what is very important and what is commendable is that you influence the development of rural areas, such as Vladic's Han, Žitoraj, such as Lebane or Krupanj. And what happens after that, when you invest in one of these small environments, the next step is to connect all these parts, is infrastructure, which you work on every day. We are witnessing that over 200km of highways, over 200km of state roads, have been built in Serbia in the last four years, including, of course, the road between Katz and Zrenjanin. And what awaits us in the coming period is the further development of a rapid stock between Zrenjanin and Borca, the capital of the Republic of Serbia, which will greatly contribute to our end, not only for civilian transport, but also for businessmen. That's a lot of reasons and enough reason to support all the draft laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46888	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46889	Thank you for your discussion and for your support on the bill. You mentioned, among other things, the issue of the road between Zrenjanin and Belgrade. I want to inform you that the province's government has issued a public call for project-technical documentation, I think it has already been selected and who will be doing it, precisely for the Belgrade-Zrenjanin road. I think that's important. We can expect that somewhere in the middle of next year we have completed project technical documentation and that together with the province we are working on other things that are important for the start of the project. You mentioned connecting cities. I think it's a condition of good economic development, a condition for investors to come to us. It's been shown over the past few years. As we finished miles of highways, that really opened factories along the corridors, and that's what it says, after all, and the number of factories that were open, but also the reduction of unemployment. How important it is to be somewhere in the transit corridor, it tells us that, for example, in the last few years, the number of cars has been growing on Corridor 10, so, passing through Corridor 10, so we have 33 million cars, for example, in 2010, and the estimate is that in 2018 there will be at least 55 million cars. This is because traffic is completely returning through Serbia and no longer going through Bulgaria and Romania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46890	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Jelena Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46891	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to point out this amendment to the importance of adopting a whole new law, which will in a special and unique way regulate the area of construction. Reactivated Serbia's economy, building infrastructure, investing in national projects of importance, the budget surplus has been accumulated in Serbia for the third year in a row. A special business branch that has experienced its rebirth and bloom, and for the sake of workers and manufacturers, it certainly is the construction industry. The project of the century "Belgrade on Water" represents the realization of great dreams, which many condemned and few believed in. We believed. And we believed that effort and work ultimately resulted. And the results are visible. Belgrade is building, developing and expanding. Development capacities, quality equipment and building materials will allow Belgrade to shine in architectural and infrastructure terms. In Serbia, not all construction activities are directed only to Belgrade. A major project by the government of the Republic of Serbia locates the construction of apartments for security forces in Vranje, Nis, Novi Sad. And just like this, major state-owned housing projects will have a significant impact on GDP growth. Therefore, law-making is necessary in order to firstly regulate the placing on the market of construction products, which has not been done so far, but also to allow the placement of products beyond Serbia's borders. Also, this law complies with the obligations to bring domestic legislation into line with EU rules. With this in mind, I urge fellow MPs to support a set of laws on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46892	Thank you, colleague Mijatovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46893	Thank you for supporting the bill. You mentioned, among other things, apartments for security services. I think it is important that we inform the citizens not only of this stage that we are really implementing, which means – we have issued a public call and expect to get performers soon, of course, for Nis and Vranje, 190 apartments in Nis, 186 in Vranje, but not all. There is Novi Sad with 2,051 apartments, the value of the investment of 60m euros. Then, Belgrade, with thousands of apartments, is worth 29.8m euros, Sremska Mitrovica with 190 apartments, a value of 5.6m euros, Kragujevac with 1.016 apartments, 30m euros, Nis 71m euros and 2,400 apartments, Kraljevo 946 apartments, 28m euros, Vranje 486 apartments and 14m euros. But that's not all, because there is really a need in the entire territory of Serbia. The next phase we are already preparing is Zaječar - 119 apartments, Zrenjanin - 317 apartments, Kruševac - 361, Leskovac - 345 apartments, Smederevo – 179, Sombor – 185, Cačak – 442. So it's a huge, big, important project conducted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, along with units of local self-government. This will not only ensure that people resolve their housing issues, but also how it will affect economic growth, and how it will affect domestic construction companies, so it will also do the work, but because we will obtain exclusively and only domestic products, that means that domestic materials will be used. And that is why, among other things, this law is also important and important. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46894	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, construction is one of the most important industries, because it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other industries and social categories. Everywhere we had new investments, new roads, we had new jobs and had a positive impact on citizens' lives. Currently, many major infrastructure projects are being done in Serbia, and I would like to mention those who, in addition to these positive effects, bring our people together on both sides of Drina. I would like to quote the construction of the Bratunac-Ljubovija Bridge, where 13m euros were invested and here, there has finally been some agreement to open the bridge, despite some of the brakes we had to see from Sarajevo. I would also mention a major project announced, which is building a highway to Sarajevo. This highway would continue on the highway from Požega to Kotroman, about 60km from Serbia and the value of the investment is around 830m euros. I also hope that this time it will continue its course towards Rogatica, Palam and Sokolac, i.e. through the Republika Srpska and further help develop these undeveloped parts of Republika Srpska. I call on all my colleagues to support the proposed laws, because it will have the greatest impact on our country's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46896	Thank you, fellow Pantovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46897	Because of all those living on this side and on the other side of Drina, the Lyubovija Bridge – Bratunac is of great importance, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia funded the construction of the bridge and we ended it really on the day it was planned. It has long been waiting for the Federation of BiH to make all the decisions it was meant to make and adopt various agreements. What we do know is that public calls are being made for the construction of a traffic station, i.e. on the Bosnian side of everything that is necessary. The Republika Srpska and the Federation have agreed, and I really believe that from next year as planned on their part, so we would like it to be much sooner, but it is not up to us, that somewhere in the middle of next year at the latest by the end of August and finally open that bridge. Otherwise, we're going to have a border crossing here, which I also think is significant. So there won't be a delay in the passage of neither humans nor goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46898	Thank you, Vice President. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46899	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on construction products where I have proposed that Article 2 be added, all with the aim of further defining the subject matter of this law. We have a good bill where construction products are finally regulated and where certain standards are defined that construction products must meet in order to be found on our market. This is how customers are protected because they will be protected in terms of safety as well as in the area of health protection, and manufacturers are also protected, as only by the adoption of this law will one sector of industry that has not so far had legislation be regulated. We are witnessing that in the last six years the construction industry has been constantly developing, construction sites on the territory of the entire country and only good and quality legislation can be ensured that we have a stable development of the domestic construction industry. Construction is a branch of the economy that employs a large number of workers, and in order to do so it is necessary to regulate the area of construction products. When the law on construction products is applied, domestic companies will largely be helped to come out with their products on the foreign market. First of all, on the EU market. This is how the domestic industry develops, and this is the only way we can ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46900	Thank you, colleague Radicevic. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Here you go, Comrade Linta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46901	Thank you. Thousands of apartments for refugee families were built in Serbia in the previous period. Unfortunately, in most cases the quality of building these buildings was very bad. I'll give you some examples. It's bad thermal insulation, hydro insulation and foundations and basements and floors and walls and roofs, which leads to roofs sneezing, there's fire in the walls because of the badly done foundations, and there's a distortion of these walls. We have badly done ceramic works, there are shooting these tiles, bad carpentry, bad sanitary, and people are really bitter about this kind of construction, and they know that the international community, that international donors, have given funds to make apartments in one quality way for the biggest victims of war in the former Yugoslavia, and that they finally solve the key issue of integration, which is the issue of housing. Here, we have the latest case of building 235 apartments in the Ovca village, where there are several buildings, already shooting walls. They're having trouble draining water. On two buildings, it seems to me, there's no roof at all, so residents have big problems with moisture when it rains, when it snows. I would like to appeal to Mrs Mihajlovic and the Serbian government to pay attention to this problem. It is known that the so-called so-called "Serb" is being realized in Serbia. A regional housing programme and that at least tens of thousands of apartments and houses should be built in the coming years. The competent state institution that manages this process of building refugee buildings and apartments is a unit for making a breakthrough... or so-called JUP, so founded by the government. I appeal to Ms. Mihajlovic to send a clear message to JUP that it is asked by investors selected in tenders, that in the next period of the building and apartments for refugee families work in one quality manner according to urban, technical documentation, because it is unacceptable in the 21st century for these people to get apartments built like 200 years ago. So, I urge you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, to engage here and that there really are no problems in the next period both about building apartments and building houses. Why is this an important question, especially for these several thousand families? Now, according to the Refugees Act, these people have the right to buy those apartments. However, the threat already threatens, there is a situation where the Commissioner for Refugees wants to charge high ransom prices for these apartments and these buildings, which I repeat in a bad way, and here is an important conversation with the Refugee Commissioner to see that this purchase price of these apartments is really symbolic or even that people don't pay anything considering that for 20, 25 years they were tenants and taking into account that, I repeat, these apartments are done in a bad and unquality way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46902	Thank you, fellow Linta. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46903	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic and his associates, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens. This is the moment, do you realize, this is the moment to show that the state of Serbia has the strength to deal with illegal construction, this is the moment and to show that the state can be fought and that all those laws and regulations that apply in these really important areas are respected. This is the time to show our citizens that they can really live in urbanized settlements, neighborhoods and streets. Wild construction is the biggest problem in the Republic of Serbia. The number of more than two million buildings illegally built and not built during Alexander Vukic, nor during the SNS, nor during Anna, nor Zorana, were built at any other time, built during the previous government. The number of more than two million illegally built objects is part of the results and character of the government, of the previous authorities, of all those who accuse us today, of playing hide-and-seek, of all those who accuse us of not doing our job well, of not taking responsibility for legalizing objects in our country. I'll remind you, it's all those who have allowed riding, who have allowed urban chaos, all those who have allowed lawlessness in this country and violations of all the rules and rules of law in this country. Take, for example. The city of Belgrade, we can now draw here a map of all 17 Belgrade municipalities and go from municipality to municipality and talk about the character of the government of Dragan Gilas, and their alliance to destroy Serbia and Belgrade, what was the character of the authorities while they had the opportunity to rule Belgrade. Take, for example. "Pazl Grad" municipality of Vozdovac, "Pazl City" a miracle unseen in the centre of the Vozdovac municipality, "Pazl town" cost the citizens of Vozdovac, the citizens of Belgrade 350,000 euros. The "Pazl City" wonder was used exclusively for pre-election purposes by Dragan Gilas, and local officials from the DS on Vozdovac. Instead of a place to play children's games and laugh, it became a mockery and a drug bust, it was built without a building permit, this outdoor playground was built without a local permit, all public procurement procedures were violated in the construction of this failed Gilas facility. Indeed, this is a good opportunity today to remind ourselves of all the failed projects that have been done in Belgrade. Today, we are discussing the Construction Products Act, a modern law that will really bring us closer and bring all those standards in force in EU countries into our domestic legislation. All the materials built in this failed Gilas project, "Pazl City" did not have all the necessary standards, did not have atheists, did not have safety standards, did not have construction standards. Would you let, dear fellow Serbian citizens, your child play in an open playroom like this? I wouldn't. Similar examples of failed projects by Dragan Gilas, can be found in many Belgrade municipalities, Rakovica, New Belgrade, Starar, Vozdovac and other parts of the city. These failed projects cost the citizens of Belgrade 1.2 billion euros as long as Dragan Gilas and their Alliance for Change left us in the amanet after coming down from power. It is a basic task for them to actually return after six years to power in Belgrade and Serbia and to move again to implement all those failed projects, but simply, it will not pass with Serbian citizens this time. In order for Serbian citizens to live with dignity, for our children to be safer, for residents in Serbian apartments and buildings to really be safer, it is necessary to adopt these European laws and these European standards and it is necessary that we implement the process of legalising objects in our country more quickly and efficiently. In 2015, I raised my hand and voted in favour of the Law on the Law of Objects, because I truly believed today that it is possible to carry out a simpler and more effective procedure for the law of objects, legalization of illegally built objects in the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Mihajlović, indeed, I give you a confession. You, in fact, put your hand in an ax's nest. As a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you have really stuck with all the relevant ministries to finally solve one of the biggest problems in our country, because once we adopt these laws, these modern laws that we are discussing today, will no longer happen that we have asbestos buildings, that we have buildings with really suspicious construction products and materials. We will not be allowed to raise our families in such buildings, that families of all the owners of the apartments worry whether the ceiling will fall, what will happen, what will be the pressure of the water, whether it will have sewers, sidewalks and all that necessary municipal infrastructure. It's not gonna happen that we're still having urban chaos. Instead, we will have planned cities, planned and well-organised urban streets, neighborhoods, settlements, everything we find in developed EU countries. I am glad that we will have amendments to the Law on the Law on Law of Objects and Planning and Construction and adequate and effective control of engineering licenses so that all those failures do not take place on the ground. We will have the rule of law, instead of rule and rule of the street which was the character of the previous government in this country. We will finally have an adequate legal response to the reckless behaviour of wild builders in this country. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Mihajlovic, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, this is a time to show that the Republic of Serbia really has the strength to deal with illegal construction in our country. This is the time to show that we can fight to comply with all the laws and regulations that apply in this country. Let's take that moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46904	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46905	Thank you for putting the accent in your presentation on the amendments and additions to the Law of Law. I think it's very important and whatever the opposition MPs are doing everything to somehow forget everything they left us, the data is telling us. Indeed, about two million illegally built buildings left by the authorities in Belgrade, so in general, the democratic authorities in 2012 and 2014 respectively. It wasn't easy to go into solving this issue, because nobody lived before, and they didn't want to, because it's quite clear that this messy story about issuing construction permits was either a place for corruption, it was a place for them to make millions of dollars. When questions are raised from Gilasu 24m euros, well, here it is, perhaps precisely because we were last on the lists for issuing construction permits and because, in fact, more than a million illegally built buildings were built in Belgrade, therefore, during its rule. In any case, the government is in charge. It wasn't easy, we passed the law. Now we're trying to sharpen that law, because we've seen what kind of problems we're facing if we really want to legalize, or if we're going to punish those who really pay attention to building their buildings. It won't be possible to trade apartments anymore. So these amendments and additions of the law are really against those who continue to boastly build where they can't build and, of course, do it for their own benefit because mostly all these apartments and sell. So the amendments and additions of this law will no longer be possible to trade these apartments or whatever they want to do in an illegal way, as it will not be possible if in the process, or in accordance with this law you do not complete the law to do or to do, to perform any service or commercial activity. Remember, say, those discotheques in Novi Sad and what happened. It was an illegal building facility. So we have to take care of security. When we even talk about what happened and how it is today, we don't even need a lot of words. So under 500 construction sites were in 2012 in Belgrade. There are several thousand of them today. Today we are talking about legally issued building permits for over a million squares in Belgrade alone. So these aren't some colorful lies, these are documents that have been issued in a legitimate way. It was not, or very little until 2012, and therefore, among other things, Belgrade as a centre and as the capital was very slow and developing. These are the things they left us. Thank you very much. I hope we can manage not only to adopt these laws, but to, of course, apply them. When you mentioned the Engineering Chamber, I'll remind you that the essence of the change that we want to make in the first place is security and security, so that we don't get the foundation of the building in Baba Vishnino, that the roof of the building is flying in Takovska. Someone's responsible for something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46906	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46907	Thank you. Dear Chairman, this is the moment to open the Rules of Procedure and point to a violation of Article 106 that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Dear Chairman, this is the moment when you start applying article 108 and taking care of order at the National Assembly session. We are not here under obligation, nor are we obliged to listen to election campaigns, especially if they are false, but rather to deal with laws that are on the agenda, and on the agenda we have a set of laws in the field of spatial planning and construction and we need to point out to the citizens of Serbia all the harmful effects of this law. So I ask you to take the session and take this moment to start running this session, because this is how we can talk endlessly, and we will never be able to explain in the right way to the citizens of Serbia what this law is really about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46908	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. I'll explain, of course. First of all, we're politicians here. Everyone here has the right to speak and to have access to the topic that we discuss the way they want it. Col. Stojkovic has this one politically wider approach and I don't see the reason, so the session is quite fine, so she doesn't express her opinion and argument when it comes to the proposals of these laws that we have on the agenda. I don't see why he would prevent a good, quality political debate and debate. We are not experts here, we are primarily politicians, and I respect that there are both experts and people who want to strictly stick to the subject, but we are parliament and we should give the opportunity to the MPs to speak, to address their voters, of course, and to all citizens in accordance with their intensity and what they think they should say in favour and in the interest of those citizens that they represent. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Sonja Pavlovic: Yes, and now I want a word by amendment. Thank you. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46909	Here, since you've given that freedom so that we can talk more widely about this matter as politicians, not as technocratic as engineers, then I'll also give a glimpse of these laws. So what's most problematic about the Law on Planning and Construction, that's what land is for public use in pubs. So I've already said that in the debate in principle and it's been done through a series of members in this law. So, certain groups are also allowed to redeploy the land allocated to them for use, which has never been the case before in any law and is not the case in any law in Europe, which we consider to be pursuing with these amendments in the legislation. Next, the Law on the Law of Objects will never solve the problem as complex as it is and it will eventually delay the solution to the law of objects. The moment it was brought in, there were 2.5 million illegal objects. After its adoption, about a million buildings have been built and it has not achieved its real effect and we are now coming to its change without analysing the effects of previous laws. Here, for example, I have today asked this parliamentary question, where in the Secretariat for Legalisation, the secretary of the Secretariat has not stopped since 2015, a gentleman named Nemanja Stajic, placed in that place by the ruling party, has not refused any legalisation of the facilities of illegally built cottages in the Sava River corridor upstream of the Sava blocs. So, this is one sensitive place, which is the river's protective belt, so in the waterland, the em is an illegally built facility, and it's beside the flood-saving ridge of a large part of New Belgrade, somewhere around 100,000 people, and the spring from which the Belgraders supply water. So that's what could have been solved since 2015. I sincerely hope that this law, which I doubt, will solve this problem and that the ministries that are responsible, which is not only the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, but also the Ministry of Agriculture, the Department of Water, the Ministry of Environment, the Public Enterprise "Serbia", will solve the problem and remove the illegally built cottages in the miniature corridor of the Sava River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46910	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. The word is Dr. Mihailo Jokic, according to this amendment, Dusice Stojkovic. (Mihailo Jokic: Major breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I'm just asking you next time to raise the Rules of Procedure so I know on what basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46911	I didn't bring it for that I can't, but I know a member who is. Look, the lady was talking about how you shouldn't work. You then educated her and explained things to her, and then you let her do what she criticized. This is a circus. This is a gentlemen circus. We're two and a half hours yesterday, Balshu, what is the name of this man sitting in the first bench. He took two and a half hours from us. I don't know if he was making fun of us or drunk? We lost two and a half hours here. Please take care of those who chair, we are talking today about Article 1 of the amendment to Article 1. If you criticized something two minutes ago, then don't do it after three minutes. Be principled, etc. You were supposed to be here all the time to see how your opposition colleagues behave. What was that Balsha doing to us two and a half hours ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46912	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. I feel that I am not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I am trying to secure, while I am chairing every MP an opportunity to say what he wants, and even if it comes out of the subject, it's not some problem, like I just said, we are politicians here and we can have that broader approach to our discussions and topics. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Mihailo Jokic: No. You don't want to. Thank you. Have you heard from your colleague, Pavlovići? It's okay, thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Here you go, Dr. Laketice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46913	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, so today we are talking about a draft law on construction products, and I personally consider this to be a very important law. It is precisely because in one appropriate way they will arrange this area and what is even more important is to finally introduce key standardisation parameters in the area of construction materials and construction products. Why does this matter? First of all, it's very important because Serbia has never been built again, because Serbia has never had construction cranes, construction workers, because we have fantastic data in this particular area, I'm talking about the area of infrastructure, the area of building buildings, and I'd have to absorb several very significant infrastructure projects in the area where I come from, so that's the area of Toplici County. So, once again, I would also support your ministry led by Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, so also for the project highway to Merdar, or Pristina-Drac, because it is one of the projects that means life for that people living downstairs. It is something simply has no alternative, for the reason that complete infrastructure is actually just a prerequisite for the arrival of investors, for one even development that we all advocate together. Personally, I think it's one of the most important projects in the country, not just for our region. In addition, at the meeting of the government held in Prokuplje you spoke with the president of the municipality and put two very important highways on the list of priorities, the way Prokuplje-Zitni Potok and the way Prokuplje-Kruševac via the Ribarska Banje, which will definitely mean this first for Žitni Potok, the survival of the population in Žitni Potok and that area, and this second one will mean a lot for tourism. It's something the Toplice people definitely insist on. In addition to these infrastructure works that are very important to us, I will mention this famous park, which is indeed one of the most magnificent in our country, which is dedicated to the famous Iron regiment. I will mention the project of a large green market that is currently under construction and the plan is to open these new markets next year. I also mention two projects that mean a lot to the end, which is the industrial zone project and the government's decision-making project has also been made and the industrial zone is the future blood vessel of the Toplician region's housewives, a project that will practically eliminate unemployment in our region. So with the project of a hospital that was also agreed at a cabinet session, I think that all of this, and in accordance with this law that speaks, after all, of standardising all construction materials in the territory of the Republic, I personally think that this is exactly how the work will bring good to both our country and our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46914	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46915	Thank you for supporting the amendments and additions to the laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has put before you these days to discuss. I think it's very important to mention the number of sites. They represent a real picture today of Serbia, which is completely different from that picture five or six years ago. So 33,249 construction sites, concluded on September 30th, is on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'm talking about active construction sites. We expect that information to be somewhere at 45,000 by the end of October. So this is about the economic environment, about economic growth, about everything that's going on in the economy itself, that allows us to even have this number and physical, but also the legal entities, the business entities, that have active construction sites. You mentioned a very important highway, but I think it is generally important that Serbia, as I said before, be on the roads not only on the highways, but on the highways. In your neighborhood, in Toplička County, over the past two and a half years, it has been invested only in the reconstruction of the roads of 1.5 billion dinars. The plan is that in this county, because we can, because we have a budget that's stable, because now we have the possibility that we can plan for years and that we can really reconstruct the rehabilitation of roads in that sense and work. So, the plan is to invest in reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads also around a billion over the next two years in Toplička County. When I say somewhere around, we have data, a billion and 100 million to reconstruct and rehabilitate the roads. For Nis-Medare-Pristina secured even now, but next year's budget guarantee. We expect the second half or third quarter of next year so we can start work. This means the project-technical documentation is almost complete and I believe that we will succeed together with the European Investment Bank and the IBRD to start building this highway along with all the highways that we end up with and some new ones that we will start. It is of enormous importance to that part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46916	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Here you go, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46917	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Mihajlovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the first member of the Construction Products Act to put first the improvement of business, of course, in order to further develop the Republic of Serbia. As the subject matter of this law is the precise definition of the conditions for putting on the market in general construction products and the adoption of standards on the quality of materials, or construction products, it is clear that the proposals that are before us today are also proposed to regulate this area and to adopt EU best practices. This will mean a more orderly market for construction products, related to the quality of the materials in the construction of roads, bridges, everything that is being worked intensively in Serbia today, but also safer and environmentally acceptable facilities. Also, there is an open opportunity for innovative construction products to be placed on the market in general and overcome problems relating to both domestic and foreign-market operators concerned the double costs these entities had in proving the conditions in which they operate. When it comes to the balanced development of the Republic of Serbia and the general improvement of business, the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS has led to construction sites around Serbia today. There are no cities and municipalities where new infrastructure is not being built, existing infrastructure is being restored, and today we have a situation to evenly invest in every city, every municipality, every district. There are no more privileged, as we have really witnessed that this was the case in earlier regimes. It used to be invested exclusively in similar, politically similar districts, while other regions remained neglected, neglected, otherwise undeveloped or even devastated. The preconditions are met thanks to the responsible and dedicated policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS and we today can proudly say that we have arranged and stabilised our finances. Also, the policy of peace and stability led by Aleksandar Vucic, the connection in the region, the policy of good neighbourly relations, has led Serbia to raise its reputation in the world and that we have sent a message that we are indeed a suitable place for investment and that we are ready for the recovery of the economy that has been destroyed years ago. I would especially point out, since I come from the municipality of Trstenik, the importance of the announced project of building the Moravia Corridor in the length of 110 kilometers, which will connect Pojate and Preljina, i.e. two corridors, Corridor 10 and 11. I cannot stress enough the importance of this highway for all inhabitants of Cicicevic, Kruševac, Trstenik, Kraljev and Cačka, because this move lives close to 500,000 people and operates a really large number of small and medium-sized enterprises. The memorandum of understanding was signed on the basis of the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia and we expect to start building this 800m-euro highway already next year. This project has been identified as the priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, in order to build new and rebuild existing infrastructure, because it is indeed a prerequisite and what investors expect, in order to achieve and realise investment in the economy, because it is an economy and a driver and it is something that is now most important to us. The vicinity of the highway, the equipment of industrial zones, is something we need to meet in all parts of Serbia, in order to recover Serbia's economy. Critics are very well understood both in the quality of highways and in priorities and in construction and in all these planning. However, while they were in positions to decide, the fact is that they were only engaged in personal interests, the fact is that they were only involved in planning whose orchard is the most rewarding to pass a highway and that they didn't actually do much on the infrastructure, and the budgets were certainly gone. In one of the shows, Vuk Jeremic, as a candidate then for the president of the Republic of Serbia, said that the important Moravian corridor should connect Kragujevac and Užice, therefore, one truly frantic ignorance and ignorance of your own country and geography, but that is what happens when you do not live in the country, and you are running to run it. Fortunately, these people today are no longer making decisions and show daily that they have no policy or programme and that the only thing they know when they are worthy of us to appear at all in the Assembly, to actually present and represent the citizens who voted for them, when they are able to appear here, they only call on the link of the insatiable and political persecution. Citizens have shown unequivocally that SNS policy has no alternative, and in each election, they both support Alexander Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46918	Thank you, colleague Turk. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46919	You mentioned two, in my opinion, very important things, not just infrastructure and new highways that we're going to do, you said that there are no more privileged municipalities, the president of municipalities, cities, etc. And that is very important to mention, there is no district and there is no city or municipality in Serbia that doesn't care, when we talk about infrastructure. So we're trying to evenly invest, especially there, so maybe more where never or very little invested. Of course, there are today certain units of local self-government that behave in this way. You've got a situation, say, Paws. I've been there countless times. You have a situation where, say, on those local committees where, for example, the SNS won, the mayor of Zapca won't allow a single dinar to be invested to develop that part of Capca. They shut down the infirmarys, they don't invest in roads, etc. It's something you really have to stay behind. As for all other cities and municipalities, the situation is completely different. So, we're, as we grow the number of kilometers of highways we're playing, so we're growing revenue from toll. As the toll revenue increases, so we have more money that we can invest in reconstructions and rehabilitation of roads. I'll tell you that until they built the highways, that toll revenue was about a billion dinars in 2012. Today, in 2017, toll revenue is eight billion dinars. That money goes into the roads, therefore, to the maintenance of the highways, but also to the regional roads, to their maintenance. I think that's the most important thing when we talk about reconstructions and rehabilitations. You mentioned, of course, those who don't even know what major cities are, that I'm not talking about smaller cities, but who don't even know what major cities are in Serbia, so they connect Kragujevac and Užice with the Moravski Corridor, etc., they are against, like Jeremic, building the Nis-Medara-Pristina highway, having no idea about the economy or what it means for economic development, etc. But regardless of all of them, so let the critics criticise, so we'll end the highways. Here's Corridor 10, here's Corridor 11. We're starting Nis-Medare-Pristina, starting Ruma-Shabac-Losnica. We are completing the documentation for Zrenjanin - Belgrade. We're talking about the highway to BiH. All this is very important for Serbia to take advantage of its position and not just a transit route, but simply to ensure that our citizens, our people, stay and live in Serbia. So, thank you for your support for these laws and for your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46920	Thank you. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46921	I thank you for your mercy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the next amendment, I will talk about wild construction in Novi Pazar during the former government, which is financed by drug trafficking. But now I'm going to say that it's more important to build a state than to rule it. The country we found was already territorially crippled. She was politically decapitated, militaryly powerless, because they sold their weapons and left us a well-armed army. The state was nationalally humiliated, economically devastated, socially unsustainable, morally mutilated. A state with no chance for the present and future generations, a country with a two-finger government, a government that was two-finger government, the government that made the most important decisions with SMS messages. That was the government of two thumbs. So they're giving us a lecture. We should advocate that resources, natural and created goods belong to the people. We have been honored to have a harshly torn state, which they have torn out of the hands of the people, brought back to the people, brought back to the poor, however, almost robbed. We have been given this obligation and the honor, so I see it, that each of us, in proportion to our abilities, of natural and created goods, has the right to a fair job, to make decent profit, to have a decent home, to have available education and to have a healthy and dignified age, and to provide it with money, so, to build, to sell materials, to produce, to fight for the poor, and not as they did, to fight the poor. And it would be easy for me to take care of the poor. I'm only concerned because the threat of the poor, the rich, who want at all costs, with the support of the outside, to get their hands on the authorities and to fight the poor again, to corrupt them, not poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46922	On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Mihajlo Jokic. Here you go, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46923	Dear gentlemen, dear minister, I will speak of something that no one has spoken of today, which is about the problem we are facing, which will be even more pronounced in the days to come. It's a lack of professional personnel. So, we have, first of all, a lack of labour in construction, we have a lot of skills in construction, and at least we have professional qualified people. To advance, to build in Serbia, to build outside Serbia, we must have professional labour. Professional labour can be provided by dual education. The dual education has begun, but it seems to me it's a little stalled. I have that data, I don't know if they're true, but somewhere between 3,500 and 4,500 students are covered by dual education. If that's true, the total number of students is small. We've entered 32 professions, 32 professions, and that's a little bit, in 52 cities. So this has to increase, it has to increase, if we want to provide professional labour. Now, how do you do that? So, first of all, he has to work very closely with the Ministry of Education. Schools must be trained for initial steps in dual education. To be clear, when the economy needs to start, when the economy needs to accelerate, when it needs to increase GDP, and I always say gross national in gross domestics, then there's the most grateful construction industry. The construction industry first starts it. The construction industry is most complementary, it pulls most of the other industries. You did it well and we're on a good path, we just have to fight it, we have to provide professional labour. That's where there's another danger. The West is hungry, the West needs and there aren't enough of the same workers that we're cooking with here in Serbia. They're sure when this opens up, they'll go there for bigger wages, for those higher incomes, which is perfectly normal. So we need to make sure that they stay here in Serbia and work. I say, without professional labour, we of these projects, which we have well imagined, we cannot accomplish. Another commendation. I commend you on behalf of Valjev for starting this idea project to work the way from Valjev to Nečava to Lykovec. Thank you for keeping your promise and for doing so in those deadlines that you said, and it is very important that deadlines are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46924	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46925	As far as dual education is concerned, nothing stands, like any education, it is a process. So, for everything it takes in that sense time. For example, the Department of Construction supported the establishment of another department at the construction school. I agree with you, we need personnel from the most basic armymen, carpenters and others. A lot of work is done in Serbia, 16 billion euros is the value of investment in infrastructure. So someone needs to realize that. They'll certainly be realized, but it's better for us to be our people, our companies and our citizens. As for Valev, as we said, so the project ends. We have these days and talks in government with potential investors who are mostly from the People's Republic of China, who are interested in participating in construction. After the talks, the government will make certain decisions and we will do our best to enable Valjev to get out on the highway, as is appropriate to this city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46926	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46927	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, the amendment I have submitted is practically part of this bill, and whether you will adopt it or not is a matter of choice. Of course, I'll stay in that seat of this amendment as part of the law. Why? You have really caught up with serious business at this point, and it is to arrange one area that has in no way been arranged in the Republic of Serbia, either directly or indirectly. It is a serious undertaking, very important, both for the development of the Republic of Serbia and for strengthening the infrastructure resources that the Republic of Serbia has, but it is important for each of us, an individual, who, for example, wants to build and do anything, a private building house, any facility. This law will allow us to get a clear picture of the materials we use to build. We won't have to think anymore about whether there's more or less built-in ash in the cement that's now being used, we'll be able to choose whether we're going to pay maybe more expensive cement that doesn't contain ash, whether we're going to use building blocks that also have ash in it or not, which kind of clay. This may at first seem to be some kind of restriction to the Serbian construction industry. What matters to me is that you have used a very important word, since I am not a Euro-fanatic, and I am not someone who advocates the EU in particular, which is to say here that it is Serbian technical specifications. This clearly indicates that by raising standards in the Republic of Serbia, by simply bringing into order areas that were absolutely not regulated, creating the possibility that people who produce these products should also be placed on the European market, that we know very well and in a simple way what we are buying. Will this create a precondition to make it easier for Serbian citizens to reach the EU or not in a referendum? It's just, I'm sure it will. That is why we will support this law, and I think that by accepting such amendments, it can help to further implement this law itself and its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46928	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46929	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Mihajlovic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasant Party and the United Peasants' Party will vote for this amendment to the law in the day of voting. I can't help but comment on what happened yesterday. I believe that you, as someone at the head of the Coordination Body for Equality, will also understand. As a Member of the Socialist Movement, first of all, as a woman, I cannot not react to the harassment of the opposition gentleman concerned, which refers to our colleague Natasa Jovanovic of the SNS. Like my colleagues, I ask the gentleman concerned to apologize. Although it's not his fault, although we don't believe he'll ever do it, I really believe that a nice word and an iron door opens, so if he apologizes, Mrs. Natasha would certainly take the time and explain to him why nothing was done in infrastructure projects by 2012, why no highways were built, why no railways were built, etc. You brought up some data yesterday saying they spent a lot of money, and they did nothing. For that reason, I believe that this story, when we talk about them, to get it into one ear, they go into bed at night, they wake up in the morning and forget, and they rob, forget about destroying the economy, but first of all, what bothers us most about the Socialist movement is that they forgot that they destroyed the factories with their robbery privatisations, that they fired the workers and left them on the street, and that's absolutely unacceptable for us from the Socialist movement. Do they lie to themselves? I don't know. They're trying to lie to the people, I can see that, we all know that here. They're not doing it at all. The people say 50% more votes -- I vote for this coalition. The people say -- I want a Serbia that builds, the people say they want a Serbia that works on infrastructure, the people say they want this kind of economy, this kind of economy, and exactly this reform that we're carrying out here, which has given some results. So I would just say for the end that on the one hand we have those who lie and insult here every day in the congregation benches and insult the dignity of the National Assembly, and on the other hand we have those who, as our President Alexander Vulin would say, speak the truth and stand by his people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46930	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46931	Thank you. Dear President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on construction products which otherwise regulates the subject of this law to Article 1, and my amendment refers to improving Serbia's overall economic development with a specific reference to improving economic exchange. Before I say why I believe that economic exchange, i.e. improving economic exchange, is very important, I must stress, in fact, that the ministry is in the process of adopting a proposal for this law, first of all, from the aspect of the involvement and participation of the manufacturer and all those involved in the production of building material in the making of this law. In fact, they actively participated because the Department of Civil Engineering had one questionnaire on its website on the basis of which the construction material producers could now be declared. The improvement of economic exchange, which refers to construction materials, is, above all, significant from the export aspect. If we know that exports and export increases are a very important parameter in the economic development of each country, including in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, then of course we conclude that increasing the economic exchange of construction products will also affect GDP growth. What I must point out is that in the last three years, the Republic of Serbia has recorded a surplus, or growth three years in a row. That's never happened before. I must also point out that by increasing economic exchange, there will be an increase in demand for construction products. Why? Because Serbia is one big construction site that works and builds, and in its capital, as well as in all other cities and municipalities within Serbia. Therefore, there will be increased demand for construction products, there will also be increased safety and security, as the installation of construction products, which will be certified, will have their declaration, i.e. a personal map, will increase safety and safety and built bridges and built roads and built railways and built buildings. Of course, economic exchange would have been successful and in order to improve it is a very important transport infrastructure, and I must commend that, as regards rail transport infrastructure and Corridor 11. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers and respected citizens of Serbia, the yellow company and the DS have left the 19th-century citizens "Serb Railway". The Belgrade-Bar track ended in 1976 in the last century and nothing invested in its reconstruction since then until 2016. I have to point out that on Corridor 11, which represents a vascular cookhouse, especially for cities and municipalities in the western part of Serbia, I also think of Užice and Priboj, the municipality from which I come, and the Prijepol construction of this $80m railway line, which refers to the Resnik-Valjevo section. We expect that the reconstruction of the railway will continue until the Montenegrin border. The track speed on this section is over 100 kilometers, but unfortunately the yellow company left railways with an average speed of 10, 20, 30 kilometers. Of course it'll never happen again. Unlike them, which I'm not surprised at all yesterday because they left 400,000 workers out of work, they robbed children distracted by 157 million just through the castle "Hetherland". They illegally usurped construction land in Belgrade's most elite part, for Big Brother's house, instead of the children's living room, for their play and for their recreation, but I won't deal with them. What I want to point out is that Alexander Vucic, that the government, is that the SNS implements and implements the policy of winning the work against unhappiness, respect for the law, not lawlessness, victory and telling the truth, exclusively the truth, not the lie, the victory of life, not the death. It's a policy that wins.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46932	Replication to the political party's mention. Here's a colleague of Bozovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46933	I thank my colleague Arsic. So, when we talk about what SNS results are here for the seventh year in power, we have a train station so that Belgraders can't find it, those who come to Belgrade can't believe that the central railway station is SNS, Zoran Mihajlovic, actually a station that has a functioning 60 square meters. On the other hand, I can only remind you of the scandal that took place when we talk about the relationship to the railways, the attitude towards traffic in Serbia, the tradition that existed in this country. You are once, today you are a political thread of the Serbian Radical Party, which fought against the railways in the 19th century. So, that's true tells us that the most valuable locomotive in the 1864 Railway Museum was cut into pieces. It was taken from the depot on 31 August. You cut her to pieces, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that neither you nor the culture minister said a word about it. It's your attitude to modernising Serbia. That locomotive was a modernization against which you were in the 19th century. Now, from the 19th century, you came from this policy into the 21st century, and you are consecrating every modernization policy that has existed since 2000, and you are not only insulting the Engineering Chamber, professional people, professors, doctors of science, you are insulting the government of Zoran Djindjic. That's why you're attacking Mr. Schumartz as Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. You've been talking for the last few days about the devastating policy of the government of Zoran Djindjic because you're afraid of modernity, every kind of modernity. Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46934	Take it easy, colleague Radeta. He mentioned everyone he could in the congregation hall. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. Because it's a transmission, right? The right to a replica, firstly, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46935	Thank you. Let me start at the end, probably Zoran Djindjic, rolling over in the grave, when he knows you're defending him and bringing him up in the first place, that's the first thing. Secondly, when you're talking about the railroad, it's wonderful that you mentioned that railroad, here I'm going to show you what you left in the railroad, this is, say, one of the train stations, Brasina, that's what the DS left. This is the new one we took care of. This is also the building that the DS left us, this is taken care of. All the tracks you left behind, their average speed was 10, 20, 30, 35, 40 kilometers an hour, which is a shame, you didn't invest in a single kilometer of railroad. So this is what the railroads looked like to you, these were your tracks, and this is what Resnik looks like now, like Valjevo, for example. The investment of the state in railways is now measured by billions of euros. When you were in power, then you took loans, say, here's an example for Gilje – Cupria, take a loan, arrange a loan, you don't have a single project, and then five years, stare at the opportunity of that loan, do nothing, and then leave the state to pay, of course interest on that loan. So that's what citizens pay for, you destitute the railroad. So if something wasn't arranged in this country, it's a railway, you've been taking pictures all the time, you haven't rehabilitated a mile of that railroad, and that's what the papers say, the documents, everywhere where the rehab of the railroad is from year to year, whenever it was, so during the rule of the DS zero kilometers is rehabilitated and that's the data. Today, it looks completely different, today you have 250km of track at which the average speed is 110km per hour, today a fast track is being built between Belgrade and Budapest, today the railway itself, from its own resources, which first happened after a few decades, rehabilitates 250km of track. So, not out of credit, not out of budget, but out of own resources. These are among other results of working in the railways, so when you attack the railroad, first remember what you did, because the only thing you do is to tell the truth, more specifically, to tell lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46936	Thank you. You can pick up the amendment later. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was clear to me yesterday that Balsa Bozovic really doesn't know what she's talking about, and today he shows that she is absolutely misunderstood in Serbian history. He's probably tried to be funny, with these srs allurings, but Mr. Bozovic, aside from being a rich man and having a rich father, it would be good if you read a book a little bit. Well, the railways in Serbia were the most built in the second half of the 19th century, at the time of the first prince, and then King Milan Obrenovic, since 1882. At that time, the Progressive Party was represented by the most discreet people of that time, such as Stojan Novakovic, such as Cedomil Mijatovic, such as Milutin Garashanin. They were great people from Serbian history who brought ideas of modernism, progress, progress in all areas of social life, even when it comes to rail traffic. I don't know what this illusion of the SRS and the SRS thread means to you, so Nikola Pasic was an engineer, what are you? Where did you graduate from college? In the coffee shop? Then you come to the National Assembly, you think you're very smart and you say, "Here are those who are the SRS threads, they've cut up some locomotive." What locomotive did we cut? Which locomotive was cut off by anyone? (Balsa Bozovic: From 1846, the most valuable in the museum. ) After all, so don't be nervous, Mr. Bozovic, because you're on the train to Maldives, when do you understand the railways like that? Is there a fast track to Maldives? As I see that you understand everything, whatever the subject comes to the agenda, Balša Bozovic understands everything, ends Law School, at the Bona fides cafe and has a rich dad and has a rich coalition boss, Dragan Dilas, so he thinks he's allowed everything. He hasn't read a single book in his life. He has no idea about Serbian history, he doesn't know what happened in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He insults the most dangerous people in this country, in the history of the Serbian people, no matter what party they belonged to. There were smart people in the liberals, both in the radicals and in the progressives. You're the only one who's got no sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46938	Right to the replica, to mention the political party, the People's MP Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46939	Balsa Bozovic is a little early today, I guess it wouldn't have happened to him yesterday, not to be directly on the broadcast, so now he wants to say everything he thinks he has to say and he doesn't care whether he's telling the truth or lying, he doesn't care whether he knows something or doesn't know it, because he doesn't know it so much, and he's not really aware of it as much as he doesn't know it, but well, let't get a little prophesy, he's not a problem. By mentioning the SRS every time he answers his word, I really don't know what that means to him, except it gives us the right to replicate it to him. The Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Progressive Party have nothing in common and I guess everyone in Serbia knows that today. Now, does his best man Boris Tadic, who's had a bit of an affair these days and won't admit he's been involved in making SNS, already don't know, and they'll have to see it between themselves and agree. With his performances in the National Assembly every time he shows up here, as if he were saying something, Balsa Bozovic actually just confirms that he is really not mentally ready for such a serious debate. (Maya Vidinovic: For God's sake, Arsic! ) This one who sucks and yells should listen and listen to what Balša Bozovic is saying and when he first said about the MP what I just said about him, I didn't hear any cycles from DS. I told you, it has now become something that is allowed and every time we tell you that, because really Balša Bozovic is not mentally ready for this debate, because if I were and of course am not defending anyone from the SNS, he would not have thought to mention any locomotives, when he from a party whose Minister Sutanovac, did we forget, had sold out such tanks as the old Iron, destroyed the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46940	Thank you. First, let's discuss who has the right to speak. counterpart Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, your right to replica was used by the president of the parliamentary group, so withdraw the application. The same for you, Comrade Belacic. Mr. Shormaz on what grounds? By amendment? You'll have to wait. Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46941	Thank you. So SNS policy is no different from 19th-century SRS policy. It's you. It's that value thread that's never broken and you're representing it today. Gunjac, Opak and Russia – that is what SRS and SNS values are. That's all you've got left in the last 200 years. You violate every tradition of Serbia, the Serbian Constitution, the laws of Serbia. You cut the locomotive as the most valuable part of the "Serb Railway" tradition into pieces because you do not understand the value of anything in this country. You're the one who destroyed Savala, you're building Dubai in downtown Belgrade, because you don't understand the value system of modern Serbia. That's what your problem is. You have some MPs here, I don't want to mention their names, but they are at a much lower level of education and consciousness than they were some MPs in the 19th century, and it's not an insult, it's a reality and a fact state What's the essence, that you can't in this way yourself right now as if you're changing history and you're talking about yourself as if you're very modern, you can insult me, and I absolutely don't care, and I'm telling you for the hundredth time, but in the absence of arguments you're showing a lack of character. It's also a political link of your personalities. It's your destiny, and that's how it's gonna be, but in the modern world, policies like this and these kind of characters disappear.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46942	My friend Becic, on what grounds? (Igor Bečić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) First Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not insult Balša Bozovic, I just said he was richer than I am. It's not an insult, it's a fact. You're richer... (Balsa Bozovic: Do you want to change you and me? Come on. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46944	A colleague of Bozovic, a colleague of Martinovic, kept his mouth shut while you were speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46945	I don't mind, Mr. Arsic, what Balsa Bozovic throws. I'm just surprised that a man has an irresistible need to show his ignorance. He's talking about the 19th century. At the time of the rule of the then advanced party, whose traditions we also inherit today, the National Theatre in Belgrade was founded, the National Museum was founded, the Serbian Royal Academy of Science and Arts was founded. You're talking dirty again about politicians back in the day. I repeat again – Nikola Pasic, founder of the People's Radical Party, was an engineer. You say he led the fight against the railways. Well, do you know that he was involved in building the Budapest-Bech railroad as an engineer? Do you know that fact? So, as an engineer, man was involved in building the Budapest-Bech railway and after that, I think in 1873, if memory doesn't cheat, he came to Serbia and only then began to deal with politics. But no one fought the railways, no then radicals, and no other advances. They had conflicts with each other, as we have today, but they both dragged Serbia forward. I don't know how you can come to the National Assembly and say that the 19th century government did something bad for Serbia? Well, Serbia was recognised as a state at the Berlin Congress in 1878. Do you know what the then Romanian king, Karol II, said in 1881, at a time when the Serbian prince was Milan Obrenovic? He said, "I would like to make Serbia out of Romania." So Serbia was a respected country in Europe. We succeeded in the second half of the 19th century and in the early 20th century in making a country out of an undeveloped country, which was under Turkish occupation, out of a rural country, a country where there is an industry, in which there is a railway, which eventually succeeded in the early 20th century, as such to free all southern Slovenian peoples. (President: You are bringing the end, colleague Martinovic. I could list to you by tomorrow the greats of Serbian history, both from the Liberal Party then and from the Progressive Party, and from the Radical Party. Each of them installed one stone at a time in that great mosaic of Serbian history, but you don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46946	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46947	This modern Balsa Bozovic says that our values are leprosy, perv and Russia. Very proud of both the leper and the tail, and for cooperation with Russia we are sincerely at all levels, not the European Union, which you stand for at all costs. Our values aren't even Maldives about other people's expenses, not CIA courses, not NATO lobbying. Our values are not even the opening of the company with Milo Djukanovic, as Balša Bozovic's father did, and in that name he became rich, and then Balsa can strut around the Maldives. Yesterday we spoke here and realized that Balsa Bozovic had made a mistake. He didn't even know which MP had submitted the amendment, he didn't know which member the amendment was to, so he didn't even know what law the amendment was to. The security people say, since they rarely see him, when he comes to the congregation, they ask him, "Excuse me, who are you?" Because a man comes by every once in a while. He said -- you don't know, I'm a political creation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46948	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46949	Mr. Chairman, I think the injured member is 103, although I think it may be beneath the honor to talk about some people here. Because, on their part, it is easy to sell fog and to promise citizens that they will grow honey and milk, that Serbia will have an economy and economic growth in China, America, India and Germany. That citizens will get a thousand euros and a $5,000 salary -- that's already been seen. Once, they cheated on citizens, robbed Serbia, destroyed public finances, left thousands of people without a job and existence, only to fill their personal pockets and party registers, knowing that they are not paying taxes on false promises and aware that they will never come to power, so that someone will ask them if they will meet their 30-point programme, gathered in that unnatural alliance, which only serves them that individual leaders try to distract themselves from the fact that they have to hide millions of euros they have robbed from this nation, which they acquired during their term of office, devasing Serbia. And some others, expecting their white world palos, arrested for corruption, to discuss their role in money laundering, are now trying to portray themselves as Serbia's saviors. Robbery, corruption, the threat of rape, hanging, beating women, that is all they can offer to citizens, contrary to reforms, job creation, the rise of the economy and the economy from the ashes and the reputation of the world and the daily efforts that President Vukic makes to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46950	Comrade Becic, do you want the Assembly to declare itself?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46951	No, they don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46952	Thank you. By amendment, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46953	Here, I'll be brief, but only in addition to something we've already heard about Serbia's railways and one completely unfounded, and I don't know how, by my fellow Democratic Party, I'm being criticised. We had a Committee on European Integration an hour ago, where we discussed two chapters. Of course, none of the opposition, primarily the Democratic Party, attended the Committee's meetings, and their mouths are full of the European Union and European integration. We were just discussing chapters 14 and the negotiating position for Chapter 14 - Transport Policy and Chapter 21 - Transport Networks, which are very much talking about the situation and how it is now and how it was before 2012 Serbia's railways. It is even noted by the European Union that Serbia's railways have made the most progress in the region and that they have made the most progress in the last five years, just in the mandate of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and that the most has been done. So we're not talking about our findings, we're talking about the findings of our partners and associates who say that. Then here we hear things like this, where they call for the 19th century and other situations. So they shouldn't be allowed to tell the citizens the truth, and I want to thank all my colleagues, of course, and ministers, which we keep saying these things, because this is the only truth. Here, there's black on white, the only truth. And because someone thinks that regular demagogy and fiction here can challenge the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Progressive Party, he was wrong. It has appeared to him several times, in various elections, it will also be shown to him from tomorrow on to all who follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46954	By amendment, MP Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46955	Thank you, Chairman. I wouldn't be long. To me, it was simply a burning of ears when one of the speakers of the Gilas coalition of Serbia's drowning alliance spoke a word – a character. Be careful, when you hear a word from there – character, morale, honor, honesty, a normal person vomits at the same time. The torment catches us when we hear the word – the character from there. A feature of those people whose fingers were more in citizens' pockets than in jobs. Of course, those who did everything that we didn't have a kilometer of new roads, that we don't have a kilometer of renewed railways, that we don't have cars, that we don't have locomotives, so just by coming to power, there's something going on in "Serb Railways". They've come to life at last. Today, where and where rails go faster, it's not enough, we're far from Western Europe, in terms of rail development, but we go to them, we catch up with those more developed countries, because we try and work honestly and responsibly, and that's what citizens see. I remember in 2004 I took the train to Sremska Mitrovica, it took me six hours to get to Sremska Mitrovica by train, today much shorter, and that is the merit of the government led by SNS and Minister Mihajlović and all of us sitting here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46956	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46957	Well, since the Committee on European Integration was really discussing fourteenth and twentyths, I think it's important chapters, but when you say there's no opposition, there's no DS, so, you know what, we organized, say, last year and a tour of the Gredile ravine, to simply see, because during their reign there was no Gredile ravine, it was natural beauty during the DS. So he didn't dig a mile, 500 meters, during their reign. None of them from the DS and the opposition, one representative was only from the Dveri, but none of them wanted to take a tour, it was either early or difficult for them. Speaking of railways, it's only a few things to say again because it's not a waste to remember and it's not a waste to know. In 2008, therefore, reconstruction of modernisation, construction of railway infrastructure in railways zero kilometers. There were no papers completed in that year, and 1.3 billion dinars were allocated. Seriously, the question is, what's the deal with that money? We as the Ministry, among other things, have filed certain applications for this period and money that we do not know how it was spent, since there was no mileage. In 2009, well, in 2010, there were also no papers completed this year. Same zero kilometers, and the money that's been allocated to 790 million dinars. So it wasn't the SNS then, it wasn't the directors of the SNS, or the ruling majority, the care was primarily the people of the DS who ran the Railway. In 2011, too, there were no papers completed this year. Zero kilometers of railways have been completed, and a billion dinars singled out for reconstruction only. In 2012 – zero kilometers, 2013 – zero kilometers, and only at the end of 2014 is it moving towards reconstruction and moving among other things into the allocation of money for railway infrastructure. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46958	Thank you. By amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46959	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, here's another contribution to how much ignorance there is with the MPs of the DS. (Balsa Bozovic: What are you confused about? I didn't get confused. On your site, so on the official DS site, you have one piece called the root DS, and then it says the previous DS. The first upcoming DS, the Serbian Progressive Party. The Serbian Progressive Party was founded in January 1881 around a group of young conservatives gathered around the "Videlo" list. She came to power, supported by Prince Milan, implementing liberal reforms, according to which they, therefore from the DS, are implementing liberal reforms, confident that this is the only time for real independence and Serbia's progress. She quickly came into conflict with radicals, with whom she was first in the alliance. By 1883, the Serbian Progressive Party passed the first laws on education, banks, standing armies, doubled the state budget, began building the railway. The party's champions were lawyer Milivoje Pirocanac, Colonel Milutin Garasanin, historian Stojan Novakovic and economist Cedomir Mijatovic, and the next party that was listed as the predecessor of DS, the Independent Radical Party founded in 1901, after a group of younger radicals stepped out of the People's Radical Party that accepted the April constitution and fusion with the advances. The standoffs, according to the 1902 programme, advocate the principles of original radicalism. A one-home National Assembly, a parliamentary monarch, tax cuts, the Balkan Alliance's ageing. By 1914, the party changed even three leaders, Ljub Zivkovic, Ljub Stojanovic and Ljub Davidovic. Therefore, the DS gentlemen have passed over to you, whether you want to admit it or not, but at the end of the day you wrote on your site, the Serbian Progressive Party and the Independent Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46960	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the representatives of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Please give them a round of applause. Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46961	Mr. Martinovic, therefore, why is it bad when one of your scientific papers is plagiarized five times, so you're just changing the title? Because you can't inform yourself in history in a break between two replicas of Google. So you need to know something about it. First of all, the whole of Serbia laughs at you for calling yourself the Serbian Progressive Party and pleading for that name because there is no greater irony, because you wanted to become allegedly a political successor at the time of a very advanced and modern idea in Serbia, which is why you are ridiculous. That's one thing. The second thing you read about LJub Davidovic was the first time you've read it on the DS site. Well, that's, how can I tell you, a disgrace for someone who pleads to run the biggest Parliament club in this assembly. So don't even worry about DS, you take care of your values. None of the parties do, but make up the values and policies they advocate. This is a modern-day Serbian policy that the DS propagated and that together with Zorana Mihajlovic you spit on the government of Zoran Djindjic for three days is constantly talking about how and how you see the future of this country. You were simply more than okay with everything that Nikola Pasic did for Serbia and the citizens, you said for a little while and you said you were proud of it. On the other hand, you are proud of Slobodan Milosevic, to oppose October 5th, you think that Zoran Djindjic stole the election in 2000, that's what you said in this parliament a few days ago and you criticise every modernising idea that the late prime minister's government has politically promoted. This is what makes one Serbian Progressive Party today, which is far more unmodern than the 19th-century unmodern radical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46962	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46963	It's very hard to have a debate with someone who doesn't know anything, and he thinks he knows everything. For a short time, Mr Bozovic said that this advanced 19th-century party was against the railways. (Balsa Bozovic: No, Serbian Radical. ) Well, the Serbian Radical Party did not exist at the time, there was a People's Radical Party. (Balsa Bozovic: E, please sit down. Sit down, please, you have no idea. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46964	Just keep going, Professor Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46965	I don't know why Balša Bozovic is so nervous today, I'm trying to educate him as much as I can, but it's not working out for me. So, because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of Balša Bozovic, no one can obviously help him, but because of the citizens of Serbia, therefore, it says well on their site who they are preceding, the Serbian Progressive Party and the Independent Radical Party. It says, the Serbian Progressive Party advocated reforms, passed laws on banks, education, a standing army, built railways. I told him don't insult, after all, the Serbian Radical Party or the Radical Party, because Nikola Pasic was an engineer of technical sciences, completed studies in Switzerland, Zurich and a radio man as an engineer for building the Belgrade-Budapest railway, then came to Serbia and began to deal with politics. And I repeat that 10 times. Then Balsa Bozovic gets up and says, "If I hadn't read it on the site, I wouldn't know who Ljuba Davidovic is." Well, I know more about the Democratic Party than you have 100 times; and how you came into existence and what you were going through in history, etc. But what is a great sadness for DS, for Ljuba Davidovic, for Milan Grol, after all, and for that Dragoljub Micunovic, as he is, a man, an intellectual, I see that he too is ashamed to come to sit next to you. That the Democratic Party with long history has been history since 1919. In years she fell to the fact that, behold, there are now two DS MPs in the National Assembly, one of whom is Balsa Bozovic, who has no idea about his own party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46966	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, you will receive a colleague, Jovanovic. Only because they threw from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group on time. My colleague Bozovic, for the sake of truth, for two minutes and 20 seconds, you spoke of the replica. I didn't interrupt or stop you from talking. First, Natasa Jovanovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46967	Mr Arsic, since you've been in parliament for a long time, and you've been a member of the Serbian Radical Party for many years, I expected you to stop this official from failing the DS, which apparently draws trauma from teenage days. Not the trauma of personal nature, because what he personally does is no longer interested in anyone, nor the Maldives, nor the tabloids wrote about his private life, but the trauma that made him and his father and other officials and the yellow thieves' families able to sell both the country, national and state interests is something that his seal and nothing can do about his heroism, nor this chatter from his pay phone for two days to wash that personal and family past. But I expected, when he, according to a letter student of a school, showed his ignorance and said that the People's Radical Party, which was founded in 1881 and whose cousin Nikola Pasic, who expressed the statesman, who did much for our country's national interests, said it was either retrograde or how he already wanted to say it. Now, the tortured Bozovic does not know that at that time in Serbia, which suffered great horrors, which had been in slavery for many years under the Turks, which was devastated by great losses and all that our people had survived during that period, was succeeded by the People's Radical Party, which he called to mobilise 90% of the peasant population at that time and all the intelligence that wanted to counter the great influence of the then monarch and Zulu, which the people suffered from the monarchist government. These Serbian radicals, as we call them, because although the party is later in the period of its operation until it is restored, by creating the SRS, which we represent today, made what is most sacred in our society and ultimately of our heart, cherished and always protected the interest of the people, above all social justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46968	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Let me finish the sentence, I answered the Rules of Procedure. He doesn't have the right to a replica. Slow down, you can't go on, slow down. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46969	I thank the chairman. The 107th member of the National Assembly was severely violated by allowing one MP to make noises here earlier and to flutter his hands and legs and yell at Mr. Martinovic – sitting down. That's what this MP used to do across the street, and it's probably what his father taught him, that kind of training. What's worse than that is that you let her play with Serbian national feelings, demean and insult Serbian identity, Serbian national feelings and Serbian tradition. In the worst way, he was making fun of the word "papanac" and you were easily over it, which is probably part of his efforts, to present himself as some kind of elite, to play some fake elite, and only from what he knows, is sitting in the breakfast cafes, but I have an understanding for him too, because for the first time today he may have finally come to work at the National Assembly, and not as he's done so far, he comes at four o'clock in the afternoon, sits at five, half-six, then goes to dorksol cafes, drinks coffee and tweets. So for all these reasons, I think the least you could do is give him a warning measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46970	It is out of the question that my colleague Markovic is being warned about it. I personally even feel that he should be supported, that as much as he talks about it. Every MP has the right to fight for his political programme and to say what he thinks of Serbian citizens, so continue. According to the Rules of Procedure, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46971	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I can't take any more replicas. What I wanted to advertise was a 107 member for two cases. The first case is my father's mention. I think I have a right to say that. He's a man who lives on his pension and he's someone who's in charge of both Serbia and the former Yugoslavia. He was a top athlete, and he showed medals, among other things, not only his results, but his patriotism. On the other hand, you violated the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, because you allowed me 20 seconds to speak longer than expected time. I use this opportunity to apologize to the citizens of Serbia for speaking for 20 seconds longer than the Rules of Procedure has been prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46972	counterpart Bozovic, Serbia's citizens will not become poorer because of the 20 seconds you stole from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during their presentation, but will become poorer because your party while in power and then took the money. It gets poorer, so you don't have to apologize to them, I can apologize to them. As for your father and his mention, you are right, it is your father, but your father was also a prominent political figure in Serbia's political life. I'm not finished with my colleague Bozovic yet. That's the first thing. The second thing, if your father had already had, was a service provider in the public procurement system, I see no reason why he wouldn't be mentioned. He wasn't a service provider? (Balsa Bozovic: No, it's not. You make me laugh a little bit. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46973	Says Mr. Martinovic, he doesn't know why Balsa Bozovic is nervous. Mr. Martinovic because he got up at 12 today and of course he's nervous about it. Imagine how tired he is, he says, he can't do the replicas anymore. He came to say what they sent him, that's what he said and he doesn't know what to say anymore, but he'd be tired and he'd rather get out of here now, but maybe there's no need for us to be involved in Balša Bozovic anymore, he's proved that he's just psychically, now he's said himself, that he's mentally incapable of taking part in a serious debate. But Balsa Bozovic, sitting here, presents, has come to the Assembly as an MP for the DS, and now represents an alliance of those gathered from the carriages and ropes. That's the problem, because he's trying to represent them here as something that should help Serbia, so he's back in 2000, to Zoran Djindjic, for everything he shouldn't be proud of, that there's even a hint of morality. Balsa Bozovic is sitting in the Assembly that his men burned. He's part and heir to that pyromaniac gang and he can object to anything here. Imagine, the biggest problem is that the values of SRS are leper, nuns and Russia. I repeat, I said before, we are very proud of it, and I do not know what Balsa Bozovic can be proud of, that she is in league with Vuk Jeremic, who is an open lobbyist of NATO in Serbia? That's what's been recorded in WikiLeaks, and that's a public secret. Balsa Bozovic is among the largest criminals in Serbia today, and Vuk Jeremic, and that Stamatovic, and Djilas and his dad, not Djilasov but Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46974	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46975	Article 108 and Article 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Article 108 makes it clear that you, as chairman, are holding a session, and Article 27 speaks of equality and equality at every moment of all MPs being represented. It is not nice to listen when colleagues talk about parents, about family of other colleagues, and you, instead of reacting, to cut, you judge, Mr. Arsic, from which side it comes. That's not nice. Each of us is sensitive when it comes to family, especially when it comes to parents. What and how he lives and how he lives and whose father or mother he is, this is no place to discuss. Secondly, you here are persistently ignoring the fact that those who are constantly participating in the elections before the elections are called DSS, DSS, the Movement for Serbia, DJ and God is asking you how, and in the election race itself, they are participating as a coalition. It is a nonsensic that is present with the appearance of multilaterals in Serbia. They always enter parliament through some coalitions, and they are not members of the coalition. There's nothing a man can do about it. This theoretically in political science is not interpreted. We are here to witness that always DS or any of the members of this coalition are giving us lectures on democracy, about elections, and it has never appeared on its own in the same elections when it comes to the republican level. Here, does anyone remember or remember that DS went to the election alone? It's always come out in some coalition, and DS is a real example of how and how man changes ideology, principles, how he adapts only to personal interests. The best example is when Zoran Djindjic, thanks to Jovica Stanisic, replaced Dragoljub Micunovic from the post of president. That's the best example. That's what you have the testimonies about. What more can we talk about? Therefore, you must have the same archaic towards all, given that these now do not know who they belong to, whether they belong to, whether to the alliance, whether to a coalition with which they have entered this parliament. God asks you who it's gonna belong to in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46976	Of course, my colleague Mircic, to make sure that all MPs are equal, but I really can't assume that any MP will wake up and be in what alliance he will be in. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46977	Mr Arsic, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not a children's playground. I would ask you to focus a little on what happens in the O.R. when one of the MPs speaks. Namely, while she had just explained by the law she had on the replica of Radeta counterparts, this Balša Bozovic and his party colleague Maja Vidinovic were engaged in some documentary cinematography. The whole time, they were on cell phones, talking in the O.R., laughing at the ugliness, which you didn't pay attention to. So that's what it says about who people by choosing are on the list they presented to the National Assembly. I am absolutely convinced that for the future it is an impossible mission. If someone like Bozovic and the aforementioned Vidinovic and similar to them should represent the citizens of Serbia, I do not believe it is possible at all in the future elections. On the other hand, I would recommend the MPs and all those who may have forgotten to look at them, and there were from various authors, perhaps not so many of them published on the central media, but you can find these documentaries about what they were doing from October 5th to today -- brave Serbs, Serbian generals, beginning with the former president of the state, delivering to The Hague tribunal, selling Serbs to KIM, leaving over half a million people in robbery privatisation without a job. So you can look at all of this on various YouTube channels and see what the consequences of Serbia today feel from this thieving family that still has cheeks here today, as they do, tossing out the mockery of this Assembly, that instead of covering their ears, that they are silent and smaller than the soft grains, they are still making some photo shoots, selfies and other nonsense that they do all the time during this debate on very serious things that people are interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46978	First, I personally am not in favour of MPs making selfies in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but today it is a fashion. I'm not going to stop my colleagues and colleagues from being personally accused of being behind. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46979	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. I volunteered for the replica because I was mentioned by Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Mrs Radeta, yesterday I said that how the DS MPs behave today was how they acted while they were, that is, having ministers in the Serbian government. So they came to work – 12 o'clock, 14 o'clock, 16 o'clock. They were not interested in Serbia, they were only interested in personal wealth. Here is the only DS MP who mixed all living and amendments and women and parliamentary groups and party names and bill proposals yesterday. Everything's been mixed up alive. I thought it was a moment of weakness, but I see that weakness continues today. He was talking about some values. The values in practice they conducted were the privatisation of sugar for three euros, it was enriched overnight, it bought an expensive car, from torn shoes, it jumped into a expensive suit, it closed 400,000 jobs, I don't care about the maternity, women, children, or the poor. SNS value orientation is all the opposite of what they did until 2012. We are in favour of investment, of new jobs, of modernising Serbia on all grounds. We advocate women's rights, we advocate that every woman in Serbia has guaranteed dignity, but not just dignity in words, but a secure workplace where she will be able to work, where she will be able to earn a salary for herself and for members of her family. It's Alexander Vukic's policy and it's SNS policy. How did they welcome that policy? They met her on the knife. The president of the Republic comes to the Kingdom, thank the Turkish investor for hiring 2,500 people, not only women but also men. Two-and-a-half thousand citizens of the Kings and the Environment, do you know what that means for the King and for the Rahab County? The king was utterly devastated during their reign.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46980	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46981	They robbed the King during the earthquake. It's unrecorded in world history. I'm done. So, the president of the Republic comes to the Kingdom, thank the Turkish investor for hiring 2,500 people, they later tweets, and hates women, and ridicules women, and calls for rape. Alexandra Jerkov asked to finish her sentence, etc. What sentence to finish? There's no closing sentence here. We continue to open factories in other places in Serbia, to try to bring life back to every municipality, every city in Serbia where you destroyed life.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46982	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. [[after breaks]] National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Matić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46983	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I will make an effort to continue from that part of the debate that I participated in, in the principle of the debate that I participated in. There are areas here that are hardly mentioned, and I think they're very important, so, to me, it's a very important urban commission. I think it's one newspaper or very young, I don't know if in Serbia we have any greater experience with urban cohesion, but urban cohesion is very important in itself, especially in Article 107, in Article 107, it is envisaged and it says: urban cohesion is a public interest in the Republic of Serbia. So that's what she's saying to herself about her significance. All of us when we're talking about cohesion, we're thinking about that piece of work that means a piece of agricultural land. However, the urban commission has its importance in the urban part of the construction, in the part where we practically have a certain level of planning documentation done. But it can't be applied until the end because the existing cadastar plots are not, either with the surface, or with the shape, or are unable to do good infrastructure, etc. The question of how to fix it is then raised, which is regulated by the rules of urban cohesion, by the fact that all the rights owned by the owners, i.e. the users of the cadastral parcels that are converted into building plots, simply transferring those rights to new building plots. There is almost no difference between a catastrian and a building plot, only the difference is that the building plot is practically always ready for construction application, and the city plot can be applied in the building and not necessarily. So I think this is something new, young, and that simply our public needs to know about something like this. I think it'll be easier for all of us, especially for those who apply urban cohesion, to do it and do it one easier way. The urban commission is being carried out at a local level, where the Assembly of the Municipality makes a decision on the formation of these commissions, or if it is between two municipalities and more, it is done by the ministry. So, I say, urban cohesion is something quite important, something relatively new, which should be supported and has one effective application in the rapid realization of urban plans. Furthermore, in the part of the legislation we have the same newspaper that has not been known so far in practice, which is that Article 35 says – the competent authority in the legal process benefits from records of objects that are not included in the Immobility Catalogue. So this is where he says he uses records that aren't listed in the Immobilization Catalogue. Up until now, there has always been a record recorded in the Immobilities Catalogue, and this is not included in the Immobilities Catalogue. And it's also going to be done by a state body that enrolls in the Catastre of immovableity, which is good. In one place we have both. Simply, I don't think there are any closer rules, but here the minister will bring a certain sublegal regulation that will regulate the way and procedure of this work. I think it's very important that we have that record from which the legal data will be drawn. Next, maybe it's, like, a thing that doesn't matter too much, but I'll mention it. Maybe it's important to the ones who do the law. An administrative fee determined by law governing administrative fees shall not be paid for the registration of property rights under the law, as well as for the determination of the home number. I think it's helping those who do the law and the acceleration to do the law in one legal and legal way. What I want, in the end, to say refers to the roads and the travel network. There's been a lot of talk here about the roads and the road network, and I think it's worth the attention here. The Minister mentioned several times a network of roads and every time we talk, we talk to the most about the roads of the highest rank. Absolutely that they are needed, etc., but the paths of a lower rank or level simply have to be worked up to that lowest level of roads. If the pathways of a country's blood flow, those roads, I say, are the lowest rank, which are neither the state, which are municipal or local communities, they're simply capillaries, even though it's all a good network, then it makes sense for those high-ranking routes, if it's all well connected through a system of roads or a network of roads. What I want may be concrete, if it is possible for the Minister to respond, is the link between the Koceljev municipality on the highway Obrenovac – Ub. There are two links between Koceljev and the area through which the highway Obrenovac – Ub passes, and I think that their reconstruction, or the reconstruction of one of these routes, which are state roads, would give us one quality way and a good communication of the municipality of Koceljev with the highway. It should not only be considered that the highways of transit, the highways should connect the immediate surroundings with them, have good access to travel communication so that the road, the highway, the road of high rank, have one full significance and give full importance to development and those parts of Serbia, directly, which are along the road but are at a distance of 20, 30, 40, 50 km. That is why I believe that, as far as the Koceljev municipality and other municipalities and cities are concerned, it should simply be a practice. I hope that's what it's gonna be this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46984	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46985	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to say about, of course, this amendment that the POX will support this amendment, because it encourages the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special view of municipalities and cities. In the future, we monarchs will support everything that is in favour of even regional development. I have to say that this amendment has given me the cream for something I want to say, and now I have a chance, and that nine years ago in the Law on Spatial Planning was included my amendment regarding the construction of a section of the highway from Vrbba to Somboro, and then to the Croatian border and to the Hungarian border. Unfortunately, almost all the ministers who were before you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, have completely ignored this amendment and to say that they have kind of ignored, not in some way, but have ignored the law itself which, I say, is crucial for the entire Western region, and especially for the town of Sombor, whose area is the largest border area compared to all cities and municipalities in Serbia. Of course, during communism, it was all done in such a way that it was an ethnic issue to satisfy various ethnic groups, so the highway unfortunately crossed Sombor, rather than going across Subotica, although that highway bypasses about 100 to 110km, to say that road to EU cities that are extremely important to our people, especially those who work abroad. That is why I think it is of real importance to solve this problem, which not only to relieve traffic, and when it comes to border crossings that are around Subotica, but would lead to, I say, and much better circulation in traffic, and that construction of infrastructure itself would certainly lead to the increased interest of investors in this region, which unfortunately still lags, when it comes to other regions, although it does not deserve it. Sombor is a beautiful city, and the Tower is also a beautiful municipality. The mayor with her team in Sombor makes every effort to attract investors, to promote this city in the most beautiful way possible, but simply, without building a highway, without building new crossings that would then come, Sombor has no perspective like many other cities in our Serbia. I think Sombor is in some way a locomotive on our way to the EU, yes, and that Gustrabite road, so to speak, as many say, would in some ways contribute to the development of Sombor. I ask you, here, as a woman dedicated to her work, who takes her job seriously, to ask you in this way not to go through those who were here before you and to take this fact in the most serious way without which Sombor simply has no perspective as it should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46986	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46987	I want to inform you that we and Somboro and other cities and how we do things. I assume you know, in 2019, the rehabilitation of the Kula-Sombor stock begins. I think that's important. As for border crossings, all the border crossings towards Hungary, but also towards Croatia, that is, in this Serbian part, like Batrovci-Kuzin, have started rehabilitating the road already last week, expanding the border crossings, even opening up to that plan, along with the MUP, they are the bearer of that, and a new border crossing to Hungary. So, some things just maybe everybody would like to go faster than they do, but given what it looked like before, and I really think we should do it as fast as possible. As for the highway exit, there was, of course, that idea. There are also institutes that will give us real analysis. Of course, the decision isn't just for the Ministry, it's for the whole government. I believe at some point in front of us we'll talk about it. Let's finish the border crossings first, expand them, have a new one that we're opening up, finish rehab, and in the meantime, see what's going on with those other highway exits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46988	The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Repac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46989	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome Madam Minister with my associates and dear fellow Members. We have before us the Construction Products Act. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this Law, which reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the increase in construction operations. Construction is a strategic branch of the economy because it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories. Once Serbian construction companies built bridges, roads around the world, and were known for the quality of materials and quality works, but many of them disappeared in the privatisation and transition process. The Serbian government recently passed a bill on construction products, a chance to return old glory and jobs around the world. The law should regulate the construction product market, raise the quality of the material used in the construction of bridges, roads, buildings, railways. The law refers to 1200 products classified in 35 areas, which in a few years will have to be adapted to the standards and quality that exists in EU countries. The new law will also make domestic producers competitive on the European market, as the same standards will be applied in the Republic of Serbia, as well as in EU member states. The new regulations will also provide additional incentives to develop construction and allow building facilities to be safe and environmentally acceptable. Construction products are very specific because their performances and properties are seen in full application only when they are installed into the facility. Construction operations play a significant role in business and the development of services. The construction operation is fully equipped for all construction and construction-zanatical works in the area of low and high construction. It has special equipment and machinery, a qualified professional workforce, which is guaranteed to meet all construction works. It's depreciated with us, and that's why it's not competitive on the market. As the Minister said, changing the law to an effective fight against irresponsible investors. I wanted to commend Mrs. Minister for the beginning of the completion of the Ipsylon Legs at Kelebia in Subotica. I wanted to say one more thing about the success of economic reforms in Serbia, primarily GDP growth, new jobs, deficit reduction and one phenomenal, maestro diplomacy by Aleksandr Vukic, who led Serbia to the only country in the world that has managed to build extremely close relations with all key centres of power. It has never brought more respect to Serbia. No country in the world can boast that it has strong relations with Russia, with the United States, that China is the closest friend and Turkey's main ally in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46990	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46991	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Construction Products Act. Certainly, the aim of this law is to regulate the construction product market and I am sure it will be successful in that. What's important for our country is that the construction industry is really in one serious expansion. I have to remind the citizens what it looked like before 2012. It's always good to make those comparisons, what it looks like today, to show what we're doing, and what they're doing. So before 2012, the construction industry only worked with 30% capacity. The state owed construction firms between 600m and a billion euros. As many as 5,000 construction workers were fired. I can show you on the case of the city where I come from, Novi Sad, that, for example, in 2012, only 20 high-building sites were active, and today more than 115 are active and more than 729 construction sites in Novi Sad are active. Not to speak of the Republic of Serbia, as the Minister said, so over 30,000 active construction sites. That really shows how well we're doing. Also dedicated to the construction ministry's work since 2012, today the construction industry generates 5.5% of Serbia's GDP or 1.8 billion euros annually. Today, more than 116,000 workers are employed in it and over 11,500 companies are operating. Why is this important? It is very important, because the construction industry is a driver of the economy, because it directly binds and stimulates over 30 other industries. Here, again, I will mention my town of Novi Sad, headed by Mayor Miloš Vukevic. So this kind of development of the construction industry makes it possible to pool large pairs into the city's budget, and thanks to that, we managed to build a new emergency building at 5,000 square meters, a new music and ballet school at over 15,000 square meters. A new TV building is being built. So we built miles and miles of roads, especially in suburban settlements, which were significantly neglected before 2012. Today, unlike before 2012, everyone can build because before 2012, only privileged tycoons could build before 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46992	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Vujadinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46993	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, members of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, today in the debate on amendments, I will talk about my amendment, and its goal is, above all, to improve the investment climate in the Republic of Serbia. The aim of all legal solutions since 2014 is to put us in line for organised and advanced societies in Europe. To the truth, we have belonged to these advanced societies in some earlier periods, and in some historical circumstances, in some historical circumstances and in some social contexts, we have often been able to serve as a role model to some other communities. This is one of the primary objectives of all legal solutions since 2014, so here we are. The second goal that comes from this is certainly to create a good, first of all, investment climate that will ultimately affect the life of an ordinary man in the Republic of Serbia. We had, however, in the history of times when we could not boast of all that was happening in the Republic of Serbia, and this was contributed by some of our internal forces who worked hard for some of their petty, personal interests or some of the major foreign interests and other interests to remove us and remove us from this society of civilised, or advanced and orderly societies in Europe. There have been a lot of these periods in history, and I will only tell you that one of them was the one from 2000 to 2012, or even until 2016, because, don't forget, the government in the northern Serbian province of DS and its satellites performed until 2016, and that was recently. It's best to talk about facts and figures, so I'm going to make some comparisons about these periods from 2000 to 2016 and about what happened after that. In 2012, I will talk about foreign direct investment, as my amendment is also an investment climate in Serbia, the level of foreign direct investment in Serbia was at $357m. To know what level we were at, I'll make a comparison with the territory of our southern province. The same year in KIM territory, the amount of foreign direct investment was almost the same as in central Serbia, about 300 million. In Croatia, we had a billion and 250 million, almost four times more. In BiH, if I remember correctly, 657 million, which will say twice as much and in Montenegro 609 million. I'm talking about 2012. What do we have now? In 2017, we have foreign direct investments in Serbia at 2 billion and 100 million, compared to 357 million, which is about 6.5 times higher than that period when we had DS and its satellites in power. Of course, all of this in the end, if we add and add more economic growth that will be minus 2% in 2012, which is actually not called economic growth. It's a decline of minus 2% and in 2018, when it's at these moments, according to estimates of 4.9%. All this ultimately affects the life of an ordinary man and then you come to the fact that unemployment in 2012 is 25.5% and now somewhere at 11.5%. These are the things concerning the common man who lives in the Republic of Serbia, the ordinary things that concern all of us who live in the Republic of Serbia, but also those who are our citizens living outside the Republic of Serbia, i.e. First of all, in the environment. I've given numbers to all of us who are in this room and the citizens of Serbia, so let's make comparisons and talk about what's true. I could talk a lot about these numbers, but I'm going to leave it for some next chance, and my amendment is also talking about the importance of improving the investment climate, so that these trends that I've been talking about are continued in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46994	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Savkic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46995	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on construction products – this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving economic resources. The draft law on construction products will for the first time in a unique way regulate the area of construction products and bring it into line with EU standards. In this way, it is ensured that the area of construction products is in line with the latest achievements and the highest standards. The bill aims to create regulated markets for construction products, raise the quality of materials used for construction of residential buildings, bridges, roads, railways and others. This provides competition for manufacturers, raising the quality of all market participants' materials and maintaining favourable prices, which will be an additional incentive for investors. This will allow our companies to maintain the position of a leader in the construction material market in the region. This is a direct boost to further development of construction, as an extremely important area for the development of the Republic of Serbia. The buildings to be built will be safe, safe, high quality with respect to ecological principles. All of this contributes to the safety of construction workers and the longevity of buildings built. With everything in mind, I believe it is necessary to highlight the effect that the proposal for a law on construction products achieves on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and that this is explicitly highlighted in a member of the bill. That's the objective of the amendment I'm proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46996	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46997	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mrs Mihajlovic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on construction products, which reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the development of a construction operation. On the road to accelerated development, progress and modernisation, but also on Serbia's path to joining the EU, thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, responsible SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it obliges us to support the provisions of this law in the day of voting, because it is in the service of the development of our domestic construction and thus the overall development of our country. The law will help raise standards in the area of construction and allow our construction firms to work freely abroad. The main reason for the adoption of the law, with an increase in the quality of the facility, is harmonisation with European regulations. It finally establishes a clear system of delivery and placing on the market of construction products that are such performances to serve the safety of the facility, the protection of life, health and the environment. Construction products as we know are very specific, because their performances and properties in full application are seen only when they are installed in the facilities. For the first time, Serbia will receive a regulation that regulates a specific area that will enable business operators, who today produce construction products, to place these products beyond the borders of our country and thus contribute to the overall development, especially the development of our construction operation. Construction of each country is an important business branch, a component of the national economy of vital importance for achieving national development goals, overall social and economic progress and improving quality of life. The construction economy associated with a large number of economic activities is the development force of society and is an important factor for the functioning of the economy in general. Serbian construction was once highly profitable, accumulated and export-oriented. For years, he was not given enough attention, and a complete collapse occurred during a period of government, the previous regime, as well as all other economic branches in our country. It was almost completely destroyed by a robbery privatisation project, conducted by the DS according to the Burazer model, mostly with the capital of suspected origin. Fortunately in 2012, Mr. Alexander Vukic stopped it. Serbia is now on track for development and progress to the region's largest construction site and beyond, with a budget surplus, a country with 2.3 billion euros in investments, a country with the largest number of construction sites in the region. The law we are discussing will contribute even faster to the development of Serbia, which we from the Serbian Progressive Party are seeking, especially in the development of Serbian construction. This law will ensure that domestic producers are more competitive on the European market, direct them to raising quality, but also to reducing the price of products and materials, which is of particular importance to investors and is the direct interest of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46998	Thank you. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u46999	I thank the chairman. The honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, by supplementing this article, the position I have proposed is further defined by the bill in terms of affirmation of the overall development of our country. Construction is one of the most important industries, as it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories. The construction of highways is the backbone of our country's development, and since 2012 about 250km of highways have been built and about 2,000km of highways and regional roads have been restored, and a new investment cycle in the road network is being prepared, worth several billion euros. On Corridor 11, i.e. the Belgrade highway – southern Adriatic, Ub – Lajkovac, about 12km and LJig – Preljina, a 41km long section was built. By the end of the year, two more shares of this Corridor, from Obrenovac to Ub and from Lajkovec to LJig, will be released in traffic, a total length of about 50km. Thus, it will be completed and opened to traffic 103km of highway from Obrenovac to Preljina near Cačka, and the time of travel on this section will be shortened from the current two hours to one hour. In addition to a significant increase in traffic security, the construction of this highway will no doubt attract a much larger number of investors in Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Ub and LJig, leading to new employment and a rise in living standards, citizens of this part of Serbia. Responsible policy and its activities, the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows that it is working exclusively on the process of our country's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47000	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47001	Thank you for your opinion and for your support. You mentioned the development of infrastructure at all, I think it's important to add one piece of information, which is that in this big, high GDP growth this time, the most important contribution has just been to construction. This is the result of development and investment in construction in previous years. That year they start, first of all from 2014 to here, 21% of the growth in construction alone, when we speak in GDP, so growth compared to the same period of the previous year. You mentioned Corridor 11, I have to admit that next to Corridor 11, we end Corridor 10, we start some new corridors, but it's also the fact that those who didn't really build us, and they didn't work on Corridor 10, and they didn't even think about doing new highways every day, they criticize something, they explain to us that we don't know anything that we're doing, but I would say one other thing by what I can see. It is to join just those who have worked illegally, who have worked against the law, those who have failed to do for the state not one kilometer of highway, nor to rehabilitate one kilometer of rail, and on the other hand have succeeded for themselves and how much to do. You have today, here a while ago a statement from their palos, I call it Stamatovica, which explains that there is no system done on Zlatibor. I think the citizens of Serbia who may not have been on Zlatibor should see what this orderly system looks like on Zlatibor, and he, my dear MPs, looks like this. This is how it's built on Zlatibor, so it's a hole that was dug by the house. This house next door, which is also visible, can fall tomorrow. That's how Stamatovic builds, so he gives his licenses. This is how it's built so you don't happen to see who the investor is and who's building in the middle of Zlatibor. Or, for example, this is what they look like in the center of Zlatibor and the building and these water holes. At the same time, Stamatovic explains to us what his gondola looks like. They need Serbian citizens to know that the equipment for the gondola was bought five years ago, that it was completely outdated, that it was not comparable technology or anything other than gondola in Belgrade. So it's those who gather around crime and those who gather around breaking the laws. We should continue to invest and build both gondola in Belgrade and Belgrade on the water and a new Nis-Medare-Pristina highway, because it is good for the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47002	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47003	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, on Article 1. The Law on Construction Products I have submitted an amendment and more, in your previous presentation, and all MPs in this Chamber agree that without the developed construction sector, without the developed production of construction products, we cannot talk about macroeconomic stability. GDP growth is 4.8% and 4.9%, respectively, depending on the source in the first few months of this year. It's a growth this generation doesn't remember. We never had 4.9% of GDP growth in Serbia's history. Not only is this growth important for Serbia's history, this growth is one of the three largest economic growth in Europe at the moment. The European Union, the European zone, has a growth of 0.5% and I am even more happy, and it is not mentioned in these discussions that the structure of GDP looks different. It's no longer based on sales, privatisation, borrowing, but on investments, as one. As two, on personal consumption and as three on exports, where exports can grow faster, but we have a problem because the EU is not growing fast enough at the moment, that key economic indicator and Serbia's partner at the moment. We are growing industrial production at a rate of 2.8% and when you combine it with building permits issued in August 2018 and 4% higher in the same month of 2017. The value of investments for these licences is 20.9% higher than in 2017 in August. Then it is clear that construction and construction products are one of the main indicators of GDP growth. This growth by 3% to 5.5% says how important the building is for the macroeconomic stability of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47004	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47005	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. The bill and my amendment refer to investment in the economy. The construction product law that we are discussing these days and how it has to do with both investment in the economy and the realisation of infrastructure projects, but also with the employment of new workers. As many as 35 areas of construction products will be produced according to European standards, which means that Serbian construction companies will produce even higher quality products at lower prices. Therefore, both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS are even more capital projects and even more jobs because Serbian domestic construction companies are engaged to realise all capital projects. Since I come from Toplice, I must mention that on Friday, October 12th, a historic cabinet session was held at the headquarters of the Toplic district in Prokuplje. Why historical? Because it's never happened before for all the government members to be in Toplico County headquarters. The aim of your visit was just to look at the potential of the Toplička district, and the Toplički district has potential in terms of industry and tourism, and rich in agriculture. That your intentions are truly true to the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister, here present, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, informed the Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic, that an idea project for the realization of the E-80 highway was completed, i.e. the Way of Peace, which is the most mentioned by Nis-Pristina-Tirana-Dras, which will connect Serbia with Albania. This project is of paramount importance to us, and after the implementation of this project, the image of the Toplic district will be completely changed. Thank you for stabilising public finances and for investing over a billion and a half dinars for rehab and road reconstruction in Toplico County in the previous period, but you have also announced that you will also allocate a billion and a half dinars for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the roads in Toplici County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47006	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47007	Nis-Pločnik, 38km long, could be built in the second half of 2019, according to all projections. We have guarantees and now, we'll have next year's budget. We are talking about the amount of 212m euros. Toplicians know that the government of the Republic of Serbia and how it thinks about this end as well as about, after all, every end of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47008	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, my colleague, Princeevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47009	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on construction products. For the purpose of this Article, for the purpose of monitoring the transmission, the viewers shall be subject to the general provisions, i.e. the introductory provisions, which define what is governed by this law and how the area of construction products is governed. To read the amendment: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving infrastructure." All my colleagues have been talking about the importance of this law so far. Let's mention once again that this is the first time we've had legislation on construction products. So far, there has been no law in our legislation concerning these construction products. Of course, the adoption of this law will make the market for construction products more regulated and raise quality levels in our country itself, and thus create competitiveness and opportunities for our producers to be competitive on the European market. I'd like to mention something else, because of the viewers who didn't watch. I am on Friday in the principle debate, and again to remind our citizens that, regardless of how opposition MPs, who yesterday afternoon and this morning from these empty parliamentary benches currently debated and criticised the government's work, which by all indicators, not our domestic and their criteria, but on the basis of the World Economic Forum, that Serbia has progressed five places on the global competitiveness index ranking for 2018 and that it is now 65th place. That's a five-seat jump. On this basis, based on the analyzed institutional political, economic and other indicators, all aspects of development and the current situation in which our Serbia is located have been seen and nearly 60.9 points have been collected, which is 1.7 points better than last year. So isn't this leap again representing the quality of the government's dedicated work in all areas? I would paraphrasise a saying so I can say that both this government and Serbia are making progress every day. She doesn't mind, but I won't mention them. And in the context of all segments being represented, we should perhaps mention here, perhaps citizens do not know, that two days of business forum Spain-Serbia started in Belgrade, which is the same important thing in the events and 21 Spanish companies from the infrastructure sector, environment, tourism, traffic, construction, agro-food, textile and fashion industries came here. Let me also mention that in these five years of exchange, when we mention the relationship between Spain and Serbia, past all others mentioned by my colleagues, between Serbia and Spain in 2017 reached a figure of 411m euros. So, as the analysis shows, over the past five years, it's doubled. Well, isn't that talking about some better-quality and dedicated government work? So, to mention, yesterday it worked, which is significant in electronic banking, instant payment, which is once again one step forward where the National Bank of Serbia, for the sake of citizens to say, this instant payment allows for 24 hours of transfer of financial resources throughout all 365 days of the year, means day and night. It's the same in that area as the one progress. So, I repeat, this government and this Serbia, under the leadership of the government and President Vukic, are progressing more and more every day, and I hope that further, in particular, the key basic reform moves, which are now creating, in my opinion, the possibility of an even faster development of Serbia in all segments of economic, social development and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47010	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kostic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47011	I thank the chairman. The prominent Deputy Prime Minister, MPs, citizens of Serbia, is one of the infrastructure projects that will certainly affect Serbia's economic development, especially the development of eastern Serbian tourism potentials, but also the opening of the Rutec loop, in the territory of the Aleksinca municipality, in Corridor 10. The very important opening of this loop is because it shortens the road to the Stara Planina by 40 kilometers and to Sokobanja by 15 kilometers. It's not just that it's shortening the road, but it's this way that Alexinac is bypassed, where over the summer, when the tourist season is over 100,000 tourists, endangering the protection of the environment of this municipality. The project is worth about 2m euros, and besides this loop, it includes building a road from the highway to the Little Flower, which is about 6-7km, which would in any case improve the tourism offer of eastern Serbia. The idea has existed for decades, but no government has had any understanding, no will, and it certainly did not understand the economic justification of this project, so this was just a dead letter on paper. Thanks to this government and your ministry, which has really taken over all the ideas and other technical documentation, I sincerely hope that soon, at least in 2020, we will have a tourist offer at a much higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47012	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Parezanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47013	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Deputy Prime Minister, it is quite clear that the construction industry has a significant share in the economic growth of our country, and this is primarily thanks to the fact that more than 30,000 roads are being built, schools, hospitals are being built, factories are being built and really impressive data that you have provided in the principle debate, that there are currently more than 30,000 construction sites in Serbia, it would be said as never before, and also very important information that we are in the first half of this year, if I am not mistaken, that 15% more construction permits have been issued than the previous year, which suggests that the state is creating both legal and political stability that foreign and domestic investors invest their capital in Serbia. My personal impression, when it comes to the city I come from, the town of Cachak, is that many residential buildings are also being built. What may be even more important is that all these apartments are mainly sold before the construction of these facilities, which is also one of the growth parameters of the economy. Generally speaking, when it comes to Cačak, only positive news in the context of Corridor 11, shares that we are about to finish, and those that we have yet to start, the Moravia Corridor, the first major factories after 30 years of waiting, have two large Forverk factories and the Viland that should employ more than 1,000 citizens, we have a third that we expect very soon. What is also very important is the airport of Lađevci, I want to ask you, and the President of Serbia, on my behalf and on behalf of all citizens, to make an additional effort to make the airport civil-military because it is very important both for the economic development of Central Serbia and for the tourist offer. When we have such results, of course on the other hand, only personal attacks can come, and it is not that in these few days we have heard something new only of repeated floscule, which I honestly don't think should be specifically commented on, because if we know that in the town of Cačka during the course of Milisav Obradovic and the Alliance for Serbia there were over 90,000 illegal objects, that in Serbia there were a few million illegal objects, that it's almost impossible to count, I think it's really unnecessary for any of them to hold any lectures when it comes to illegal construction, at least this should be kept silent. What I keep saying is, when Dragan Gilas comes to Cacak, I just want him to tell us one crucial thing that they did for Cacak in 12 years, so only one, because if there was one, they would come in front of that building or some other time, any infrastructure project and they would take pictures here and they would say, this is what we did, or when Vuk Jeremic came to Jezevic, to his father's hometown, maybe he would take pictures next to the House of Culture or some time and say, "This is what we did when I was a minister." But there is no such thing, so they are forced to be constantly photographed in the rooms of these Latvians from Cačka. How personal these attacks can be seen these days, because in the city of Chačka, very offensive flyers have been created on which a bunch of lies and slanders have been written at the expense of Mayor Chacka, where one man's target is drawn open, where they are false, under cover of nights, they enter private estates in the courtyard of the citizens of Cačka and hangs these flyers on their cars. We're used to it, and we don't have a problem with it let them keep attacking us, our families, just when the elections come, don't let them complain that they've been kidnapped and let them blame others and don't talk about how citizens don't understand them, because citizens understand great because they understand their politics, because they don't want to give them a voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47014	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47015	You're absolutely right, and I agree with you, fortunately Cacak changes for better and in infrastructure, whether we're talking about municipal infrastructure, investment of state and city of Cačka in municipal infrastructure, as well as in travel infrastructure. But they may be criticizing, for example, the famous story about the viaduct at Cačka and about this overpass and about these famous pillars that were problematic, which no one had practically rehabilitated for 50 years, was more precisely Velja Ilic in 2002 and 2003 invested a million euros, and they didn't touch any pillars. This is how some worked before 2012 and 2014. That's not how this government works. That's not how Alexander Vukic works, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so we're really trying wherever we can in every part of Serbia to invest money in infrastructure. You mentioned, the town of Cačak is somehow in the center, through it passes both Corridor 11 and Moravia Corridor. In the town of Cačka, it is likely that, as much as next year, apartments for security forces will also be built, over 400 apartments have shown security forces as their need to build buildings there. Shipjevci Airport, which will become fully operational at the beginning of next year in the sense that it will be a mixed airport, therefore, military-civil airport. It's all important if we want to develop a complete district, especially if we're talking about our own country. Therefore, those who criticise and tell everything and everything should just look at the data. Someone had talked about the criteria before. Some of the criteria were their pockets, their personal interests, and we have criteria to be known in the world, to be first in Europe and foreign direct investment, by the decline of unemployment, by the development of our country, by the growth of living standards. These are the criteria that lead both the SNS and, above all, the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47016	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47017	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Construction Products Act because I want to further define the subject of this law with a special reference to the growth of the country's economic potential. The reason for the adoption of the Construction Products Act is the need to make a general regulation to place construction products on the market, which has been confirmed by all entities in the public debates held in all major cities in Serbia in the previous period. Serbia is investing 79.97 billion dinars in capital projects this year alone. The most money is invested in the construction of highways, railways and railway infrastructures. After a year and a half since the start of a series of capital projects, large growth has already been seen in the construction sector. Many projects have been under way for more than three decades. For example, next year the reconstruction of the Belgrade railway begins – Bar, which took 30 years. The most realistic deadline for the completion of these works is 2021. Serbia continues to build Corridor 11, from Požega and beyond, on which it will work more intensively together with Montenegro in the future, because infrastructure integration is a safe way for a better life and a better standard for the whole region. As for the economic potential, we have seen here that it is growing year after year, and we have heard today from Minister Mihajlovic about the dizzy growth of the number of builders in our country, which is now more than 33,000, really impressive. Investment in infrastructure construction affects both growth in the construction sector and the reduction of unemployment, and thus the social standard in the Republic of Serbia. We have a very high-quality and educated workforce, and we still need to continue through the dual education that my colleague Jokic was talking about in improving and developing these skills in order to train construction workers as much as possible, because we are returning the old glory to construction. In the end, I'd just like to point out one problem, because I come from Mladenec, and that's the problem with the bottleneck in road traffic, especially on the weekends. So I ask you, perhaps in some future plans of the Ministry, to solve the problem of building a detour around Mladnjevac from Stanojevac until the route to Topola and Arandjelovac. Now the priorities are different, we're not talking here about the forest magistrate, only that part of the road, from Stanojevac to the raking for Topola and Arangelovac, because it's going through a populated place and the road is in two tapes that sometimes starts, starting with the crowds of Little Fireman himself. I'm sure you're familiar with this problem only this opportunity to ask that in some of the following priorities there be this small share. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47018	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47019	As for Mladenovac, we were there, we talked, talked, talked to the Serbian Ways, and we expect, therefore, for the safety of traffic because it is number one, if we talk, it means safe road and safe citizens. We expect to receive final documentation for that part by 1 March next year and it is possible that these things will change. And what's also important is we're finishing some projects that some of us haven't finished in 20, 30 or more years. We are also starting a new investment cycle next year and it is worth several billion euros. So, only in the roads of next year, we have the Frushkogorski corridor, then we have a corridor of Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, then Zrenjanin-Belgrade, for which project-technical documentation must be completed. It also begins to build a very important section on Corridor 11, which is Preljina-Požega, and at the same time next year, project technical documentation will be completed from Požega to Boljer, as well as documentation for Požega-Kotroman, or Sremska Raca-Kuzin, as we also want to go to BiH. In rail traffic, the new investment cycle involves the start of works on the shares from Novi Sad to Subotica, the fast track, Belgrade-Budapest, we are already working on these previous first two shares, and then the work on the Nis-Dimitrovgrad track begins. The expropriation in Nis is now being completed, related to the bypass line around Nis, then Nis-Presevo and is due to be completed by May of project-technical documentation to continue from Valjevo to the border to Bar. The estimated value of the investment is about 350m euros. Not to mention getting out on the highway of Valev, the Fireman, etc. It's all big infrastructure projects that we're starting next year, and those that are already under way, we're slowly finishing and it's good and important, just to increase our share of construction in GDP, for the better lives of people here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47020	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47021	Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Minister with Associates, the country's priority tasks are to create and develop key competitiveness factors, i.e. quality and efficient institutions, to improve the business environment of economic operators and encourage innovation. Innovation is represented by new technologies, which raises the level of competitiveness and precisely through the level of competitiveness reflects the performance of a single economy, economic growth and development. This law will raise construction standards in Serbia and make domestic producers more competitive on the European market. The same standards as in EU member states will apply in Serbia, which is an additional incentive to develop construction. The construction product market covers 1,200 products used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other buildings. This is a law that is important for the Serbian industry and gives improvement to the business environment, with a transitional period that will allow all entities whose business is linked to it, to adapt to standards and to obtain the necessary equipment. A favourable business environment, which only provided our government, led by President Vukic, has attracted both domestic and foreign investors. The “Master Layer” factory for the production of glass wool was launched in Subotica. The new plant of Hungary's investor in Subotica is worth a total of 7.5m euros and employs about 200 workers. The Austrian firm Baumit announced an expansion of production capacities. He's in the production of facades, plasters, hydro insulation, and enlargement will bring new jobs. In Arangelovac, a factory for the production of construction styropor, the domestic company Bekament, besides the existing 300 workers, was employed another 70, and it is a factory for the production of paints, facades, construction glues and materials, whose annual capacity is 250,000 T. Finally we know that the use of quality construction products for construction purposes facilitates faster issue of construction permits and that is something that makes Serbia at the very top of the scale. In two years, the ministry issued construction permits worth over 1.33 billion euros. The ministry also issued building permits to build the first 376 apartments for security forces in Vranje and Nis. 1.4 billion dinars will be invested in the construction, and a tender for the selection of contractors was launched on 6 October this year. Serbia ends construction of road Corridor 10 this year, the Eastern and South arms, as well as works to build bridges across Sava and Kolubara, on a section from Surcin to Obrenovac, on the highway, on Corridor 11. The value of a project that involves building a 17.6km highway with a new 1581mm bridge is 233.7mm, and our partner is a Chinese company. These are all the results of our government, and therefore this law will contribute to the development and strengthening of our economy. The amendment I have made is just further defined by Article 1 of the proposed law, with special reference to the strengthening of economic resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47022	The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47023	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about what kind of builders we have, best says their employment in the whole world. Once we've passed this law in a day's time on construction products, which means we're going to standardize these products, and we're going to be able to place them all over Europe. The construction of infrastructure directly affects and promotes economic growth, the completion of Corridor 10 of both arms, the construction of new roads, the modernisation of railways and the improvement of air traffic encourages the development of the Republic of Serbia. By the end of 2018, Corridor 10 will be completed after 60 years, finally. It is only able to do SNS and I am very grateful to all the people who make this government and all the people who are in the SNS. So, after 60 years, it's supposed to be in gold letters somewhere. Also, Corridor 11 is being built on the direction of Montenegro, we built the highway LJig-Preljina, Ub-Lajkovac, we build the highway Surcin-Obrenovac bypass. Construction of the Preljina-Požega highway will begin, and the Požega-Boljare highway will begin very quickly, to the very border with Montenegro. Works from the Ostružni Bridge to the loop of Bubanj Potok have also begun construction. To get a foreign investor into our country, there must be a good travel network, there must be good infrastructure. How else are all products going to be placed, if we don't have a travel network, and it is done that according to the number of inhabitants, the travel network will be the most developed in Europe for five to ten years at the latest, and perhaps throughout the world. That is why the highway of Pojate-Preljina or the Moravia Corridor will be built and this will connect Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. Also, we will build the Nis-Medara highway, Belgrade-Pancevo-Vršac to the Romanian border itself. Speaking of Belgrade-Panchev, the highway has already been built, it is missing until Vrsac and then we will have a complete highway to Romania. Here we have regional development on that side. We will build a Fruskogorski corridor that will connect Novi Sad, Irig and Ruma and thus contribute to full regional integration. It should be noted that there are at least 30,000 small and medium-sized enterprises in the move. From 2012 to 2018, more than 300km of roads were revitalised. Serbia, once again, will be the best in Europe in 10 years, if not in the world. That's how the responsible government works.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47024	National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here's a colleague of Atlagic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47025	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Minister with fellow Members, I am pleased that you are very often in this high House. It speaks of your relationship to work, and I must say that your associates have more than all of these opposite me from the alliance, at least that's what they say about Serbia, and I call them the Alliance for the Second Robbery of Serbia. I ask the cameramen to show and see how many there are, there are none in this high house. People call you people who don't like to work "lesi-divics". So it wasn't me who gave them that name, it was them. There is no doubt that this law on construction, construction products, and my proposed amendment, if the government accepts it, will contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of honourable MPs in this high House and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and at the head of Serbia's accelerated modernisation is its engine, the Honored President, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic. The former regime carried out a wild robbery privatisation and brought the country to the brink of the iris. During the former regime's government, 51 billion euros were raised from Serbia, according to the US Institute. I remind only a few robberies and robbery privatisations – Azotara, Galenika, Kolubara, Agrobanka, Vojvodine Development Banka, sugars sold for one dinar. Four of the largest development banks were also robbed, i.e. bankruptcy was introduced. It is Beobanka, Belgrade Banka, Jugobanka and Investbanka. Bozidar Djelic, called the Duke of Meridian Bank, lied with 11m euros that these four banks owed over four billion euros, with only a billion and 700m, and their claims were three times higher. As for construction products, they destroyed, among other things, three cement plants – Beocin, Popovac and Kosjerić. They sold them for a bogeyman at the very beginning of the economic sunflower and savage robbery privatisation. Whatever they touched, they destroyed it. Those Dossian ministers, Minister Vlahovic, Bozidar Djelic, were well installed, where he is now Minister Djelic, Minister Šumarac and Mirko Cvetkovic. That is why it is not surprising that five of their Dossos ministers were arrested and that Sasa Dragin, Oliver Dulic, Jasna Matic, Slobodan Milosavljevic and Minister Bubalo. The former regime has destroyed our past, our present, the future of our children. If they had stayed in power for just a year, they would have destroyed our roots for sure. Look at the miracles, here they are, reunited with the alliance, as they say, for Serbia, and I call it an alliance for another Serbian robbery. The first was when they were in DOS and Dragan Djilas, a.k.a. Djiki Mafia, Vuk Jeremic, a.k.a. Wolf descendant, Saša Jankovic, called Sale prangia, Janko unhappy Veselinović, called Janko Stanocrat, Dusan Petrovic, a.k.a. cow killer, Boris Tadic, called Boris Lipicaner, Balša Bozinović, came to the coffee shop today, called a pirate from Maldiva and Bosko Obradovic, called Lupetiv. Here they are, daily wandering around Serbia's cities, seeking support again for the second robbery of Serbia, and one they forgot, that the people had sent them into a political past that they would certainly never return from. Finally, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you respected MPs, to deny one thing said by Djordje Vukadinovic two days ago, called Djordje Vlah. Djorđe Vukadinović, called Đorđe Vlah, in 17.10.2018 at 6 p.m. and one second in this high house, insulted the esteemed Mr. Marijan Risticevic. He said it wasn't this parliament for him, but to sit in front of a village store and drink beer and wages. Then I invited him to apologize to Mr. Risticevic, all the peasants and farmers and farmers. I brought a stenogram and only one sentence to say. He always says I don't have sources, but you well know, respected citizens, that my sources are really quotes. He said this - as I quote Mr. Vukadinović, called Vlah, a colleague of Risticevic, should dig a field in a normal country, drink beer in front of the store, and predate it, and he is a national MP here, finished quote. I invite Mr. Djordz Vukadinovic, called Vlach, to apologize to the esteemed Mr. Marijan Risticevic, to all farmers, to apologize to me and to the state of Serbia, because he humiliated her here too. Finally, a respected minister, they mentioned your government, or our government, that she had done a little bit, that the former government had done a lot. I'm only doing one sentence for the time. They also mentioned the government of Zoran Djindjic. In 1999, Zoran Djindjic and the entire government advocated the bombing of our country. Gentlemen of the former regime, have you heard of Kunciger? Of course not. It is a former adviser to German Chancellor Kol, who said, quotes him, and we are uraging for TV performances in German cities in 1999 for Zoran Djindjic and Milo Djukanovic, who advocated their country's faster bombing, completed a quote. Dear citizens of Serbia, could anyone believe that those who advocated the 1999 bombing and killing our children, when they came to power in 2000, could do something good for the citizens of Serbia? Of course not, only those who suffer from amnesia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47026	Thank you. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47027	Thank you, Chairman. Honored Deputy Prime Minister, Honored fellow Members of the People, to Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on construction products, which adds Article 2 and which encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to improving economic development. The objective of the amendment is to further define the subject matter of this law. For the country's economic development, investment in the construction of traffic infrastructure is of great importance, and highway construction significantly increases traffic safety and achieves a greater number of investors. Thanks to the good decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your ministry, the importance of construction of traffic is recognised as a priority for the country's economic development, so that our Serbia is slowly but surely becoming a better place for life. A better place to live for us from western Serbia and the town of Užica, where I come from, will certainly be all our cities and places of this part of the country when they are connected by the highway to Corridor 11. At present, part of the highway from LJg to Preljina in length of 40 km, which has been released into operation, gives a sense of security to all residents of this area and the hope that a better future awaits us, especially our children with a safer journey, because the Ibar highway is generally known for being overloaded around a place where many human lives are lost. This highway, apart from saving people's lives, is also an opportunity for investors to spend more work and more investment in all parts of the highway. Your announcement, Madam Minister, that by the end of the year in Corridor 11 a total of 102km of highways will be opened and that in March of next year, works on the section from Preljina to Požega, which is due to be completed by 2021, will be of great importance for the development and economic empowerment of all Western Serbia. Construction of the highway will allow young people to stay in their environments, start their own business and help in the future development of their end. That is the priority of the state and government of the Republic of Serbia and its even development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47028	Thank you. I ask the National Assembly to take over the cards of the MPs who are not present in the hall, and they are in the electronic voting units. The National MP Branimir Rancic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47029	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Mihajlovic, respected ministers from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, this amendment further defines the subject of the draft law on construction products. The new law, in addition to raising construction standards in Serbia, will also make domestic products more competitive on the European market, as the same standards will apply in Serbia as in EU member states. The establishment of a national quality infrastructure system has a multiple objective. First, the main indicator is the safety product placement. Secondly, it is an indicator of the extent to which consumers are protected – health, safety, environmental protection. Third, it's support for economic development at all. Construction, as a complex activity, involves services and evaluations from design to execution, as well as the installation of finished products that should satisfy project quality, safety, as well as the request of end-user. Construction is conditioned by environmental protection, is an important factor in sustainable development and is inevitably linked to other activities, electrical engineering, engineering, technology. Strategicly, construction is one of the most important industries, as it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories. Well, in this sense, it should be warned that the term “the system of sick buildings”, not as is said about “smelling buildings,” used since 1970, to describe a situation where more people complain about the appearance of more temporary, non-specific symptoms associated with staying in a building where they live and work. According to WHO, there are more than 1.2 million business buildings in the world today have the characteristics of “the system of sick buildings”. It is very difficult to establish the exact cause of ‘the sick buildings’, but measures have established high concentrations of half-tanates such as evaporative organic compounds, formaldehydes, benzene, ammonia, chloroform, trichloroethylene, carbon tetra chloride, toluene, which can be found in building materials and indirectly pollute the air in the environment in which man lives and works. The new regulation will give additional incentive to the development of construction and will allow building facilities to be safer and environmentally more acceptable, preserving the life and health of people throughout the life cycle of construction facilities. Finally, as far as roads are concerned, colleagues have talked a lot about it, and I will just say that the dictatorship “all the roads lead to Rome, ” can be replaced by the current dictatorship“ all the roads of water to Nis. ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47030	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zarko Bogatinovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague of Richtinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47031	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Ministers Mihajlovic with associates, all existing manufacturers of construction products in Leskovac expand their production and production capacity, new producers work with full steam to open the plant, and there are many potential investors who are interested in Leskovac and this is a great honor for us, because it is an indication that we worked in a good direction and that the efforts of local self-government, led by SNS and Mayor Dr. Goran Cvetanović, paid off. As an example, I will list the local company "Mlados", which is one of the largest and most significant construction producers in the region, a known name on the market, a synonym for quality scratches and building blocks and inter-supervised structures that have found their way to satisfied users in the entire territory of Serbia, but also Kosovo and Metohija, in the markets of Macedonia, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, Montenegro and Russia. Also listed by the company, the Romanian company Terrastil, which opened the plant in Leskovac exactly a year ago, a town with a favourable business environment, where Leskovac was recognised as a reliable partner and a place where they could develop and improve their production. The company "Terastyl" has invested continuously in the development of technology and now has the capacity to produce refined profiles and thermo-insulating panels with polyurethane foam pur and polyurethane firestal foam, as well as steel external elements. Moreover, thanks to being part of the Terraplast group, the company Terrastil has complemented its programme with the products of the parent company, so that it can offer complete solutions with clients, hale - key in hand. Dear Madam Minister, when we took responsibility in the city of Leskovac in 2012, we found streets that were eager to rebuild. The organisation of most of the city's and rural roads hasn't been done in decades. In a period of five years, more than 60 cars were built and reconstructed in the city and the surrounding area. The length of them is over 25,000 meters and the value of more than half a billion dinars. Significant attention is also given to pedestrian surfaces, construction and rehabilitation of sidewalks is made on an area of 17,000 square meters, for which 53 million dinars have been allocated. It's good planning, respected colleagues, and real support for the adoption of such and similar laws. Of course, the town of Leskovac invests in a better life, quality of life. A new water network of 32km has been built, for which 96 million dinars have been allocated. The sewerage network was built in the length of 8,500m, totaling 37.3m dinars. You could have made sure of all this, Madam Minister, during your visits to the town of Leskovac, which I sincerely thank you for. Of course, I'd also like to thank you for your emergency in connection with the Leskovec bypass. Already today, the Road of Serbia called and I hope that this project will be brought to an end, as was the agreement and that bridge, too, the unfortunate bridge that hangs in the air and continues in Donji Krajinc, to the general satisfaction of the people of Leskovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47032	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic, always inspiring. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Živan Djurisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47033	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on construction products and it reads: "Article 1. The proposal for a law on construction products is added to Article 2 which reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving investment." Article 1 The draft law on construction products is prescribed for placing on the market and making available on the market of construction products. This article has defined other issues that have been regulated by this law and has so far been partially regulated into several laws in the area of construction, as well as by a series of sublegal acts. In my amendment, I wanted to highlight the importance of this law for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, especially of improving investment. I am using this opportunity to, in line with the subject of the amendment, highlight what has been done and what tasks and facilities have been the local self-government I come from, the Municipality of the Great Plan, invested the last three years since the SNS assumed responsibility for the exercise of power in this local self-government. This time I'll list some of what was done on the facilities in the Great Plan, in all the settlements in the territory of this municipality. It's about objects that haven't been invested in decades ago, and some of them have been completely out of use. The municipality was awarded a project through the Public Investment Management Office which reconstructed the Home of Health in the Great Plan, replaced the carpentry, isolated and facades worth 15 million 572 thousand 987 dinars. Also, a project has been done to complete and sort it out. When it comes to home health, local self-government has provided funds of three million 341 thousand dinars, which has purchased a sanitary vehicle for the transport of patients for dialysis, as well as funds for the purchase of a spirometer and a physical therapy device. Significant funds have been invested in the construction of all rural infirmarys, in Markovac, Veliki Oras, Bresje, Velika Plana, Trnovič, Lozovic, Milosevec, Krnjevo. The Technical School received funds from the Ministry of Industry for reconstruction and installation at the "Nikola Tesla" Technical School in the Great Plan, and local self-government participated with a million 16,000 281 dinar. From the government of the Republic of Serbia, through the Public Investment Management Office, 18 million dinars were approved for the reconstruction of the physical hall, OS "The Second Forest Squad" in Markovac. The government of the Republic of Serbia has received 10 million dinars, and local self-government is investing from its resources 90 million dinars to build a preschool child accommodation facility, a children's kindergarten "Children's Joy" in the Great Plan. Thanks to urban plans and other planning documentation, the local self-government of the Great Plan municipality, good conditions have been created in the area of housing and investors find interest in building in the Great Plan. It is interesting that the customers of apartments and citizens from surrounding municipalities who buy apartments are well equipped with complete infrastructure, and they all have central steam heating and gas connection, which provides quality life in winter months. In recent years, a number of residential business buildings have been built, and now five residential buildings are under construction with over 120 apartments and joints. The surrounding population has the right perception that the Great Plan is a perspective environment with a developmental trend. The other investments this municipality has had in the last three years, I will talk about the other amendments. In voting day, I will vote for this law, as well as the other laws that are on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47034	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47035	Dear Chairman, vice-presidents with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, in the opening presentation of Minister Mihajlovic, we met with the elements of the proposed law. I must point out that this bill is the same as the EU rules. I will now focus on the problem of illegal construction, which is one of the priorities of this government and the policy led by SNS and Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic. I will support my discussion that there are now over two million illegally built objects in Serbia and that all objects were mainly created before 2012, so, inherited by the previous government. A concrete example is my municipality of Rakovica, where there is a large number of facilities waiting for legislation. In addition to the problem of illegal construction, the entire settlements were built without infrastructure, without parking space, and today the pressure of citizens on the municipality to solve the problem created during the mayor Dragan Gilas and his tycoon. Of course, they built without any urban conditions and permits, so today it is known that not everyone could build, but only one who had an agreement with Gilas and DS, who until 2012 ruled my municipality of Rakovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47036	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Excuse me, colleague Djokic, according to Businessman Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47037	Chairman, I point out the breach of Rule 106(1) of the Rules of Procedure. - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. With all due respect, all of us MPs, i.e. those MPs who wrote amendments to the draft law on construction products, a colleague who spoke about legislation immediately before this breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Law on the Law of Objects is the law that comes after this. I'm probably hoping to hear about the amendments to that law, too. However, there is a completely missed theme here. You did not, Mr. Chairman, just warn your colleague that the debate on amendments to the bill of law comes later. Otherwise, we can all write down mini-literal compositions that would be called "my local self-government" and boast about what we've done. It is certainly for respect, whatever is done in some local self-government, but it becomes a practice in the Assembly, when it is a debate on any law, and only on the law first on the agenda and on Article 1 we are discussing every local self-government and on the successes of the local self-government. We spend all our time and never get to a much more important law, which is usually under this law that's under the first item of the agenda. So we will miss here to discuss in a quality way and discuss amendments to the Amendments to the Amendments Act and amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws. These are far more important topics in Serbia. I say, with all due respect to everything that has been done in Serbia in all local self-governments, we have early construction cancer, illegal construction, which was also in previous governments, but still today. We should talk seriously about this and that this debate takes days, not about this technical law, which I welcome, where we introduce standards to be competitive on the world market, but it's technical law and it needs to be explained and adopted anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47038	Thank you, colleague Gajic. Let me explain. counterpart Vera Jovanovic is an economist. I took a good look at what she wrote in her amendment. In its amendment, it speaks of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on the growth of economic resources. And in this context, she talks about the development of local self-government. I cannot be a censor here and defend people, to defend the MPs to speak and to give their assessment and their perception of the economic development and impact of this bill, to which the amendment has been tabled, at today's session. I really can't do that. I want everyone here to have the freedom to express themselves and to express what they think in the best interests of citizens, parliament and this state. I have no real reason, that woman is always very correct in speaking, very correct in discussing, very politely, and I don't want to censor anyone's speech at all, not even Vera Jovanovic's speech. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47039	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, here I am now convinced that previous advertising on the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done precisely to say something completely different, rather than the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I have submitted an amendment to improve the Construction Products Act, which I consider to be good and acceptable and which I will certainly vote for, as well as for the other laws of this set of laws. It is a completely new Construction Products Act, very important for our country's industry, which will regulate the construction product market and raise the quality of materials and all other construction products used in construction, from the construction of roads, bridges, residential and other buildings and buildings, and at the same time introduce healthy competition and lower product prices. That the time has come to pass one such law and raise the level of safety and the quality of construction products tells us numerous examples of damage and destruction of objects abroad, including us, attempts to save where it is not possible to save, where it is not necessary to save, lead to unwanted consequences, and unorthodox and tragedy. How bad is the installation of untested materials and products in construction is, in fact, the best thing to see when unforeseen situations happen, like elemental accidents... I'm sorry, Chairman, I think someone's sick there. I think they're always so sick.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47040	Go ahead, buddy, go ahead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47041	So, like natural disasters, fires, floods, earthquakes, etc., where, first and foremost, those objects in which unquality and unsuitable materials are installed are affected. Or, let's remember the case with us, like the famous New Belgrade smelly buildings, where an inadequate, unverified chemical means were used during construction, which turned out to be the result of long-term evaporation and an unsustainable odor of people's lives in such facilities. If we had such a law then, the use of such materials in construction would have been disabled, and so on. The smelly buildings wouldn't even come. Not to list cases where in fires on some buildings with catastrophic consequences and with human victims, unfortunately, the cause was also inadequate construction products and other materials embedded in these facilities. Construction products are very specific precisely because their performances and characteristics come into expression, and thus the quality difference, only when they are installed in buildings and when in certain conditions they need to resist different forms of burden and external influence. For construction products their design, visual appearance or method of packaging, i.e. packaging, play a less important role than other product types, but therefore their invisible characteristics and characteristics in different conditions of use must be crucial and determined when making a decision on installation into construction facilities. For the first time, Serbia will receive legislation that regulates the area, and all countries in the environment already have such laws. That's why unfounded concerns are whether we're ready or not to introduce a law like this, because it's about time. In addition, domestic legislation will also be harmonised in this area with European legislation, making the Serbian construction industry and domestic certification bodies in this area much more competitive on the European market. In any case, such a law was long needed, as it would allow free flow of goods, remove technical barriers in trade, protect consumers, allow access to the international and European markets, and therefore the proposal for this law should be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47042	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47043	Thank you, Your Honor. All over Serbia, we see new investments, new investments, highways, bridges, not only national investments but also foreign ones. Thus, as an economist, my fellow economist Kovacevic said, how much construction affects GDP growth and how important these investments are to us. Dear Minister, you've spoken to us and told us what you're planning to build. We see how much and we know all of us, what part of the government, how important investment is, how important infrastructure is in general, that a foreign investor invests in our country is our most important highway. I want to see, as is being built and done in Belgrade, that in every city from Serbia, there is a highway and that in every city we have conditions for new investments, for new factories, that both Prepolje and Priboj and Nova Varoš and every city can be praised by the highway that connects with its city. I live in Belgrade and see how much our Belgrade has changed over the past two years. We're looking at how many new projects are planned. We heard the mayor of Belgrade was planning to build two more bridges and that, not only by two bridges, we would have two new tunnels and a subway. At every step of the way, walking around Belgrade, we see cranes. I wish colleagues who are not here today and for days, who have criticised all this, if they are now criticising our authority would be nicer to Belgrade if they were building at that time, as they are now criticizing. My colleague Aleksandar Markovic provided some information for last year and last year, how many building permits we issued only in Belgrade. I know, and I want the citizens of Serbia to know that you have together your ministry, the city government and government contributed to the issue of this kind of license in Belgrade alone. It's a joint work of all of you. So just last year 2017, it was issued for 1,024,000 square meters of building permits. This year, with the conclusion of September 30th, construction permits were issued for over 750,000 square meters. Location conditions for over a million squares only in 2018. It is currently active around 1,450 sites, but not only of state, but of private ones. As I said, if now those who are so good at criticizing were building it would be different for our country now. We're aware of how much investment there was when they had power. I'm not just talking about what the state was building, I'd rather have any of them bring out, except for the state they were building, which more investment they had in our country for them when they ruled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47044	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47045	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, as usual when amendments are on the agenda, my amendments relate to sustainable growth and precisely to the Government of Aleksandr Vukic and this Government, are all working on the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, and this law is part of this very sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, because one of the objectives of sustainable development is just sustainable cities and communities. It writes here – to make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resistant and sustainable. Through this law and through everything that this ministry does, we are going towards that goal. I think that out of the main objectives of sustainable development, which this government respects and this president of the state is doing, we are doing and we are creating today, and we are thinking about the future. That's the key. So we work and create today, we think about the future. All these paths, all we're building right now is a creation for the future, for our future, for the future of our children. I'm not going to talk about the Moravia Corridor today, or any other things, or the Shipmen I mentioned in the debate in principle. I'll say that's how it says that, apart from the fact that in the city of the King, we're doing two factories right now, we're thinking about the other part, the future, we're thinking about young people. You, Minister, know perfectly well, because we have repeatedly visited that location where the construction of the pool will begin. Here's the end of the change of project documentation. The pool will start working next year. Today the work on reconstruction and construction of the athletic stadium began. Behind that is the Athletic Union. So, we're building, we're working, and we've found a location for a future football stadium that hopefully goes into construction next year. So the results are exactly what I said – the future, we work and we think about the future. What I'm going to ask you, and what I did today in the break with my colleague Vesovic on the other hand, who is present here, talk about a problem we inherited. There was a Kamijordor Bridge at the exit from Kraljev to Kragujevac, and it is part of a future tour of the Moravia Corridor, where there is now a loop for Vrnjačka Banja, for Kragujevac and Kraljevo. They did the bridge, they did the loop, but they never did the lighting. Here, there's been accidents for 10 years. People travelling from Belgrade or abroad do not know where Vranjačka Banja is, where the King is and in the darkness they cannot even see, although it is neatly and beautifully marked. I'd like to ask you to at least light that part up. That's what I'm going to ask you. What today was a discussion on the other side, which is usually empty, what hurt me... I will thank you here on behalf of 50 highly educated people who, at this moment, are in all the "Leonia" factories in Europe, Serbia, for training and for those 100 women from the Kings, my fellow citizens, who are currently in training at "Eurotaja", I will thank you on behalf of seven and a half thousand future workers. So, five thousand in "Leonies" and two and a half thousand in "Eurotai" to President Vukic for everything he's done, what he's said and what he's done and he's doing well, and they, so I'll tell him—president, those who know you're better than them and don't mind, just do what you do. I'll answer to an MP who's not here again. I'll use what someone's misusing again some blue blood from the circle of two, which is a disgrace to the gourd and the splinter. It's my pride and honor to be a part of it and to be an heir and to be squished and that freak. 100 years ago, and that goon and that freak also released the part where the blue-blood gentleman, who looks like the heritage of the value of the heritage of Sekula Drljević and his countryman, came from somewhere around Niksic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47046	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47047	Dear President-in-Office, honourable Vice-President of the Government, honourable fellow Members, we are discussing amendments to the Construction Products Act and my pleasure to bring it into line with EU standards and laws, creating an opportunity for our construction producers to do so according to EU standards and export to the EU area. I fully support the bill and you as a ministry, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you deserve only praise and congratulations for what you did in the construction operation, and above all when it comes to road infrastructure. I'm from central Serbia, but I look forward to every mile of highway and every mile of regional road, wherever it is built on our country's territory. I said I came from the Smederevska Palanka municipality and I thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for helping us establish our functions as much as possible after the devasting, the total devasting, which we had from the previous government, as the city now fully revived, got water and electricity, which is the most important thing, and in this government helped. What matters is, you built highways. Before you came, we only had Corridor 10 to Nis, and now we can't count the roads, and the highways and the regional roads you've built. I have to say as the man who comes from Smederevska Palanka, that we're between two corridors, we're not even on Corridor 10, we're still away from Corridor 11, but in 1998, we were trying to make the shortest line that's 11 kilometers on the Lozovic Chest, but there's a loop to be made. We've built six kilometers of it. The highway would be useful for building facilities beside it, for investors to come. It is also useful for the Municipality of the Great Plan, because the loop would be on the territory of the Municipality of the Great Plan and they would get space for another industrial zone, which is very important. The loop to build, we know, costs a lot. The budget stands well, you see, you know the priorities, if it can be built further, and now it's at the level of the idea project, you put it on. What I would ask you to do is to train us and make it a functional path, as we already have in this Serbia, is the Palanka-Mladenovac road, which is our fastest and shortest connection to Belgrade. He is quite good, he may need some change on the territory of Smederjevska Palanka municipality, because in 2006 and 2007, he was reconstructed, but on the territory of the Municipality of Mladenvac he is narrow, with a disturbed profile and unsatisfactory, is not what he is from loop to Mladenovac. That's what we need most, and what I think next year you can put into the budget and do. That could be ten kilometers of rehab. This gives great chances because the road does not go through populated places, not one inhabited place passes, but next to the settlements. Each one is three to four miles [3 to 4 km] away. There is room for investors to come and I ask you to train it and bring it closer to Palanca Belgrade, which is the goal of many people who now, when we do not have enough work, when we do not have in Gosa seven thousand employees, as we once had, but less than a thousand, we need investors now. We used to build our own factories in other places, but we need one direction, closest to Belgrade, to make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47048	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47049	I'm glad we can talk now, when we talk about the Smederjev Palace, that we can talk now about roads and some other kind of investment, because in that period when Smederevski Palanka ruled Kene and his like, then we wondered if we'd have enough water and whether the city would be able to function at least with its most basic functions. It was good for them, the city was bad. Fortunately, they no longer rule, so now we can talk about investing in roads. So, as far as I know, we're going to have a joint meeting about the Smederjev Palanka. Everything we can do together, and at least somewhere to change, and somewhere to rehabilitate the roads, we'll definitely start. Some of these two will begin in 2019, but depending on the state of the documentation, we'll agree on what it is. I'm glad that Smederevska Palanka slowly, step by step, comes out of that misery and horror in which he left one Ken.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47050	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here, the word is Aleksandra Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47051	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates and respected fellow MPs, when it comes to the proposals of the law on construction products, would point out the most important objective, which is to create conditions for construction products to meet the structures they are being built in, as well as their competitiveness on the market itself. Raising the quality of construction products is very important, especially now, today, when Serbia records a record number of investments. Serbia today is a major construction site, thank God, and we are witnessing that there are more and more open factories, open bridges, open schools, kindergartens. What makes me particularly happy is the future opening of the Moravski Corridor, because Vranjačka Banja is just on the way to the Moravski Corridor and I hope that Vranjačka Banja, which today applies to one of the most developed spas in Serbia, will continue to advance, precisely because of the opening of the Moravski Corridor. As far as the legislation regarding this law is concerned, these new regulations provide an additional incentive for the development of construction, which is one of the most important industries, without which there would be no development of these other economic and social categories. What I would like to point out is that this law, in my opinion, is very important, gives a lot to these very new innovative products, which has never been laid down in the law until now. I'd like to point out his very great significance around here somewhere. At the very end, I would point out that the debate on this law shows that Serbia and in this area are becoming a modern and orderly state, thanks above all to President Aleksandr Vukic and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47052	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP of the People's Republic of Primarius Dr. Milovan Krinakapic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Dr. Krinakapic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47053	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, as the general regulations for us so far have not been regulated on the construction product market, the need for the construction and adoption of the law on construction products has arisen. Another important reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with the obligation to bring domestic legislation into line with EU rules. In particular, given that EU rules in this area are regularly changed and complemented, while the legal system of the Republic of Serbia remains without a solution and is completely out of line. Consistent with European standards creates trust and facilitates access to European markets. This law will regulate the conditions for placing on the market construction products, placing a sign of conformity on construction products, as well as the obligations of companies in the manufacture, sale and distribution of them. Therefore, any construction product found in the sale will have to follow the performance declaration in writing or electronic form. Also on the material will have to be a Serbian sign of compliance, which is defined by law, must be visible, readable and indelible. Inspectors will have the authority to react unless the products have adequate safety clearance. Simply put, every construction product made in Serbia will have to have a clear declaration and a sign that it is produced in accordance with international and domestic standards. So over 1,000 different construction products built in Serbia, such as doors and windows, construction blocks, water pipes, will finally be clearly declared, which so far has been the case. The quality of a product shall be determined through conformity assessment, which means checking that products, services, materials, systems and personnel comply with the requirements of standards, regulations and other specifications. The assessment of consistency benefits manufacturers, service providers, health users and consumer safety. By passing this law, among other things, there is a basis for meeting the requirements of a competitive common European market and it is the only correct approach, especially if we want to make fundamental systemic progress. This law encourages the development of our country. This development is in one great rise to the joy of the people of Serbia, and unfortunately a small number of people, who are bothered by every success of our country and who are serving various lies and bribes, to devalue our successes. It further encourages us to work and succeed. The Serbian Progressive Party, President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are taking safe steps forward to ensure a better and safer life for the current and future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47054	Thank you. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Dr. Pavlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47055	Thank you, Vice President. We know that the projected GDP growth of Serbia for 2018 is 3%, and we know that GDP growth of 4.5% in the first six months of this year has been achieved in the first six months of this year, and that in Serbia the highest growth rate for the first six months of the last 10 years. Based on a statement issued last month by our Prime Minister Ana Brnabic at the Conference of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development of the OCD, we also know that by the end of 2018 the total GDP growth will exceed 4%, while public debt will fall below 60%. Serbia has finally become a country with stable economic growth and stable public finances. Whether someone liked it or not, most of all thanks to the responsible policy led by our government and our President Alexander Vukic. Respected Serbian citizens, Serbia has also recorded significantly higher economic growth. Serbia is 10th in the field of issuing electronic building permits and Serbia is today a major construction site. The main reason for the adoption of this law, with an increase in the quality of construction facilities and the volume of exports of construction products, is to comply with European regulations. This will meet Serbia's obligations under negotiating Chapter 1. Regarding this point of the agenda, I can't help but remind all of us that the biggest contribution of GDP growth has been made by almost all manufacturing sectors, and primarily service and construction activities. One of the reasons why this law is passed is that European standards in this area are being helped by our construction firms because our domestic legislation in this area has been inconsistencies with the European ones. The Serbian construction industry, as well as the work of certification houses, could not be competitive on the EU market for years. Apart from removing technical barriers in the trade in construction products, this bill is also a prerequisite for free flow of goods, i.e. access to the EU's internal market of around 500 million consumers. I think it's more than enough for SNS to support this and all the other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47056	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47057	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, this bill will for the first time edit the area in construction in a unique way, also edit the market better, then raise the level of quality of materials and make domestic producers competitive on the foreign market of great importance. We also provide construction with facilities and infrastructure as an important segment of our country's economic development. How much the state of Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, has understood the importance of building and investing in infrastructure, we see it as a priority and key to our country's development. The aim of the Serbian state, the government of the Republic of Serbia, is for the territory of the Republic of Serbia to be a network of corridors and vessels for this part of Europe. If this were true, it tells us that among the most important and significant projects Serbia is implementing in the area of infrastructure, there is not one that is not of regional importance. In addition, Serbia has become an economic and political leader in the region. Of course, this kind of policy-making has not remained undetected, so with already existing, more and more foreign investors and the world's largest companies who want to invest their capital in Serbia and help our country's economic development. This is seen, above all, in the creation of new jobs and the reduction of unemployment, and we all remember that during the rule of these experts and experts from the Alliance for Serbia, unemployment was 28.29, close to 30%, and now below 12%. Also, the volume of passenger and goods transport has been increased, and tourism revenues have been increased multiplely. These are the facts. That is why Serbian citizens do not fall for lies and deception, primarily Dragan Gilas, who, when coming to power, reported a car, an apartment from his wife and 70,000 euros, and only a few years later, reported assets of more than 25m euros. Well, so, there are a lot of them in that series, all the way up to the experts of quasi librarians, for which colleagues from the Chapanese library say he didn't even know how to write a booklet for the first class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47058	Thank you, Mr. Prince. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47059	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 with an emphasis on underdeveloped areas since I come from such areas. Otherwise, the adoption of this law will give us the opportunity to bring all our legal regulations into line for the quality of our goods, the building. We are witnessing that our tendency is to develop our construction through investment in infrastructure, whether it's a railway, whether it's a passenger traffic or some other traffic, but this is very important precisely because we are now going to have the opportunity to make it easier for certain companies that are doing these products. By the way, I'm from Svrlig, and there's a firm in Svrlig that works exactly the concrete thresholds, which are now being built in all of Serbia, but also beyond Serbia's borders. So I call this company "India-Svrlig", I am not promoting this company, but I want to say that there is a company with us that employs over 350 workers, which really works for quality concrete thresholds and all the basic elements needed in the railway. By the way, this company has been with us since 2006, it's the Svrljig Machine Industry, which has been doing these same products for the railways. This company really gives us a great opportunity, using all the materials and raw materials from our neighborhood, out of our environment, hiring our people. Which means that this law will have an ever-increasing opportunity to employ people, to be more quality products, and I must say that this company has all the necessary ISO standards and HPO certificates, which is a sign that it exports everywhere, in all EU countries, exports and beyond the EU borders, exports to Russia, and it participates in tenders everywhere and works for reconstruction of the railway line. By the way, this company that works with us is interested, and this company wants to assist in the reconstruction of the railway that is done by Nis, via Svrljag, Književec, Zaječar, according to Negotin, Prahov, and towards Bor. So, this railroad is very important to all of us, as we say, to the blood vessel for the development of eastern Serbia. I expect that in the next period we will finally next year, we agreed to move forward with the reconstruction of that railroad, we also have indicators of doing so, some of the acts came to us in our municipality. Otherwise, the distinguished Deputy Prime Minister, the professor, I would like to invite you to come to Svrljig, to visit together the company that produces the concrete elements needed for the railway, for the railway, to visit all that has been done with us, and it has been done quite a long way to the Old Mountain, the local roads, and all this thanks to the initiative of our President Vukic and the Government, which he has led, and now our prime ministers. Otherwise, I call on all my fellow Members to vote in favour of my amendments, to give support to undeveloped areas, because that is the only way we will have the chance to develop our Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47060	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? Dr. Granny, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47061	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, On the proposal for a law on construction products, submitted by the Government, I submit an amendment that reads - Article 1. The draft law on construction products adds item 2 which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the improvement of the financial base of local self-government. The main reason for the adoption of this law is, above all, the harmonisation of the rules on production, distribution and marketing of construction products, while raising their quality with EU rules. Of course we are doing this not only because of the mere harmonisation of the rules with the EU, but because of us, our construction operations. The Construction Products Act will allow manufacturers to be more competitive on the European market and thus provide significant foreign exchange revenue in their business. Most importantly, what is perhaps most important is to raise the quality and strict control of the building objects' products. They will be safer in themselves, both for life and for the health of our population. Given that several tens of thousands of buildings are being built in Serbia today and that there are no local self-government without a construction site in the area of housing, road and municipal infrastructure, certainly this law will achieve overall development of Serbia, and in particular improve the financial base of local self-government through the view of increased consumption, employment of labour, etc. Finally, as a doctor, I need to look again at the health that makes one of the most important factors in the rapid and quality development of society. I can't help but recall many situations when it was disrupted by installation into residential buildings of inadequate and uncontrolled construction products and construction materials. Let's just remember what happened. New Belgrade smelly buildings, and such buildings were all over Serbia. In voting day, SNS MPs will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47062	Thank you, fellow Grandmother. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The People's MP, Marjana Marash, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47063	When we talk about construction products, I can't help but mention the case. stinky buildings in New Belgrade. There are two buildings in Block 72, which were built by the Serbia Building Directorate, and in which walls found phenol, a substance that not only releases an unpleasant smell, but is also carcinogenic and therefore extremely dangerous to people's health. A total of 199 families were evicted from two buildings and their housing issue was resolved in a truly satisfactory way. By most of these faces moving to two newly built identical buildings. However, the question arises why are two buildings with toxic substances not destroyed? You initially announced the destruction of these facilities, so that it would then give up and the Institute of Nuclear Science from Vinci was hired to repair the problem. The problem was reportedly resolved early in 2017, and in January of this year, Serbia's Construction Directorate launched a public procurement for one of these two buildings, which, according to information from the competition documentation, includes purchase, delivery, installation and installation of home and office furniture, equipment and household appliances. There is also a reception area, entrance hall, cleaning area and office space for publishing. It has been reported that the building has 28 garages, 48 two-bedroom apartments, 26 three-bedroom apartments and two three-bedroom apartments. At a meeting of MZ representatives and representatives of the Serbian Civil Directorate, housing was said to be equipped for publication, but it was also said that it was not planned to open a hostel in buildings. There are two problems with that. The first problem is it seems to really open the hostel. I don't know if you've been informed that the apartments, whose number and squares are listed in the call for public procurement, that the apartments have been blocked, that bathrooms are being built in the halls of these buildings, and that the building is equipped with the furniture of Matis. The question is, who will be staying in that building and who is being set up for this job? Now we don't know if it's true or not, the story is that the facility is being prepared for the accommodation of migrants, so it would be good to hear if it's true. Also, citizens living in nearby facilities are upset that they are not officially shown evidence that the facilities have been successfully cleaned from toxic matter. Another question is, why was the owner of a company that used toxic materials in the construction not guilty? It is an Eco-second company owned by a family company, Mr Neboja Atanakovic, former president of the Union of Employers of Serbia, who was also the former vice-president of the SPO, who was an MP in the Serbian Parliament in three terms, was chairman of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, and was once president of the Vozdovac municipality, and a member of the Social-Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47064	Thank you. Professor Zorana Mihajlović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47065	As far as the pre-purpose buildings you mentioned in the Serbian Building Directorate didn't inform us about it. If they've done any kind of alterations within the buildings themselves, they can and only have to work with permission. But before that, let me just say that every sort of recovery works primarily at the Vinca Institute, according to the highest standards. Then when it's all over then we'll get information for them. As far as this second one is concerned, we will ask for information and check with the Serbian Building Directorate. As far as the company's owner is concerned, as soon as the case took place, the Ministry filed that criminal complaint. What we've been informed by the D.A. that it's very difficult to press charges for something that practically didn't exist in standards. So in some other buildings, that shell was doing its job in the right way, it's not here anymore. We don't know the fate of criminal charges, but what was up to us, we really did the same moment, and maybe this law in that sense will help us to have no such situation in the future. As for the tenants, as you yourself said, they are in the new buildings that were built. It certainly shouldn't have happened, but on the other hand, not in any way the Civil Directorate and the Government couldn't influence such a thing, we just couldn't know that something like that was possible at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47066	Thank you. The People's MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go, Dr. Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47067	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Article 2. The bill defines otherwise better terms used in this law, and I have tried with some more words ahead of the definition that you have suggested to strengthen the definition of these terms. Otherwise, it's wonderful and it's okay, it's your opinion, it's mine that it might be better if this was given. Otherwise, in the discussion, we heard about everything today, and about Serbia's path to the EU, and about the successes of the current government, and about the failures and how you say the crimes of the former government, and that could have made me feel like this or that. But what I think has completely marked this discussion is the mass of insults we've heard from this other side where the government sits. Now I ask you, Madam Minister, since you asked me, do I humanly support the statement of the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvora, Mr Nog, and from that statement I have publicly fenced myself, I, Madam Minister, ask you, do you humanly support a statement that came from the authorities that the opposition is oligophrene? As a health worker, I have to tell you that oligophrenia is a mental retardation of mental retardation and weakness, that according to the IQ, it's divided into three degrees: obesity, imbecileity and idiotism, so, Madam Minister, I'm waiting for you to tell me if you support this, chairor, unfortunately, you gave an explanation yesterday or didn't look at the stenograms, you probably weren't there, you were probably prevented by other jobs. This kind of insult that has been made against the opposition and against all those people who have these diseases in their family, and to pass without warning, remains a stain in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47068	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. I haven't been able to look at it, and I apologize to you, if that's what I'm saying, but I haven't been able to look at it. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament MP Zvonimir Stević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a colleague of Despotović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47069	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this draft law on construction products will not improve the situation when it comes to building buildings and the very quality of construction in the Republic of Serbia, without speaking of legalisation itself over the past three years, of listed 2,050,000 buildings, and currently legalized 183,000. As for the construction inspection and its transition to the authority of cities, the trust of the exercise of inspection supervision in the area of building facilities up to 800 m2, as well as the construction of facilities for which the construction permit solution is issued by the city administration, a number of problems in practice are opened. First of all, the idea of amending the law on planning and construction is to speed up the procedure and transparency of all procedures, which is in direct contrast with the decision to centralise the construction inspection, while in practice it is difficult to exercise direct control of large territory, specifically for the city of Belgrade, from one position and the Department for the City's City Administration's inspection tasks, in terms of knowledge of the problems and terrain of each municipality in particular. Then, the next problem that also follows the construction inspection is that you will not be able to see earlier inspection procedures in municipalities, because the objects are physically located in municipalities, so that you know exactly what is involved and what is involved. It is necessary to carry out an insight into the subject in municipal bases, and supervision will be carried out by another body, in this case building inspection within the city. There is still a growing problem that there is no or very bad communication of construction inspection with the Department of Legalisation, which only informs municipalities that the investor has something legal, but does not supply any document or copy, or a copy of the approval, so that building inspectors can have insight into what it is doing on the ground. If that's not there, there's been a lot of abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47070	Thank you. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dr Daniela Stojadinović submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47071	Madam Minister, this amendment concerns a declaration that will stand in the production of construction material in Serbia. We have no doubt that our producers will be absolutely right as they have so far to declare what the composition is. You know, the question is being raised and we started the topic yesterday, and what is what is being imported into Serbia, because it is not absolutely right that what is on the declarations of various construction material products coming from EU countries is authentic and on the Serbian market. I can't imagine that the famous enterprises in Serbia, like the Arabs, yesterday we mentioned "Bekament", there we have "Shumadi granite", so we have the production of a student stone that is famous all over the world, that these people will be dealing with some forgeries. This law is one book version of the regulations on how it should be arranged, so that it can be found on the market. The question is, what is your ministry, what has the Serbian government done to allow these Serbian companies to be found on the European market? It's no secret that these companies, and many of them have barely survived survival. Those micro-enterprises you also mentioned were nickels from some of the family companies from certain credit lines. Why does the government of the Republic of Serbia, the guarantee fund of this country, and we don't have a Serbian development bank like it exists in China, in Russia, help one swing be given to Serbian construction, because this is how we come into the situation that it will be a mere survival, there will be certain investment projects that they are doing, now it's okay when it comes to Chinese, Russian, Azerbaijani companies. We are absolutely against the arrival of Bechtela, which will use any material and build this section of which it has been said about, because it is the direct lobby of the American Embassy in correlation with you personally and the ministry, but the question is how will these companies and who will enable them to do so, because it is nice to say – you will do excellent business in European standards, but how to find yourself in these markets. I don't want to make another ad to those companies that I mentioned, because I come from the forest area, but be sure, because I know these people personally that they've made it possible for themselves to go to those markets, free competition, you'll say, free passage, all that's true, but what we're going to do and how we're going to defile someone who's supposed to do it in the future and get back those lost companies that used to be recognizable. The second thing I want to ask is, when I'm talking about this, and the question is, are we gonna have more time to answer the so-called. construction waste. The assessment of experts was one conference last year that Serbia lost about 500m euros in construction waste. This area is not organized at all and it is one resource that may be less known to anyone, and on the other hand, there are colleagues who are from the medical profession, and unprofessional and any recycling of construction waste leads to increased concern for the health of our inhabitants, no matter what city they are in. These are all the questions you should have an emergency response through clear laws, through the potentials that any of these businessmen can have. It is easy that, I really looked at myself like all fellow MPs from the SRS, especially when we wrote amendments, it says here, and that's why we stress, the Serbian declaration, the Serbian product, do we want it authentically to be ours? All the countries around us have passed such a law that has been unified and which is in line with EU requirements.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47072	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47073	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I would not agree with distinguished opposition colleagues when they say that this law will not contribute to the quality of construction in the Republic of Serbia in the future, above all I think this is an extremely important law and should exist in our system, regardless of how we finally adopt it, I believe that in the coming period as a result of the application of this law, as well as a number of laws, will suffer certain corrections and alignments. I'm a member of the 2nd that we're discussing today, which defines the concepts, that is, the concept in this law. In Article 2 paragraph 1 point 12, it is proposed, in fact, it is said that – a harmonised standard is a European standard adopted on the basis of the European Commission's request for application in harmonised EU legislation. I suggested that this position, or point of view, be changed: "A harmonised standard is a European standard for which it is applied as a legal course of the EU, which is incorporated into domestic legislation". In fact, I believe that the formulation that you have proposed, perhaps not the most appropriate and that standards can be defined as mandatory, but simply this verb – requires, in this sense, there is some context of the command, so maybe you can consider it one more time and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47074	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand some colleagues from the opposition who criticise this law from their programming goals. However, our harmonisation of legislation with countries in the environment and with EU countries is not because of Serbia's membership in the EU, but rather that part of the legislation that has positive consequences for the entire Serbian economy is being applied in Serbia. The Law on Standardisation of Construction Products itself is very important, because they are not only important producers. In the end, users or consumers of these construction products are important. By adopting this law, we come into a situation that no longer can any producer of any component or part that, thanks to relatively low price, sells something that is not standard, is not high-quality and thus damages the citizen of Serbia who builds his building to live in, and enables unconscious investors to create residential buildings that will sell to someone and buy cheap material to earn as much as possible, and sells these same apartments as if they were made of first-class material. However, the state is also a consumer of these products. Here, I'll do it on one occasion to explain how important it is. For example, in 2001 and 2002, a reconstruction of the highway was made from the Požarec payment ramp to the Potok Bubanj and back. Imagine what that highway reconstruction looks like during the DOS government, 2001 and 2002, when the reconstruction of that highway is done by Chuma? Can you imagine? Here's a convicted criminal, best friend of the DOS government to reconstruct the highway without public procurement, no standardisation, no project, allegedly some revolutionary technology. Surveillance? Imagine at that time that some surveillance was allowed to tell Chumet – the reconstruction of the highway was not done properly? It would probably end up in bags, because it was a period when there were no laws in Serbia, or there were, but they were not applied, and Serbia was not protecting its citizens and its officials, but criminals and mobsters. The fact that I'm right tells the fact that the reconstruction of the highway, so it provides a smooth traffic flow for the next 20 years, minimum. After only three or four years, a reconstruction of the same stock was done, and that didn't work. Those who know and who use that part of the highway have experienced that in 2010 or 2011 those cracks on the highway are being patched up with bitumen. So, some equipment puts an ordinary worker with a brander and he goes slowly and patches up the highway. Now, these were the reconstructions of the highway, while the highway and that section of the highway, finally, in 2015, were not done properly. Now that car is the way to go and it's standing there. He can't believe he's checking it out. But what was I gonna say? To avoid more criminals and mobsters in any way, some wonders are allowed to do some public works, and I don't think that miracle can happen for the next 30, 40 years, that, if anything, at least what they charge and do right. Until then, the DOS friends are left with only some tycoons to invent new ones, and protect those who brought them to power in 2001, perhaps even some who don't remember, were little, but that's their problem, were their fathers along with those tycoons, were their fathers with Chumet and not to mention everyone with whom, that they would never be in a situation to do anything, in any way, harm to the citizens of Serbia, and even when they were doing some reconstruction of the highway.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47076	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47077	Article 2 The draft law on construction products is essentially not a legal norm and does not prescribe anything. It's kind of an interpretation of the concepts that are contained in this law and our position, principled, and we always suggest that it be deleted because we think it unnecessarily burdens the legal text. Otherwise, the Construction Products Act is bad, and in particular, I'm going to say what's the point, which is why it's bad, because we don't trust in its application. It is bad because the law did not prescribe who it is, whether an individual, whether an institution, whether a commission, whether an inspector, who is a natural or legal person who will say – that this building material meets certain standards, this one does not meet? This must lead to suspicion of the whole law, and it can always lead to abuse. We've talked about it several times these days, and it's a really serious remark. What exactly do we think you wanted with these laws? Let's not be confused. We don't mind, we've already said, that this matter is arranged, that construction products are according to certain standards, with a certain quality, etc., but what do we think is behind this, and what is the government's intention, and above all, the Minister of Justice? Since Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and her and her personal contacts with this Kyle Scott, the American ambassador, we think that this law will slowly undetected that the largest investors, the Chinese, are actually squeezed from our construction market, and the Gods of Russia and Azerbaijan are also in a significant place. How is that gonna happen? By some building material, let's say, that it's prescribed to have certain performances and then that someone comes along, no one knows who yet knows who, and does, I don't know, a Chinese firm or gets a brick like that, and that one fits all the conditions, and then that someone invisible, behind the curtain says, well, it can't brick those dimensions, it has to be 0.1 millimeter smaller. So it's absolutely possible. So, what happens then? Then you say or you go get a loan, so get those bricks 0.01 centimeters less or you get these from the American Bechtel, which already has and for which we actually made this law. There, that's the point, as much as you're spinning your head. We want citizens to hear this, first of all, but to hear the gods and the MPs who will vote for this. When this comes up as a topic and as an affair don't be that you didn't know we didn't warn you. Speaking of "Bechtela", you know, first of all we have to remind the public that you, Minister Mihajlovic, have committed a scandal of unprecedented proportions by allowing Kyle Scott, next to you in the government building, to recognise the false state of Kosovo without your reaction. It's something that in every serious state would cause either the government's reconstruction and your shift, or you'd figure out a mistake by yourself, and you'd resign. This second is obviously not going to happen, and we're still expecting this first. You have tried in public before, and this "Bechtel" which is otherwise in a very bad voice, and we have talked about that they worked 30% more in both Romania and Croatia, which is why the Croatian minister resigned. But what's the big deal here? First of all, because of the public and because of a small number of your contemporaries, who love America very much, Bechtel is not a state-owned firm. The relationship with Bechtel had nothing to do with the United States and there was no need for the ambassador to come because you signed a memorandum with a private firm. You know very well, I suppose you know, that in America almost nothing is state. Do you know that the Federal Reserve of the Central Bank of America is privately owned? So there's nothing state-owned there and this relationship has nothing to do with it, the Bechtel relationship has nothing to do with the United States or some US state. It's also common knowledge that nothing is done in all of America without commission, there's no good day without commission, it's just common and normal, so it's normal for their companies who come to us to work that way and that's one of the reasons why you don't like Chinese, Russians, Azerbaijani, or them, or their companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47078	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47079	As you for the sake of Serbian citizens have brought forth a series of lies, so I, for the sake of the Serbian citizens to say that everything the Serbian radicals say, is mostly half-truth or complete falsehood, to be a complete lie in Serbian terms. But I wouldn't argue with you, Mrs. Radet, perhaps, as I said once before, you'll overcome yourself from this summer's tweets. Anyway, let me read you a question, or answer a question about this particular law on construction products. So, what you asked, first of all all all construction products have their own ID card, have a declaration, have a body that evaluates them. So everything we do with this law is precisely to help our construction operation, or our construction product manufacturers. I think it's an attempt to get some, probably media, to get people to see you, to hear you, I don't know, to talk about this law being made for anyone, I think it's really wrong. Sometimes laws have really been made for various manufacturers, performers, etc., but that time has really changed. It's not happening anymore. But in any case, Article 11 makes it very clear – the use of construction products bearing a Serbian sign of conformity cannot be disabled by the conditions laid down by the public authority holder when the performances mentioned in the performance declaration meet the requirements for appropriate use. It all writes well and if you really wanted to present it to the citizens of Serbia, you would have done it. All the other stories about whether I should be replaced, not replaced, reconstructed, whether I'm American, like this kind of man, I really think that's, I'm going to say, in this high house, lies, and if it wasn't a tall home, I'd say stupid things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47080	Thank you. Replica, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47081	A request for a shift from Zorana Mihajlovic can be stupid for her, but it can't be a lie. It's absolutely true, we've been looking for it for months, and it's always very argumentative. The law we're talking about today is something that will be the topic of the affair very soon, as is now with the Bechtel affair, as you've made 10 million possible for Kyle Scott, the question is how much you've taken from it, and we'll find out very quickly and we'll let the public know about it. What bothers you is that Serbian radicals are looking for your solution, that's your problem, but you have no right to say so. You can hold a conference, take your personal photographer, which you normally do, to invite your personal newspapers, those Springers, to publish, what you always do, to hire a personal hairdresser and a cosmetologist, who comes to your house every morning, which you always do. You say - I only speak here to be heard and seen. I am a national MP and very active, I speak, I express the views of the SRS, I warn the citizens of Serbia of any illicit operation, any member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you are the most relevant, because you are the most active and therefore doing these illicit actions. I don't need to mention you, as you said, that someone would see me and hear me, and unlike you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, me here whoever sees and hears me in every other place, sees me in the wardrobe I bought with my money, with the makeup I bought with my money, with the perfume I bought my money, I didn't spend money on the government of Serbia card, like you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47082	Thank you, colleagues. The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Natas Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47083	You were obliged to act under article 107 and 27, Mr Arsic, because Minister Mihajlovic roughly abused her presence as the government's authorised representative under these laws at this session when she directly addressed the SRS parliamentary group in response, to say that we do not know what we are saying, that we are delivering semi-information, untrue, etc. Whether we are telling the truth or not, it will be assessed by the citizens of Serbia. The truth is determined elsewhere and will be determined, especially in Mrs. Mihajlovic's case. Mr Arsic, because of the public, the dignity of this Assembly, is mentioned company Behtel, who just signed a memorandum when Zorana Mihajlovic came into a position with them to do so. As early as 2010, they came in, then the second minister was, I'm not going to mention the name of a fellow minority party and the American ambassador also lobbyed for the company, then Mary Warlick. Are we telling the truth? We're telling the truth. Did the company wait for Zorana Mihajlovic's arrival to do so? Yes, it is. Is that why Zorana Mihajlovic was set up to be influenced by the US Embassy? Yes, it is. These are the truths, these are the facts, and that Mrs. Mihajlovic is nervous, because she has failed for all this time, because she has neither such authority nor influence in the SNS nor in the public to be Vukic instead of Vukic, it is her problem and do not pass her anxiety on to the MPs who speak for the interests of the people and the state, which are Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47084	My colleague Jovanovic... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Protect us from such ministers, please. ) counterpart Mihajlović responded to the discussion of fellow Members of the Parliament of Ms. Verica Radete and I think the chairman should not protect the participants in the discussion. Right on line, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47085	As for anxiety, I'm not yelling and I'm not nervous, but you just yelled, so I'm going to ask the chairman to protect me from you because we need to talk civilisedly. When you mention that "Bechtel" and the memorandum again, then here is the Serbian public, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the text of the memorandum and authorised the minister of traffic to sign the memorandum. Prior to that, the government of the Republic of Serbia also adopted an agreement on the development of infrastructure between the US government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and was signed in front of the country's president, Aleksandr Vukic. That's one thing. Also, whether or not, and really, you know, sometimes a man says I don't really need to argue with you at all, but whether I have a cosmetologist, whether I have a hairdresser, whether I have, what else you said, whether someone comes to my house, you're wonderfully informed, you're not entirely, but you're perfectly informed. But I really don't think it's a topic, and the subject is amendments to the Construction Products Act. This is how we work, among other things, with the American company and whether we're going to work, etc., is the same way we're working with both the Russian Federation and Turkey, which we've now signed an agreement with the "Tashiapi" construction firm, as you know, highway to Bosnia and Herzegovina and rehabilitation of roads in the Russian area, as well as with the People's Republic of China, so there's no difference in that sense. That you're trying to have some of your conspiracy theories, how can I tell you, that's your problem. I just want to draw attention to one important thing. The citizens of Serbia will, of course, always decide what is true, and what is not when you fight for censorship, then you can change me right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-23-0.u47086	This is what we'd be done with today's work and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. [[session interrupted at 17.55 a.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session has been prevented from being attended by MP Dusko Tarbuk. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on construction products. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – the draft law on construction products, called to attend: Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Aleksandra Damnjanović, Miodrag Poledica, Imre Kern and Zoran Lakić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Jovanka Atanakovic, Đorđe Milić and Zoran Ilic, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and Bozana Lukić, independent adviser at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
