ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48373	Thank you. We move to item 1 of the agenda – Proposal for a Regulation on the reduction of the risk of catastrophes and the management of emergency situations on amendments. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs under the bill, reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Gorica Gajic. Does he want a word? (No) Does anyone else want a word? (No) Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48374	Yeah, the amendment to this article's title was filed because it's really kind of wide-ranging, I've got a title, almost one member in the title. It could've been easier said. But the bottom line is, we have general objections to this bill and we talked about it and in principle debate, there are a lot of general things here, a lot, that's almost all about the strategy, and you know well that the strategy isn't necessarily something that it commits, it's something that the government brings to an area for a certain period, but what's not strictly regulated by the law somehow always remains unfinished, without obligation, etc. We had these major basic disasters, I guess the biggest problems in that area so far, happened in 2014, when they were those big floods, and they were really supposed to learn something from this situation and formulate in laws, and then it was the state authorities, etc., and citizens, first of all, everybody was involved in solving and saving people and property, and it was mostly that way, I would say on a voluntary basis or when it comes to state authorities, police and the military in some professional code, I would say. And that's why we think that this law when it was passed that it was supposed to be much more precise and clear, and that's why we're already going on about the title with the amendments. You ministers, you owe us information relating to this 2011 GETO police action, when a 125kg of heroin was seized in Novi Pazar and one of those who took part in it ran into the police and came out of the car with a gun and told the police to call Rasim Ljajic. And, please, give us a full piece of light on this situation, for the sake of the public, first of all, I say again, today you may not be able to, but we expect that these next days while we're here to inform us in detail about this action, to find out if your associates have hidden it from you, so maybe you didn't have any information. We expect to get detailed information on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48375	At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48376	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Maric, this law should not only be in the function of editing the Emergency Sector within the framework of the Serbian Republic's MUP, but should have one educational one, you will agree with character. I am saying this because a group of prominent security professors in Belgrade did one study in 2017, covering 2,400 and some respondents in the local self-government area in Serbia and only 24.4% said they were ready to react in case an emergency occurred. Now, time is short, we will talk about concrete cases and situations that have hit Serbia. The biggest disaster is flood, scum and mud in the face and part of the DOS in 2000, October 5th. I guess that's pretty clear. Serbia's major disaster couldn't happen. When it comes to these natural disasters, it's an incredible case that there's no education of the local population in this way, starting with children in primary school, to the oldest of our citizens, because you know something that can't be prevented must be adequately reacted. And that's why we're here, to look up to the Russians and their way of working, when it comes to education and youth and all the inhabitants of that country, because she is, above all, today is an emergency situation and every kind of terrorist, don't give God an act. Is that right? It starts with a variety of natural disasters, as this classification of emergency situations and disasters that can happen to Serbia is indeed a broad diapazone. But this wasn't supposed to be just the law. So in that function, it has an educational character so that people can get to know each other and that they can respond adequately. In other things, how much we need to be serious about all this, you will show if you immediately take all the activities to assign diplomatic status to the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, because it is very important and because their knowledge can help us prevent and work when it comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48377	Minister Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48378	I agree with you on education, it's an important thing, and that's why we started, as an initiative by the Ministry of Education, that in the first, fourth and sixth grade primary schools we teach our children, among other things, about the emergency situation, and I think that's going to show up. Last year she was, I'd say very successful, over 2,500 people from the police are now involved. When I say from the police, I mean from all over the ministry, of course, the Emergency Sector, and I think after first initial contact with parents, teachers and children, we see that education makes sense. That is why we have continued and extended our years to champions, and I think that this kind of education, where we are teaching them of course, in addition to the emergency situations of drug-related dangers, alcohol, which carries cyber crime and everything that can potentially be an emergency, as well as of course the knowledge of police work in the community, will also make these children safer and, of course, more likely to respond to situations in which they are not, which is entirely true, have not studied in a sufficiently good way at school, which is why we have proposed this kind of education. In addition, I am pleased that a part of retired police officers have been involved in this action and along with officers who perform their regular tasks, so schools are involved in child education and can pass on much knowledge because it is still relatively young people who have great knowledge and who can help our children to be more effectively protected. Of course, it's very important that parents get involved. We insist on that, and we invite parents, because if parents are part of that system and they understand the whole matter better, they will be able to protect their children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48379	Thank you. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments to the bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, both on the title and on a number of members of this proposal, because we believe that this bill is bad and is based solely on a strategy of risk of non-binding disasters, which only sets out guidelines for the engagement of human and material resources adopted by the Government, and that the majority of members of this proposal alone do not constitute legal norms, i.e. making legal regulatory arrangements to do so. That's why we suggested erasing those members. What should be regulated by this bill is prevention and that much more is done in that period when nothing is happening, or when we do not have an emergency situation. The best way to do this, that is, to help reduce the risk of disasters, especially management in emergency situations when they occur, is to assign diplomatic status to members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. You spoke to the ministers in principle about excellent co-operation with members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, and we believe that this further suggests that you grant these people diplomatic status and we urge you once again to accept those amendments to the SRS that relate to the granting of diplomatic status.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48381	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SRS wants to actively debate with you on this matter for the simple reason that the consequences that arise after extraordinary risks can be huge. This law will put aside the Emergency Law and you call it, in one part of the title of the law stands, the Risk Reduction Act. This could be said to be quite adequate to start the title of this law but not until the end of the whole, and that's why we intervened in the title of the law. The emergency situation mainly arises as an unpredictable consequence of more force. However, emergency situations very often can also occur in human activity, if increased drug trafficking is carried out, especially if there are reasonable doubts, people who are members of the government are doing so is an extremely extraordinary situation. Perhaps we should consider in a preventive way how the Ministry of the Interior should act, you are the minister in that ministry and how and how we should deal with it. It is true here that my colleagues pointed out, that special attention should be paid to preventive action so that these consequences would not occur because preventive investment in any area will cost a lot, or sometimes, to avoid the consequences that later cause disproportionate damage and not only materially, but even human lives when it comes to it. So we need to seriously see how to fight and against a human factor that very often leads to emergency situations and I just have to remind you, in Serbia there are a number of old schools, they are not abandoned, they work with very few students. They're unconditional and I can't say it's a minor problem, but here I have an example of a school where there's been a fire recently. Intervention funds were granted only on the roof structure. Now that the fire happened, he didn't just destroy the roof, other parts of that school were destroyed. The funds for covering or covering were approved, here perhaps in the emergency sector should be seen when such a request arrives that it is not waiting for the procedures that are common when everything is normal. We have an emergency situation, we're talking about the Emergency Act, so it might be a good idea for you to act very quickly to overcome this problem. In later discussions, I'm going to tell you what school it's about and where this intervention is going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48383	The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48384	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to highlight one of our principle remarks by the MPs of the SRS, which is the unification of debate and mergers in a single search of several dozen legislative proposals. I will continue to speak and express my opinion of this bill through these amendments. The Emergency Management Authority was governed by the 2009 Act and the amendments and additions of that Act in 2011 and 2012. The 2009 law did not withstand a test of the weather and the temptations of the catastrophic May floods in 2014. It's not the law, it's the sleeping of organs and institutions. A preventive norm does not mean anything unless it is followed by organisation, vigilance, and preparedness for timely challenges. I agree that no one could predict the catastrophic situation of these floods, but no one can deny the impact of the human factor. It's about the responsibilities of the individual and the community. The individual's responsibility is primarily in strengthening consciousness and conscience, but we'll agree, it's not enough to fight everyone. The current law should not have changed or not in this way, by introducing a reduction in the risk of disasters, when we know that emergency management is a much wider concept and contains also a dimension of risk reduction. It'll continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48385	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Petar Jojic has submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48386	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when it comes to this bill, should not forget that the fundamental culprits of many disasters and many problems in the fields of protection and human rights, environmental protection, property protection and citizens' rights are right on local self-government. When you look at what our inspections are doing at the bar, and what inspections are doing at the republican, or regional level. You'll see that there's no one to control what they're doing and proper inspections, especially if you have a situation on the ground, starting with those channels, rivers, bridges, fires and other problems that occur in this area, the main problem is that there's no one to control and no one to manage. The important thing is to mention and repair in Obrenovac again, this is what our SRS MPs said and will point out that those floods are the subjects of those public enterprises, and local self-government. In this direction, it should be borne in mind that members of the internal affairs authorities have made a major contribution to preventing an even greater disaster, and even greater damage. So I'm taking the opportunity to point out that it's one of the positive sides and the only authority in this country, that is. The Ministry of the Interior, by letter of the competent authority, of course, with the participation of other entities, did what was really possible, and that there was no such intervention, that there was no such management of the situation, in any case, to bring about more serious consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48387	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48388	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately, with such a restrictive Rules of Procedure and one exact agenda, with 25 different draft laws cannot be corrected through amendments and pointed out shortcomings, including some members of these proposals and commended if it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We see this at the beginning with the first four members of the proposed law on reducing the risk of disaster and managing emergency situations. We will not be able to correct this bill, because regardless of the proposed amendments, both the opposition and the formal and the positions, the government and the resolution ministry rarely accept it. By passing a law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, there are many members who are not precise enough and who are unscheduled. Through a strategy adopted by the government and an action plan for its implementation, there is no time at hand, as well as an assessment of the risk of adjudicating adoption, so that the provinces and local self-government agree their assessments with the republican. Then, the plan to reduce the risk of adjudication, of course, to provide for a funding plan, to implement risk mitigation measures. The current law does not provide for this, and it has come to the conclusion that the age of fire-saving vehicles and emergency response equipment has become obsolete, is often broken down and is not operational, making it difficult to operate fire-saving units, a civil protection formed by the MUP. According to data available to the SRS, the age of fire-saving vehicles is on average 30 years. It's particularly expressed in smaller municipalities. Then, in this proposal, it is the government's obligation to provide for and draw up a financial plan for the current year, not like so far from the current budget reserve, to implement measures of protection and rescue, to purchase fire-fighting vehicles, fire-saving equipment, training and anything else that follows this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48389	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48390	As for the condition of the vehicle, first of all, of front-end vehicles and vehicles using fire-saving units, we started this rejuvenation process and one longer period of time was not their renewal, about 20 and 30 years. That's why, in addition to the 14 vehicles that you had the opportunity to see that they were delivered to fire rescue units a few weeks ago, we are in a process in which, I hope half of September, let's say, in the following year, we have 46 more vehicles of new fire rescue units, which will be reached sequentially from January to 10, 15 vehicles, depending on the contract and on the manufacturer, or their contractual obligations. That, of course, is not the end. In addition to these vehicles, we will enter the procurement of new capital projects of new vehicles, which you will see when the budget is on the agenda, and I expect, to say, that we will be able to obtain for sure 70, 80 fire-saving vehicles in this and next year, which will significantly rejuvenate that composition, and will enable, as you have seen through the Voluntary Fire Department, to enable our sector to literally donate vehicles through the Serbia Firearms Association, which will no longer be active in the use of the MUP, but are still good enough for fire-saving societies and thus enable the creation of a fact-finding special unit, which means that these DVDs will be able to engage as aid to the active services of the Emergency Sector, but also to be at the service of citizens, which means that you are a good move. But anyway, we're working on modernization.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48391	Thank you. Do you want to discuss the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48392	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it's clear that you have people on the ground who are doing a safe job and I personally know that they are extremely trained, but what you said, unless it's done very quickly, because you yourself know what the average vehicle is in all of them, especially in these smaller municipalities, but know, honestly, because I was present, that the situation on the ground is quite different. Their intestines are very bumpy, they can't even get people to the fire, no matter where he was. So to tell you the truth, they're not trained firefighters. And for that reason, I ask you to pay particular attention to smaller municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48393	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48394	We will absolutely pay attention to all municipalities, we will not share them in any way other than sectoral priorities, in terms of fire risk priorities or any other emergency situation, and we will, of course, make sure that, in the shortest time, next to the vehicle that is part of the equipment we supply, we also get other parts of the equipment, such as. Rescue suits, intervention suits, working suits that are purchased for regular work, but also specialized equipment. We've had good projects and donations, where we've managed to get a larger amount of suits that serve divers and rescuers when floods happen, when they have to do it in more extreme circumstances, but also, let's say, we're working on getting more active, more serious complexes, Robocomplexes, which are used to eliminate dangers in the case of, say, some complex toxic waste spills or something like that, so we don't endanger the lives of firefighters, we'll use equipment we're getting. Was it possible to get everything in a short time? It's not. The ministry had some segments, not only in the Emergency Sector, but also in the police and other sectors, many old and vehicles and equipment. One big part we managed to fix. Let's move on. We will not be satisfied, of course, until every vehicle is on average able to be very efficient, usable and in the best possible technical condition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48395	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48396	Thank you. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. With this amendment, we have suggested that the title be changed. We have proposed that the National Assembly adopt a draft law on the involvement of state authorities in emergency situations. The direct cause for the submission of this amendment is that at the beginning of the law in defining the cases of the law, the proposer himself stated that the disaster risk reduction and emergency management system is of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia and is part of the national security system. If the promoter would consider these allegations, the SRS parliamentary group is of the opinion that we should accept this amendment, because when we talk about something of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that this must not be left to anyone other than the state authorities. Also when something is part of the national security system, without doubt it must be in jurisdiction, but also the responsibility of the state authorities and there is no dilemma. This was the reason that the SRS parliamentary group submitted this amendment and proposed a different name for this bill. We believe that by accepting this amendment, the proposed law would have a much more appropriate name, which would make it clear that the responsibility of the state authorities is more clear that, in the event of any emergency situation, it is known that the state authorities have to respond in time and there are no gaps, nor are they allowed, that all risks of any disaster must be managed at the level of the state authorities, which are the responsibility when there are unforeseen situations and cannot be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48397	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does he want a word? On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48398	Mr. Stefanovic, we have been discussing for two days the draft of these laws behind which is, above all, the government and your ministry. Despite the fact that today's debate is according to the amendments, an attempt to amend certain provisions of these laws, you insist on giving an answer to a key question. Key question - is Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic headed by a drug cartel in Novi Pazar? That's the key question. We can talk here for days, but we can't settle for the answer that's in it – I don't believe it, I can't believe it, I'm surprised or similar answers. You have to clearly, decadently as the Government to say – we have no data in the MUP, no BIA data and that the public knows whether it's true or not. It is true, because we have, as Serbian radicals, evidence. What would be simpler than if the ministry, or you, as a representative of the ministry, a leading man said, no, it's not true the MUP doesn't have one single piece of information that that's the case? You, according to that, are the people who speak, and you have not heard. As far as these amendments are concerned, we just want to specify certain things. You've predicted international co-operation here, you've predicted civil protection, you've predicted education, you've predicted inspection tasks, it's all good, but one thing here is basically unclear. How long will you delay, delay giving diplomatic status to those who work at the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis? How long will you reject the SRS proposal and citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina to form another centre, set up in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the emergency center? These are the questions the public is looking for.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48399	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48400	So you're aware of course that I didn't say any of my own personal observations. On the contrary, I said what is in the data of the MUP - that there is no knowledge that Rasim Ljajic is part, a member or organizer of any criminal group, nor that he is ever suspected of it, nor has he ever been investigated against him, nor has he ever been tried for it. That's what the fact is. Also, as far as the GREK action is concerned, public court proceedings were conducted at the time when SNS was not in power for drug trafficking and sentenced to prison sentences. Those persons did not mention the name Rasim Ljajic in the court proceedings, nor did any witness mention his name, nor did anyone ever pronounce his name in any form. So, neither the cops, nor the people who are in the paper, were marked to mention him, neither they themselves, nor their defenses, nor the prosecution, nor anyone else. So, in the entire prosecution and court case. I just want to tell you that there is no basis for the MUP to believe that Rasim Ljajic has done anything wrong with negative or criminal prosecution. If everyone else has any evidence, let them give evidence to the D.A.'s office and let the D.A. handle the case. As far as the MUP is concerned, we do not have information on its involvement in any crime on the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48401	Thank you. The word is Branimir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48402	Thank you. I am advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, paragraph 1. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Today, the topic of the agenda is to reduce the risk in emergency situations. There's talk here and charges are brought back on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister. I find the minister unequivocally once again removed any suspicion. I thank the Home Secretary for the information. I don't know how many times it takes to make that clear. I understand that someone has a debt to someone, but someone has to understand that the elections for national minority councils have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48403	Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Did you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48404	Thank you, President. A colleague of 106 just mentioned it. Article 107, of course, implies a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. We are witnesses here in the previous days of one, I feel free to say, trying to live up to an MP group that I belong to and represent and my colleagues here say is a sad party. It's actually their party. It's an auto-projection. They're sad and something like that that... Read it, everybody knows what it means. I think it should stand with this kind of insult, with this kind of behavior in the high home of our National Assembly. We should, in our opinion, debate this, to come up with the best possible proposals and laws, and therefore the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, is here, very ready, very committed to answering questions, to discuss how to speed up police work, to speed up security in our country. I absolutely do not think there is any need for this kind of bickering and, in particular, these accusations by the police minister and Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic have been denied. Here, I haven't counted, but this is ten times that he's been here in the National Assembly, but in the media, he's been denied as someone who's led by the police, as someone who's the most formed. We are here as a parliamentary group to listen to these accused, to endure the experiences of a group of MPs. To some, it's an honor, very decent people, very constructive people. I ask that the National Assembly declare themselves in voting day and stand with this kind of unarticulated and not exactly normal behaviour in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48405	Thank you. We'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48406	Article 27(1) I probably fall under Mr Marinkovic's criteria into those rude MPs, but I have to draw attention that he doesn't know exactly what he's saying. He says Serbian radicals are saddened by a parliamentary group and a party. We didn't. Sadaka is when someone gives you something out of mercy. Now, Alexander Vukic has given them 10 parliamentary mandates out of grace. If they went out on their own, they'd see what they'd get. Please, here's because he was talking to a colleague through a breach of the Rules of Procedure that we were running some campaign, and about the national councils of the national minorities. Of course that's not true, but I don't know what their party has to do with national minority councils. They're when they need a national minority party, and when they don't need them, they're SDS. You can't, you know, be a Bosniak in the morning, be a Social Democrats in the afternoon, unless it fits into the same man. But how much they take care of Muslims or Bosniaks, as they like to say, speaks the fact...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48407	MPs, this really doesn't have any contact with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48408	... Tells the fact that there are ten MPs here, of which only one Muslim. So much for them and their concern for Muslims and national councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48409	Now, let me tell you the MPs. No, just take it easy. Everybody put the Rules of Procedure down, I'm calling you on it. I'm going to begin by seizing two minutes of the parliamentary group that will be abused in this way by the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure, because that's what the Rules of Procedure can do. So if we're going to listen, not to discuss the amendments, but to something else, then we're going to end it soon, within 20, 30 minutes. It'll be taken away from you all the time. And if that's your goal, I agree. So it's all about everything. But today, to hear about other topics, except laws like this, I'm not inclined. So today we're talking about reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. Try to focus on that. These three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I ignore my responsibility for the next round. There were no conditions for replication. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. According to Article 27, the president runs a session, not MPs who earn. So no one wants to talk about the amendment to Ljiljana Mihajlovic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48410	The interior minister certainly knows what all citizens know, that we live in a highly corrupt state and society, and that this bill just gives us the opportunity to keep this corruption spreading unpunished. If you had analyzed what happened in the King during the earthquake and how donations and regular financial resources were misused, then you would know that you would have made a better bill. The bill would be great if there weren't this much corruption in our country. However, given the corruption and the unpunished people who participated in the distribution of funds related to the King, we cannot let go of such a bill, so flexible, so creative and without responsibility, and should bear in mind that in the coming period you supplement this law with certain provisions relating to the liability of only those people who use these financial resources and who realize everything that is related to these fundamental disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48411	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48412	First of all, Serbia is not a highly corrupt society and in our country indeed the largest number of citizens, absolutely the largest number, lives perfectly normal, in accordance with the law in a decent world. That's how they perceive us, after all, all those people who came to Serbia from both east and west. Top state officials, presidents, prime ministers, are in favour of the fact. Because, you know, in highly corrupt societies these people don't go, they don't want to come and they don't want to meet people they think are highly corrupt or unworthy to meet. Fortunately, Serbia is indeed a society that builds on the rule of law and wants to live in a country that deals with corruption and crime in the strictest possible way. I agree with you, perhaps in 2009 and 2010, the situation was significantly worse, perhaps Serbia was more corrupt then today and it was, to say the least, sorry that I was not at the head of the ministry at the time, nor could we, nor could the MUP have a decisive influence on the outcome of the court proceedings against all those who have sinned against the property of citizens. It's, first of all, the courts. You know that. So, if the court of someone suspected of corruption releases or fines punishes, there's nothing the M.P. can do about it. What will the unfortunate officers who are going to arrest, who are going to jail, who hand over to prosecutors and judges who they believe have gathered enough evidence that this suspect is the most severe corrupting act, especially the one who, however, is speaking about the King, for restoration, was done under the second law, the Law of Reconstruction, but nevertheless, despite different legal matter, there is a criminal law that says what is allowed and which is not. So, I'm afraid a lot of things are missed during that period. If we had the chance to solve it then, but in the future we'd have to work harder and harder on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48413	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Do you want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the proposal by MP Nikola Savic. Do you want a word? Z (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to the bill on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management. This government seems unaware that everything that comes from the EU is not good and is not applicable to our conditions. Of course, when you look at the name of the law, everyone will immediately think it's a very important law. This is an important law, but the title of the law does not solve the problems it is brought about. We'd all like to eliminate disaster risks, but that's just not possible. Catastrophes are, as a rule, unpredictable, so there is no law that can predict them and prevent them. For a large number of disasters, responsibility carries a human factor, although not a small number of disasters caused by so-called disaster. A higher force. That's why we here need to consider only those disasters that, by their doing or not, are caused by a human factor. On the other hand, the EU's most developed industrial countries are most responsible for the largest number of disasters that have been caused in this way, but these same countries, as they always accuse others of irresponsible behaviour towards the environment. This law is only being passed because it is required by the EU, then it is better not to pass it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48415	Thank you. On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Amendment Bill, a Member of the Parliament of Aleksandra Belačić submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted the amendment to the proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Amendment Bill, MP Bosko Obradovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48416	The law that is before us that we talked about and throughout last week is something that is very important to the citizens. We have found here that often and periodically various accidents occur in Serbia, today we have mentioned earthquakes, earthquakes in the Kingdom, we have mentioned all those floods that happened in the Republic of Serbia in 2013 and especially cities that suffered, we know and that we often have fires and we certainly need to work continuously to improve such situations. Significant material consequences and by property, but also by the life and health of people stem from natural disasters. In some countries it is regulated and there are special ministries for emergency situations, so let's say in the Russian Federation we have co-operation with, there is a humanitarian centre in Nis to whom you cannot assign diplomatic status, they have a special ministry and significant resources. In itself, the law cannot do anything, it can remain a dead letter on paper unless the law is respected, unless the law is applied, and if significant financial resources are not allocated to prevent any natural disasters. We may not be able to guess exactly when it will happen, but we can know that we are at risk and at what risk we are at. After those catastrophic floods in 2013, we had the professional public and deans of numerous universities of the University of Belgrade, which made it clear that the existing protection measures were not maintained for decades at all, and that the consequences of these floods were clear responsibility borne by the human factor. So here and here, unless there's responsibility and a human factor to clear the law, there's nothing we can do. This isn't the only law where it's simple, so it doesn't apply. You, Mr. Minister, spoke last week about the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports Events, where you correctly indicated that the number of such incidents in the stadium had decreased. But the point is, we have to respect the laws. As soon as you have arbitration, that something is respected for someone, someone is not respected, or there is no certainty that the legal norm will apply, we have this one void, one space. I'm sorry you weren't here on Friday to ask you just about how the police can't stop, prevent, noticeably increase in violence by cheerleading groups outside the stadium, and how the police can't know, here's more than a year, who's for example. killed Demir Jukic in New Belgrade?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48417	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48418	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm used to any amendments that usually come from this side being rejected. However, I think this amendment should have been accepted. In fact, in the title of the law, I have come up with one proposal, and I have added two words that represent the name of our beautiful country. So -- the law of the Republic of Serbia on reducing the risk of disasters. Why is that? It's consistent, Mr. Minister, with what we from the Serbian Dvori movement talk about all the time. For two years, I have been a national MP, and believe me, 90% of the laws in reasoning and in reasons for law-making have a sentence that this is in line with EU rules and compliance with the EU. Thank God, there's no reason to pass this law. It is precisely because, in the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is not in accordance with both the directive and the recommendation, or whatever we can call it, with the EU, I, on behalf of the law, added the Republic of Serbia to strengthen it. I have spoken, and I have no intention of repeating it, that I am not giving myself the right to love Serbia more than you do, but in the presentation of Bosko Obradovic, after whom the polemic with you broke out last week, I was prevented for family reasons from being present, we have come to the situation that what we are talking about, you always have a desire to twist. So, I'm telling you, we're out of the deadlock business, as I see it, and it's called the EU, and then you tell us in response to Mr. Obradovic what's wrong with the German economy, does she fall asleep, do they have bread in Germany? Of course they do, of course they don't. And we're witnesses, no matter what prosperity we have, as far as we're concerned. People from the health profession went to Germany in a short time. But it's not a topic, it's Mr. Peter Boyer, who says we have to recognise Kosovo. That is why not the EU, and that is why, in the proposal for this law, I am adding, to let it be known, that it is the law of the Republic of Serbia. I know you feel the same way I do, but then I don't understand why the amendment refuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48419	Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48420	So, as you said yourself, this law does not agree with anything, but is brought solely because we wanted to propose to the National Assembly and because we think it is of the best interest to the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the Republic of Serbia cannot even pass the law, or its National Assembly cannot pass laws on behalf of another country, but only the laws of the Republic of Serbia. These two words -- the laws of the Republic of Serbia, we could put ahead of all the laws, and it's pointless because it certainly applies to the laws of the Republic of Serbia. We are in Serbia. So these laws that the Assembly adopts are the laws of Serbia. After all, it is the Assembly that is competent to change some amendments. Just because the government doesn't think you should adopt it doesn't mean that the Assembly can't adopt it. You can adopt any amendment and modify any law. It's the government of the National Assembly, we're just here to propose. As for the EU, I think Mr. Obradovic has become Serbia's largest Eurofanatic. It seems to me that he and his coalition partners, in fact, are directly responsible. I've been seeing people he's been spending time with lately, and to say, he's got the most intense communication and political activity. They have transferred the decision on our beautiful, southern province from the UN, where we would have a chance to fight with people who support Serbia, to the EU. They now perform together, go from city to city, from municipality to municipality, and convince the people that it was a good move. They convince the people that it was a good move to go to the International Court of Justice to ask for the question after which a number of other countries have admitted so-called. independence of Kosovo and Metohija. They have established borders on Jarinj and Brnjak, and now they all together, as one society, I am convinced that you do not think so, but they all together as one society, perform in a complete Eurofanatism, and unfortunately, in the worst form of Eurofanatism that is not in the interests of the Republic of Serbia. As far as I'm concerned, I apologize for the time, just two more sentences, Germany, I wasn't talking about the German economy because of the German economy, but it's the laws that we agree on, laws that harmonize with the best tradition and these German, Austrian and other economies, and at all society and social values. And that's what we want to promote when I talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48421	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Srdjan Nogo has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48422	As soon as some disasters and emergency situations result in great material damage, it is also an opportunity for some to earn well. Let's remember in 2013, and for example, South Baka as she earned and how much Mr. Nenad Kovač earned on the coves of Kolubara. Well, those people who drove coal that year in 2013 because of the inability to dig in Kolubara, they also made good money. So we simply need to know that corruption and some disasters and emergency circumstances are often connected, emergency situations, and I'm going to be able to discuss some debate from a few minutes ago, that, really, without suppressing corruption and such elements and moments, we won't be able to simply achieve the effect of any law, because we're free of any laws even if they're good, if we don't apply them. We have, I wouldn't agree with you here, a serious systemic problem with corruption, which is primarily, of course, characteristic of, I don't know, some power centers where decisions are made, whether it's the judiciary, whether it's executive power, whether it's economics, but not citizens are immune to it, so we go to the doctor and carry a bottle of whiskey. It's been so long and it's gotten so far in all the pores that we have to deal with this problem seriously. So, I don't think we could agree on that. As for, here's the mention of Germany, we are against the EU long before, or even, I would say that when you were against the EU, we thought the same thing. Unfortunately, in the meantime, you, as a SNS, have changed that view and for six years you have been on another road, or 10 years you have changed that view, unlike the people of the Dvora who have remained consistent with everything they have represented. It is not only the abduction of Kosovo, but we and the economy will not be able to progress unless we are free of colonial status. Emergency situations and emergency circumstances are very specific and very characteristic and can appear and manifest in many ways. In addition to natural and natural disasters, they can often be caused by some political events and political events. If you read the stenograms from Friday's session, then I challenged, pointed to an emergency situation and an emergency question, Mr. Minister, which is precisely the abolition of the visa-free settlement with Iran that I know you didn't know the reason. Also, I know you haven't seen these materials. These materials are very interesting, because it's a scheme of the Iran Intelligence Ministry, so-called. The MoIS, which is why we were suspended, or ordered from Brussels to abolish the visa-free regime. Because the Iranians came here without passports, how could they then end up in the EU? Infiltration between migrants or possible counterfeiting, i.e. by obtaining Serbian passports. I said at the time that I knew you had nothing to do with it, but it won't upset you because you're in charge of police work. This is not a matter to be read in public, because these data, agents and companies through which MoIS works should certainly not be available and known to the wider citizen, but since you haven't seen this material, so this material you don't own, but by typing simple names you'll see that these people have been in this country and you'll understand who they are and what they are. You can look at it, I'll give it to you, because this is a pretty sensitive question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48423	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48424	When we speak both in terms of this law and in general about the European Union, in addition to the values that we want to adopt, which we consider to be European values that our people and our people are, because we are part of Europe, we think it is always important for all citizens to see what they are getting and what they are losing. We fight for Kosovo and the Metohija and continue to fight. So no one can condition it that way, because we want to fight for every inch of our country. As for what's good, what people see, certainly is, among other things, economic exchange. When you look at the extent of our exchange, counting the countries of the region, but the most countries of the European Union, therefore, the volume of exchange between Serbia and those countries is about 85% of our total trade. Only 15% of our trade is not in that segment, because with all other countries together, including the United States and Canada, Australia, Russia, China, etc., 15%, 85% of the EU plus the countries around us. When these trades would not be, in an economic sense, you can imagine what our country's economic situation would look like, and all those people who live in this country, who sell their raspberries, who sell their vegetables, who sell most of their goods, in the most part, 85%, of course software, cables, turbo chargers and all that is done in our country, parts for vehicles, everything that is going on today, what is being built on, among other things, the BMW, the Mercedes, the "audies" and everything else, it happens in the territory of Europe. As for Iran, what I can safely tell you is that none of these people received the official passport of the Republic of Serbia and entered our country with the state passport of the Republic of Serbia without passports, and then with the passport of the Republic of Serbia came out of this country. Has anyone falsified any passports? We've worked hard with other police to catch these people and bring them to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48425	Thank you. You want to get the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48426	According to the amendment, given the dialogue, in order not to have the right to reply, I would like to continue this dialogue and just point out. No one here has talked about not cooperating in the area of economy with these countries, but we need to understand the depth of this problem, that we have been brought into an independent position. There is no real growth here, while Serbia is exclusively a flow water heater. We have, say, Fiat as one of the largest exporters, which is also the largest importer. Imports, concluded, sold further, and money does not end in Serbia. So we have it in the GDP, we have it in the balance of payments as exports, and that's why we're in debt, but the real economy here, the people, it's gone, it's a key problem. So we don't have a real economy. We're losing B.I.P., so this is where the money is pumping out. How can a network of mobile phones be a loser? There is also a court ruling concerning Turkey's investor, Ginsi, for the allegations of Dr Predrag Mitrovica, a member of the Dveri presidency, who won in the Ginsi court when he was sued for it. So it's a much deeper problem and it's not that simple to look at it. It's just, I think it's important for the benefit of the state that we urgently break off the practice of having our economy so oriented. As far as the Iranians are concerned, they're not ordinary people. I was talking here about people who are part of Iran's intelligence community, that is, their main service. We are thanks to this visa-free regime, many have been simpler to simply send migrants on planes than, imagine, it's easier from Tehran Soros to load one plane, to get people here and land, than now that he's over 20 countries organizing these transfers. But of course the Iranian service took advantage of it. That whole operation went like that. A man comes with a regular Iranian passport and leaves Serbia without that passport. Let's see how many Iranians got in, how many Iranians came out of Serbia. So, somewhere out of sight, probably in their embassy, that passport, and they're moving on. The whole arms affair at the migrant house in Sarajevo that was recently found was about this very operation for the Iranian service. That's one deep problem. This is the material that Stoltenberg showed to Vukic, and we can simply continue this dialogue, not like this in public, but if you're interested in looking at it, but I'm just telling you that it can be a problem and that first of all it can be a problem for you, as a competent minister, that you're not part of it, so just wash it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48427	The word has Minister Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48428	I accept my responsibility in everything because I work exclusively by law. Otherwise, all our departments always control all the faces that enter our country and try to comply with the knowledge that we have to take measures and actions. Have any faces abused the visa-free regime? Sure. Not just from Iran, from many countries. There have been abuses of visa-free regimes and they have tried to leave our country and go to the Schengen area or to the European Union without the necessary documents, with forged documents and in various other ways. Unfortunately, through the 2015 migrant crisis, many have taken the opportunity to reach and reach the European Union countries, not only through Serbia, through Italy, through France, through other countries, through Hungary, through Romania, through Bulgaria, and so on, in different ways. However, the job of all security services, not only ours, but also in Europe, is to try to find out that every kind of subversive, intelligence or other covert action is also fighting it. That's the job of the service, that's their job. As for the fact that some companies that are large exporters and large importers, I agree, but then it asks itself is, what is a fundamental question, a matter of wages, contributions and taxes, do we have, as after 14 months you actually earn every subsidy you gave on average, after 14 months each factory already brings to the Republic of Serbia, so what you gave back. But what's good about that is that some people got jobs that they didn't have until then. So those who didn't have any jobs, at that point they got it. At the same time, we do not prohibit domestic companies from doing so. You can open the company, you have the right to subsidies, you have the right to lending programmes, you have the right to grants, you have the right to various stimulants depending, of course, and from the part of Serbia where you invest, whether they are developed, less developed, more or less money is given, you have the right to various benefits, but someone has to open it and hire people to participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48429	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48430	I didn't mean these subsidies, but when you touched them, you brought foreign investors thanks to subsidies. As long as they exist, they will come, although no foreign investment has developed. We have to settle another question, I am sorry that Minister Kuburovic is not there, why we cannot resolve chapters 23 and 24 and the most important thing regarding the Serbian judiciary, we do not have legal certainty. So, because of legal uncertainty, we have such a climate and such an environment that is not at all suitable for the economy or for the home or for the side. Simply, we have a paradoxical situation in courts, that in the same factual state between the same parties there is a dispute in the same court by the same judge and that there are two diametrically opposite decisions. It's simply incomprehensible for anyone in the world. Because of such a situation with our judiciary and because of lack of legal certainty, that you simply have a law, the law is respected and that you can know that it will actually be applied through some form of godliness and independent judicial conviction opens up a space for serious corruption. That's what we had before. He was also Ljakic, a man in charge of the practice of the VKS, returned all decisions from the Supreme Cassation Court that were not in line with the decisions previously made, but lost somewhere in the meantime, and this is the serious problem that breaks both the Serbian judiciary and the Serbian society. It has nothing to do with even the parties, or the party's influence on the judiciary. It's a serious problem of criminal justice. People, until we figure this out, we're in big trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48431	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48432	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, I always love it when you're in the O.R., because you're willing to exchange views and with MPs who belong to the opposition, and I always see my conversation as talking to two inexperiences, and certainly not as talking to two enemies. However, I didn't want to get into the controversy before, because I knew I had time and a half of the amendment, and I'd also use time as deputy head of Parliament. It is true that you said what I added was the law of the Republic of Serbia and that the law is in the Republic of Serbia, of course it is for the Republic of Serbia. I agree with that being true. I deliberately said that because I knew that you would refuse, so in this second amendment of mine, that is, to Article 1, I am now ousting, because it does not matter that the title is "Republic of Serbia", I am ousting this part where it says that the risk reduction system is of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia. Well, that's supposed to make sense, Mr. Minister, as it should be that it's logical and worse. Because if it's for the Republic of Serbia, it's going to be here. Or if I suggest it is, then it is, if the government suggests it isn't. Well, and that should make sense, Mr. Minister, as it should be logical and worse, because if what's for the Republic of Serbia, the pleonasm is going to be here or if I suggest it is, then it is, if the government suggests it isn't. What you are teaching me is that the Assembly can accept, I am old enough to know who the majority in the assembly is and I know what the Assembly accepts, and I know that the Assembly will not accept, not what may not be so important, but the many proposals, declarations, resolutions that I have proposed, which are deeply meaningful and go into the interest of the Republic of Serbia and strengthen the position and position of the Republic of Serbia, but of course it always refuses. But I accept that it seems to you that we are Eurofanatics, never anyone from the Serbian Dvora Movement, Mr. Minister, will be a Eurofanatic and don't just impute it, because then as a guy who loves epic poetry, I'll say, "I'm wrestling both then and now with the EU." I'm not going to add anything else, because it doesn't stand in your case. And when you tell us, Mr. Minister for Jarinje and Brnjak, let's see Mr. Minister, what years have these administrative boundaries been put in place and who was in power then? I'll bring you a document that's in the MP's office to show you the date on which such a decision was made, who signed the document. It won't be that it wasn't the advanced party in power back then. But let's not talk about what shouldn't stand like that, I say we're not like-minded, but I believe we're on the same assignment. When I say that I am against the EU, I think you should understand and I know that that is how you realize that I am not against the countries of Europe, but I am against the EU, as an organization that, by my deep conviction, is absolutely devastating in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and cooperation with every EU country, wherever we have mutual interest, because I am aware that there is no cooperation without interest, must and should exist. And one more thing, and it's about these disaster laws, we've had Mr. Minister, I'm from the King, a situation with two huge natural disasters in the King, with earthquakes and floods. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that the consequences of the tragic aftermath of the earthquake for the city of Kraljevo, when indeed the Republic of Serbia stood behind the city, helped rebuild the city? Today's state, that the construction operation of the city of Kings was destroyed, because then, and then I was a councilman in the City of Kings Assembly, so let me, reach my memory a few years back, I know when then the authorities, the police, so she arrested the mayor, who was from that former government, painted in yellow, so there was nothing of it, and someone did it like that. What I, as a citizen of the City of Kings, see, is that that's when the city's construction operation was destroyed and that now that we want to do something, people must come to our side. So, one good law and I'm going to connect to Mr. Nog, I think this law is good, it can be better, so we're correcting it, it's in our interest, but if we don't apply it in the way that we have to apply it, every law will only remain a letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48433	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48434	Mr. Vesic, I didn't say you were a Eurofanatic, I was very precise, I was directly referring to Mr. Obradovic, because it seems to me that he turned into this Eurofanatism completely, that there is no stopping at all, that he was headed that way, absolutely. Here, I'll tell you what I think, you remember when it was that burning of Jarinja and Brnjak. When was that? Here, I'll remind you, in 2011, and what did people do if it wasn't for crossings? If someone set up the so-called border crossings, still put in customs, then what did people burn in 2011, if there was nothing, if something we did? I'll tell you, they set up then, in 2011. Now, Mr. Obradovic, he is not separated from Gilas, Borko Stefanovic, Vuk Jeremic, so he is not separated from them. It literally doesn't separate from them and at all the events, the gatherings, it talks about all the same things, it means the exact same thing. Then with people who directly participated in all this, from the UN, the transfer to the EU, they knew what they were doing. And then when you're sitting with these people, here, I told him the other day in his face, so while he was sitting in that bench. He didn't tell me, no, I give up what they did to Gilas, Borko, Wolf, it's a disaster. He didn't say that. He didn't want to resent the people he plays with every day, he says, he convinces the citizens that it's great for these people to return to power. Because you don't think that the group will win power, far away, that they will win power for Mr. Obradovic to be the key figure of the coalition, to be prime minister or president. You know I wouldn't. So he would help and help those people return to power, and they would only continue with the policy they had implemented until then. So, the complete Eurofanatism of Mr. Obradovic, I'm not saying for you, it seems to me that you have a completely different path.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48435	Alexander Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly is a representative body. Every MP here represents a policy. Your policy is that you are in a coalition with Dragan Djilas, with Vuk Jeremic, with DS, with Dusan Petrovic, that you are in coalition with Nebojsa Zelenovic and Milan Paunovic, who are not mistaken on the road tomorrow to sue before the Council of Europe in Strasbourg and insult their own state. So you share the same political values with them. Not to mention the fact that your 2016 election list was called – Democratic Party of Serbia – Dveri. If I'm not mistaken, the DSS is one of the key Doss parties. The Democratic Party of Serbia signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the DS 2008 with the EU. The Democratic Party of Serbia, therefore, your coalition partners, all with whom you are sitting today, not only the DSS and Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic and Dusan Petrovic, and all others in 2008 accepted that Serbia abolish all customs barriers to EU member states. And then you say you've suffered a great deal of economic damage. A construction operation, so who ruined Serbia's entire construction operation since 2000. Those who gave construction jobs to classic mobsters. You know very well who did it, the assholes, the Zemuns, they paved. Who gave them that? Well, you friends, allies from that so-called. Alliance for Serbia. It's very well known to you, and to the citizens it's even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48437	Thank you. Replica, Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48438	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I have no need to explain to Mr. Minister their discussion with Mr. Obradovic. But you know what surprises me, Mr. Minister, I'm surprised, is it possible that you don't know that in your coalition which is an official coalition, look out, the Alliance for Serbia is not yet a coalition, that we know, but whether or not it will be, it will show time. But in your coalition, Mr. Minister, you sat down Mr. Minister in your coalition of people who were in the past government. I'm very interested in what you're going to tell me, who were in power with what you're now talking about. I don't know if you're the only one allowed something that might not be allowed by someone else. Perhaps we, Mr. Minister, have seen from them who are the best, who are the strongest, who have indeed combined everything that is incompatible with both the left and right and the monarchs and the Republicans, and the antigay and gay, everything, and the SPS and SNS, and the SDPS and Vuk Draskovic and Ljajic and Zukorlic. Maybe we wanted to put it together. You're allowed to do that, and we're not allowed to do that. I'm just surprised you don't remember who's sitting in your ranks. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48439	Minister Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48440	I think you've now become the creator of a sentence that will be highly quoted in the future, about the coalition. I don't want to say it. You said what the coalition was like. But I think one part of the people with you will agree very nicely. As far as this coalition is concerned, it's really made up of different parties, different definitions, but that's where you know who's boss. That's very clear. There's not much dilemma in that coalition that dictates, who commands, who puts things in place and who fulfills the tasks. There is not much dilemma and the citizens of Serbia know that. There's not a lot of talk about someone thinking that one of those smaller parties is a key influence on those moves. No, you accepted to be the policy enforcement officers represented, above all, by Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic and the people gathered around them. As for the Serbian Progressive Party, all those who entered the coalition with us and who agreed to be on the list bearing the name – Aleksandar Vukic, agreed to be part of the value we represent. And you can ask them if they give up those values that we represent. We are convinced that they share our values, the values of the largest party of the coalition, the values that Alexander Vukic, as president of all Serbian citizens today, represents. As far as you're concerned, I'm not sure what these values are, when we're talking about gay values, which you represent, since there are different values in your coalition as well. But it seems to me that Mr. Obradovic is the most on the path of Eurofanatism. Somehow lately I can't shake that impression. And I hope that soon he will start wearing "aj lion Brussels", I think he will find that very interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48441	Thank you. Replica, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48442	We have now heard that the Alliance for Serbia is not a coalition. I don't know, Mr. Vesovic, do you listen to your president, at the same time co-ordinator of the Alliance for Serbia for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Bosko Obradovic? Mr. Bosko Obradovic is the head of all MPs who are members of the Alliance for Serbia. Mr. Bosko Obradovic, including those who are now getting it, is probably ashamed that Bosko Obradovic, their boss, but what I do, told them that the Alliance for Serbia is another political coalition, right behind the Serbian Progressive Party and threatened us, letting us know that in the next elections, we will lose to the Alliance for Serbia, represented by Bosko Obradovic together with Dragan Djilas, along with Vuk Jeremic, along with Boris Tadic, along with Dusan Petrovic, together with Zoran Lutovac. Now, I see you've stepped up a little bit, you've also worked on physical strength, you've received this Lepomir Bakic, so you're even stronger now. That's what your president said -- you're a coalition that, according to public opinion polls, is second only to the Serbian Progressive Party. Mr. Vesovicu, with all due respect that I have for you, I think that you must be with yourself and within the Dvora, and then with your coalition partners, to agree on what you are – a coalition, some new political party, an informal organisation, the extended hand of Dragan Djilas, Miskovic, some foreign embassies. So, the problem of your political identity can't be solved by us, you have to do it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48443	Thank you. Replica, Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48444	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I will try in one replica to answer both Mr. Minister and Mr. Martinovic, because it is quite evident that it is the same story. I have no doubt or problem admitting to you both that you've been doing politics a lot longer than I have and that you may know it better. But trust me, it's not going to convince me that what you're saying, and what's definitively false, I believe it. So when we talk about the boss story, I understand who has the boss. That, after all, is clearly said by Mr. Minister, and who wonders and who shares the values. It is not true that Mr. Obradovic mentioned the coalition, but rather another political group, and coalitions are usually made before the elections. But I repeat again, you're skillfully political, which is undeniable, and with experience, which is also undeniable to you, you're constantly changing thesis. I was just asking you if you remember that in your definitive coalition, you have many of those who were in that power that you were attacking so much? Or did you forget that? Either I'm wrong, or that's not true? I'm interested in that segment. And if this is going to be a coalition, which is for now a group, it's going to show time. That the second political group is in force in Serbia, it is currently a fact. What happens next will show time again. But please answer me this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48445	Minister Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48446	It is not disputed that Mr. Martinovic and I are on the same line. We belong to the same political group and share the same values regarding the party we belong to and that is not disputed. Anyway, this isn't about our political experience, it's about the political coalition that you belong to. Whether it's called a group or a coalition, Mr. Obradovic was very clear there, completely clear. He came here to perform on behalf of you. You know, when you're performing on someone's behalf, he's still boasting, he's coming on TV, I personally watched, I buttoned up my suit, I said with a smile -- I represent here, I'm the one representing this group, don't take me, I'm the one who's about to sit in some chair. But since he was very proud, it was nice to us and we remembered that he represents a coalition, which represents all these parties, all individuals, and Mr Gilas and Miskovic and Vuk... So, he's Balshi's boss. That's right. It seems to me that the hierarchical relationship between Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradovic is very clear. I don't think anyone in this room has any doubt, and I mean beyond this room, who's the boss, the boss, and who decides what moves. And, of course, who's funding all these activities. Mr. Obradovic may be funding these activities, but if you convince us, we might be able to believe that. It's hard, but we'd do our best. Because we are ready to accept this dialogue openly. However, I think these values of Eurofanatism among Mr Obradovic are increasingly present.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48447	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48448	I must remind you that the founding assembly, the Alliance for Serbia coalition, was held in Sava Centre on 2 September 2018 and on that occasion was one of the leaders of the coalition, Borko Stefanovic, said -- that it was a coalition and every day Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, reminds Serbian citizens that the Alliance for Serbia, more than a coalition, is not only a coalition, but that it is more than a political party. It's some new political formula that you've offered us. One more thing to tell you, in the last show, "The Questionnaire" on RTS, when Marija Obradovic was not allowed to mention the name Dragan Djilasa, Bosko Obradovic rebelled, and you are now expanding your hands, and I will explain why I am saying this, Bosko Obradovic rebelled because he was presented only as the leader of the DVeri Movement, when he said so, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia. So that's what the man said, and that's what all the viewers could see and hear. So you're in a coalition with those who have ruined Serbia both in political and economic terms and in any other sense. You're in a coalition with a man who publicly admits that he earned 25m euros from 2007 to 2012, I mean Dragan Gilas. You are in a coalition with Vuk Jeremic, who acknowledges that there are over sevenm euros in his private account. You are in a coalition with people who are going to say tomorrow in Strasbourg that Serbia is in the same order, these are otherwise the words of Nebojsje Zelenovic your coalition partner, that Serbia is a state that is in line with Turkey and Moldova, because it says political opponents are being killed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48449	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 6:00 p.m. if necessary. No doubt an interesting subject, but I think we've had a lot of discussion on the subject outside the agenda. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Miladanovic and Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48450	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, honourable fellow Members of the People, my colleague Stefana Miladanovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. First, let me say what article one is. Article 1 speaks of the subject matter of the law, and always the subject of the law announces the content and essence of the law, and that is why we think it is very important. The amendment that we have submitted to this article is, in fact, the support, the great support of the bill. Why? In Article 1, when it comes to the subject matter of the law, the law regulates the reduction of the risk of disasters on the one hand, and on the other hand, the management of emergency situations, I single out only those two things. What does the law insist on? It insists on a risk reduction system, management system, part of the national security system. So, in order to implement all this, the law establishes a single and integration system to solve problems in this area. Now, we have just intervened in this article, asking that the word "establishs a system, reduces the risk of disasters" and so on. So it's not just an arrangement, it's being established. Why? We wanted to point out the great importance, the great quality of this law when it comes to three things. First-prevention, preparedness, disaster resistance, elemental accidents, etc. Second, effective response when disaster occurs. Third – it is the efficiency of removing the consequences of disasters. I will return to the first, just to take the opportunity to, when it comes to this second effective response, when disasters arise, use the opportunity to give recognition and give strong support to the MUP and the Emergency Sector and to all the people who have dealt with it in a great deal of effort, to the great results that they have achieved, but with all due respect, with great recognition and great gratitude, it is a reaction when disaster occurs. Here the law insists that as much as possible be done until disaster occurs. So he insists on a unique, integration system in which everyone has a value. So on the preventive system, to the system of resilience, to make it as ready as possible to welcome such a thing and from today it is a very important issue in the world, Europe, and Serbia. Elemental disasters and disasters have, as I say, gone a long way, and been denied to come out with this law, with this bill of law, with the aim of establishing a single system, not only to act effectively when disasters occur, but to do as much as possible to reduce the risk of these disasters and to prevent them. So our intervention was precisely to give the meaning of exactly the insistence of the law on it, so we asked that the word "establishment" be put on, otherwise it's not fundamental, no change, it's more precision. I am taking another chance to give strong support to the proposed Risk Reduction and Emergency Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48451	Thank you. A letter from Marjana Marash submitted to the First Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) MEPs of the SDPS jointly submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Slavica Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48452	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister with Associates, the honourable fellow MPs, the amendment we have submitted, we wanted to correct the failure, as Article 1 speaks of the subject of the law and in the part where it is said - the reaction to the consequences of the disaster, we considered it right to stand "response to disasters and the mitigation of the consequences of the disaster". Since one of the objectives of adopting this Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management is to improve the overall framework for the establishment of an efficient, integrated system, reduce the risk of disasters and manage emergency situations in order to reduce existing risks, prevent future risks and respond more effectively to disasters. Also, one of the goals is to identify the assessment and monitoring of risks and plan responses to these risks. We believe that Article 1 does not clearly define this part relating to the response and mitigation of the consequences of disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48453	On Article 1 of the amendment, Commissioner Danica Bukvic, does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48454	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(1). Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management. This amendment should contribute to the more precise content of this provision. One of the main shortcomings in existing laws is insufficient preventive activity. A number of natural disasters, floods, fires and earthquakes occurred in the previous period. The floods that took place in 2014, when half the Lazarec municipality was underwater, and it was particularly dramatic in the mining giant Kolubara, pointed to the lack of an existing legal act, but at the same time brought about changes in people's consciousness. The damage to the floods at that time was, as we know, huge. The new law lays down new rules and prevents are placed at the heart of the activity and the first plan. Much more will be done in a period when nothing is happening, and that should contribute as much to a more successful prevention than possible disasters. It is also significant to point out that local self-government units play a primary role in disaster risk management, and this role is supported by all relevant state and regional institutions. Also, the city's municipalities on the territory of the city of Belgrade are given the authority of local self-government in these cases, and they will receive adequate funds for these activities, which is significant for our municipality of Lazarec. The paper is also a potential for international co-operation, both in the area of prevention and in the area of providing, or receiving, international assistance. This law is in line with the EU accession process and the opening of Chapter 27. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the bill in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48455	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48456	Thank you for noticing. I think it's really important, about the powers that city municipalities are getting, and that, I was just the first day of 2014, the first hours when the floods started in Lazarevec, it's important that the city municipality has the opportunity to react, because Lazarevic as the municipality that is not in the city's largest centre, so to the Lazarets himself, you have, in fact, certain, to the southern parts of the municipality there are 80 kilometers from downtown Belgrade, and only the capacity of the municipality to react and local headquarters are important help to the population, until the Emergency Sector is directed, of course, in case of major disasters, more important assistance. As for this amendment of yours, regarding early and timely time, we have defined ourselves as early, because it is a termology used both in domestic and foreign legislation, therefore, and in other laws that govern this area in the Republic of Serbia and those that operate through the Hydrometeorological Institute and those that act through "The Waters of Serbia" and the Ministry of Defence. The point is the truth. So, I totally agree, it could have been timely, in terms of essence, is that in time notice, react, provide necessary intervention to prevent any disaster. We've defined ourselves, I say, for early, just because it's a termology that exists everywhere and so that we don't normly maybe a confusing provision that might be different in different laws, we've put ourselves on the line for this, but we could also accept your proposal. Anyway, I think the point is the same, and it's good that we're working together to make this really the best thing possible for the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48457	Thank you. The first amendment was submitted by Daniel Stojadinovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48458	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr. Maric with his associates, I have tabled an amendment to the bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. The objective of this amendment and the proposal is a more adequate term to contribute to the more precise content of the provision. I pointed out last week how important the bill is, because reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations is national and is a local priority. Everyone has the right to protect against the consequences of disasters, without discrimination, and protecting and saving human lives has priority over all other protections. Hence, the risk assessment, preventive measures and activities taken are very important, and disaster risk management, based on the coordination of all entities, is even more important. The aim of this law is a legal arrangement for the establishment of a single and united system, consistent with the real needs of protecting and saving the population and material goods from elementary and other disasters, and that is its main objective, especially since we already have experience from 2014 and I somehow see this bill as a complement and correcting of what proved to be inadequate a few years ago. It is also a newspaper and international co-operation provided for in the Bill's proposal and gives the possibility to conclude a contract with international organisations, and this is the same from practice, that it was not a team of Danes and these other people who helped, it is difficult to release so quickly what was happening in 2014 and this is not just about the people, the great advantage of these international organisations and their societies is in the equipment itself. This proposal is given in importance, and this is its greatest benefit, preventive measures and activities, above all, to assess the risk of disasters, the plan for protection and rescue as basic documents for effective risk management. What I would like to add to this at the end, I would like to highlight the importance of the prevention and education of the youngest, with whom it started a few years ago through various aspects of training, through various aspects of promotional materials that have an educational character and develop awareness of the importance of protection against various dangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48459	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48460	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, I am reporting on this amendment submitted by the MPs Bukvic and my colleague Stojadinovic. I think they are right and that this amendment should have been accepted, that in Article 1(1), instead of saying: “early” stands either on time or on time. I'm telling you this because, simply from experience and personal experience, my municipality of Svilajnac was one of the most endangered municipalities in May's floods in 2014. So, I think that at that time or in good time he reacted or the Regional Emergency Station, which was supposed to follow all the water streams in the territory and the county, and especially our municipalities, because we were threatened by the Resava River, or by the lush streams that came from the surrounding hills, so that, in due time or time, she reacted to or the Emergency Staff, regional, or competent water companies that were in those rainy days, which lasted for weeks, not days, followed by water streams and waterways, and that in time informed the municipal headquarters, many of our citizens would have been already in the evening, ten hours ago, informed of the coming huge quantities of water. This is how we in Svilinec learned relatively late that great water would come, so we spent the whole night saving mostly material goods, what could have been done in some early, or late afternoons to be saved. Speaking of these consequences after the flood, taught such catastrophic events in 2014, it is my simple duty and duty to point out that we are in the municipality, or municipal leadership, taking steps to regulate the Resava River in three stages of mouth in the Velika Morava River and all over the village of Sedlara and Subotica. The value of these works is 2,700,000 euros. The works are going on a lot. Three more streams of water are regulated, so I hope that the Svilian will never again be in a position to experience that fate as it was in May 2014. So, I think it should still stand, to be precise. That's why I'm asking you to accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48461	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48462	In an attempt to explain one of the previous speakers, the MP who submitted the amendment, I also have amendments here, as you said – both timely and timely, but the term "early" refers to that very, therefore, early warning. The term was chosen, only early, thought before maybe any indication, but only based on the projection we have, that you can already do the warnings, and then, of course, everything else. It is not the essence of this word, whether it will write early, timely, or timely. The point is, it's working. The point is whether local headquarters, regionally, will all others take the seriousness of the tasks ahead of them. So what our mission was to provide for this law and the possibility, and we did so, so that the Republic Staff could disband the municipal or any other headquarters that didn't meet or untimely fulfil the orders, or we could see that it wasn't successful and that it couldn't fulfill those tasks that needed to protect the lives of the population. That is why we have brought this measure, we have made it possible for the Republic Staff to be the one who can solve the issue, and when such a situation, we hope that it will not happen, but when it does, at the same time, we have, of course, given the opportunity through the other members of the law that these municipal headquarters get more jurisdiction and that they get the opportunity to carry out their obligations in a way that we do not have to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48463	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48464	Thank you, Madam President. At first, I would like to highlight the really great importance of this session and the draft legislation on the agenda, not only in the area covered by Minister Stefanovic, the area of the MUP, but in the area of the judiciary, by introducing a series of new institutes, adequately responding to the needs of society and what is considered to be the progress of society. In any case, this session will change, when the laws are passed, I hope in the course of this week, to a large range of different areas and to improve the functioning of institutions in the areas of internal affairs, emergency situations and justice. As far as this law is concerned, which is new and which, I can freely say, is an adequate reaction, an adequate response to the negative experiences that we, as a state, as a society, have had in the face of emergency situations and disasters and represent, I can freely say, one strategic document, one synthesis of all possible aspects and problem solving. My colleagues pointed out a great deal of prevention here, they pointed out education, and I would point out something that proved to be a weakness in the previous period, and unfortunately led to the fact that as a state, as a society, we faced catastrophic floods and fortunately that the Ministry, the Army and the Emergency Sector were well organized, we successfully overcame all those weaknesses, shortcomings and failures, the neglect of our obligations that we had in the previous period. Here I would like to emphasise the integrity of the entities involved in addressing the risk reduction of disasters and emergency management. Just in the previous period, it was the least worked on. It was not a matter of pointing out the importance of connecting economic operators, local self-government, state authorities and citizens and their need for joint work to address these problems. So I have to give a few characteristics, that's my impression, that's my approach to solving and passing this law. First of all, I have to say that this law has been taken seriously. So the seriousness in solving the problem. Another is the comprehensive coverage of issues related to the reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management. Second, as a lawyer, I have to highlight an excellent legal standard. Technically, it's really well done. What is often respected here by the ruling coalition, the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this law shows, based on experience, will and determination to resolve it, is a question of decentralisation. It is this law that shows the will to decentralisation, abandoning and seeing the importance of local self-government in combating these problems. In this regard, when all these issues are considered, when all entities involved in the fight against disasters and in emergency management are integrated, there can indeed be a total development of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period, and that is the intensity of this amendment that I have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48465	My colleague Marinkovic, after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48466	I would like to agree with my colleague, Jovan Palalic, on behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group. So this is about the laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has handed over to Parliament, which are of strategic importance to the country's development and are dealing with what is the key thing in the 21st century, so in decades ahead, which is the security of the state, the security of economic operators, the security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that, in the context of this bill on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management, there are the best and best-quality solutions that, in line with modern policy and management and risk management, will lead to these cases, natural disasters, what comes from nature, we can act preventively and we can preserve our citizens and the resources that the Republic of Serbia has. Of course, I will agree with colleagues who spoke about the fact that in 2014 the MUP led Nebojsa Stefanovic, but also the Serbian Army headed by then Minister Bratislava Gasic, Chief of Staff Dikovic, and how well and quality they reacted and, of course, only the organisation that the Serbian Ministry of Emergency and the Serbian Ministry of Emergency has led to the salvation of dozens and hundreds of lives. What I want to finish my speech is that the Serbian Ministry of Transport is not only working and has no focus on emergency situations, but the same situation with regard to traffic safety, but also uncompromising and unfavourable fighting against organised crime and corruption. Of course, we will only be able to support Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic for a policy he has defined and with a 21st-century security policy, which is in the best interests of the state of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48467	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48468	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my amendment refers to the development of the Emergency Sector and, of course, when we talk about a bill on reducing the risk of disasters and management in emergency situations, we can talk in terms of the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, taking into account the great importance of this area. It is very important that the provisions are in line with the real needs of protecting and saving the population and material goods from natural and other disasters. The more precise definition of certain provisions will also affect the more effective application of the law. It is necessary for all entities to know their rights and obligations, and in particular it is necessary for all entities participating in such actions to know what the consequences are unless the provisions of the law are complied with. Of course, the legal norms that have been implemented are either taken over from international law or taken over from national legislation by some of the EU member states and will certainly be the highest standard in the normisation of areas that have just the right to protect life, integrity, natural goods or property. The proposed solutions aim at a comprehensive standard of preventive measures and activities to reduce the risk of disasters, effective response in case of occurrence of elementary and other disasters, as well as effective removal of the consequences in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work in an area affected by an accident within the shortest time period. The most important thing is to ensure a high degree of security for citizens, and in addition to the paper on international co-operation, both in the area of prevention and in the area of the removal of consequences, i.e. the exchange of humanitarian aid. The accent is placed on the protection of vulnerable groups and on the area of gender equality. The first plan lays down principles, measures and activities relating to strengthening the resilience of individuals, as well as communities to the consequences of disasters and to a greater willingness to react in the event of accidents or disasters. Now I would also like to highlight the risk reduction plan to be taken over a three-year period for the level of the Republic, the autonomous province and the local self-government unit. The objective is to take preventive measures and to provide financial resources for the implementation of infrastructure works in order to reduce the risk of an accident or danger. In this regard, the determination of the risk zone is precisely in order to prevent the action. For example, construction may be prohibited in some areas if the area is such that there is a high degree of doubt or certainty that the unrelievable consequences of people’s lives or material goods will occur. I have to point out, and that is something that is very necessary so far that we do not have a single risk database in Serbia's space and that is why I would like to commend the introduction of a risk register that will contain all the data for all kinds of risks to Serbia's entire territory. In one part, these data will be available to all citizens, but in another part of course, some specific data will only be available to certain state authorities. Given all this, I think we should support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48469	Thank you. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Markovic's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48470	Thank you. With the amendment I submitted to the draft law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management, I wanted to stress the importance of improving the Emergency Sector. Prevention is certainly the most important segment when we talk about reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. The security of citizens must be the first priority, and just the adoption and application of this law will contribute to increasing the level of security. Early warning and alerting through a newly formed service made by a national centre, operational centres and specialised civil protection units for the alarm and public alarm system will certainly contribute to a significant reduction in material damage, but also human casualties. It is extremely important to define the obligations of companies and other legal entities to engage in a public alarm system. But also the obligation of broadcasting and television stations to transmit relevant information. I would certainly mention the obligations of mobile operators, business owners, housing and other buildings. In this way we show responsibility and ability to make right except with the potential risks of disasters, but the awareness of society is strengthened and the necessity to engage more and certainly contributes to this debate, because this is how we inform our citizens. And I believe we will achieve full consent when it comes to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48471	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Markovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48472	I thank the chairman. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my amendment is heading towards supporting this bill, a bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. He specifically affirms the modernisation of the Ministry of Emergency Sector. I think it's very important, and I think it's in line with the current policy conducted by the MUP and I want to point out that the ministry has done so far on this matter, so on the modernisation of the Emergency Sector on the procurement of new equipment, in terms of the purchase of new vehicles and everything else. It's important to stress that because in some media you can't hear it most of the time. That's not news for some media in Serbia. When police administrations in Serbia get 72 new stamps, that's not news to them. When the Emergency Sector gets 14 new fire rescue vehicles that's not news to them, when we get guarantees and expectations that by the end of New Year we'll get 60 new fire rescue vehicles, that's not news to them. For them, news is something else. They have other priorities, when it comes to it, Lepora Bakic, etc. So they deal mainly with attacks on SNS and Alexander Vukic. And as we can see, physical attacks have started lately. You saw what happened yesterday in Vranja, therefore, the chairman of the Committee of the People's Party in Vranja, Djorđe Ristic and the National Party's committee, I guess Dragan Pavlovic, without any reason insulted the president and members of the election committees, when it comes to elections for the National Minority Council. And that's what the city administration of Vranja said, so the mayor of the city's administration. In the yard of an institution where the vote was held, the chairman of the Committee of the People's Party without any reason attacked them by insulting and calling them gypsies and Bulgarians. So this is how the chairman of the Committee of the People's Party behaves in Vranj. And now I have to ask a question, what do the elections for national minority councils have to do with the People's Party? I can't understand this at all, what kind of relationship is the People's Party with elections for national minority councils? I know some other politicians who tried to fake themselves as members of national minorities and I can understand that somewhere, but here I can't understand what Vuk Jeremic has to do with the elections for national minorities' councils. So, I just want to express my full support for the efforts the MUP is making when it comes to the Emergency Sector and to supporting these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48473	According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Diana Vukomanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48474	Thank you, Vice President. I appeal to the 107th Protection of the Dignity of the Assembly and I ask you to as chairman of the protection of dignity. A fellow MP made several, so to speak, verbal, serious violations, beginning with those concerning the dignity of the national minority election process, which are full citizens of Serbia. It was a comprehensive process that took months to prepare, and it is truly unworthy that he uses me to put it this way, a non-substantiating mark for members of the national minorities. I won't even quote what he called members of the Roma national minority. My colleague Markovic, one policy rule is true, and that is not to testify about something you have not seen with your own eyes. Tell me, with what eye did you see what was going on in Vranj? Left or right? Or have you read a statement from your party headquarters and now you're interpreting something... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48475	My colleague Vukomanović, I give you a warning. (Diana Vukomanovic: Can you explain why? No, I have no intention of explaining. Because at first you came to me, and then you literally and brutally started talking to your colleague Markovic. You have no right. (Diana Vukomanovic: I have no right? And he has the right to fail? That's what you're saying. (Diana Vukomanovic: You see the stenogram as he called the Roma National Minority. ) First, colleague Markovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48476	The chairman, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, a member of the 104th colleague tried to advertise the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to replicate me. In doing so, she brought forth a salva of some untruth, probably in an attempt to defend something that is indefensible. To try and say something didn't happen, what happened. I looked, read, and quoted how the chairman of her party's committee addressed national minorities. So, the chairman of the Vranj board, its parties insulted national minorities, calling them gypsies and Bulgarians. I was quoting that. And when it comes to the eye, left or right eye, I don't know what kind of eyes the previous speaker means, but I'd like to ask with what eye her President Vuk Jeremic was looking at, probably with his third eye, when he announced that there was going to be some kind of referendum on November 4th. Just to remind her that November 4th has passed, today is November 5th and there has been no referendum.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48477	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48478	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 103, 106, 107, 108, 109. You, Mr. Chairman, must hold a session and not fall under the influence of a coalition or alliance representative or a joint venture I call Boskomir-Lepomir. So, apparently they think they've put on some muscle and the lady's talking about violence. The police minister is here and he needs to tell us whether it is true that a member of the Boskomir-Lepomir alliance in Vrbas attacked a police officer only because they assisted in the destruction of an illegal garden of a cafe, belonging to sympathisers or a descendant himself. So we don't have to be in Vranje to know that this coalition is prone to violence, first of all, Mrs. Gojkovic can best confirm it, some journalists, etc., but we all saw in video clips a report from the scene, where Mr. Novakovic, a member of the descending party, is chasing cops, hitting them just because they assisted in removing an illegal object. So, Mr. Chairman, in the future, in order to prevent any other violence, you have to warn any speaker, or mentioning a friend, when they start talking and defending themselves from the violence you have committed, because this can lead to this, this negation, to repeated violence in any part of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48479	Thank you. My colleague Vukomanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure or what? (Diana Vukomanovic: Replica, mentioned. You can't get a replica. It was about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (Diana Vukomanovic: didn't he mention me? And, Markovic? No, and this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48480	Article 27. Mr Arsic, a few moments ago, we attended a similar situation when we from the SRS asked a question, since we were disabled as part of parliamentary issues, so we again asked the minister about the situation of greater crime and more dangerous crime than these physical attacks, the controversial ones that are happening. It was said by the chairman, or speaker of the assembly, that such attempts to abuse the Rules of Procedure or such a discussion would be punishable personally. You sit here, chair, and let the debate take place on the subject, which is, in any case, justified in parliament to discuss, including such things as the unloved scenes that took place in Serbia the past days. But that means you have different arches when it comes to the SRS parliamentary group compared to other parliamentary groups. I'd like to ask you, if it's already an attitude that you can't speak outside of the amendment, beyond the agenda, that this applies to everyone. Because it is indicative from a previous period, that here when those parties, or MP groups that are Western favorites, are allowed by running, artificially creates a crisis in the debate and then allows them to have more time to prove to be an authentic opposition. Or, as they say, only the opposition is what they determine to be the opposition and nothing else. Only democracy is what they determine to be democracy and nothing else. That's why the Rules of Procedure are here to apply equally to all MPs and I ask you to stick to or to make a precedent, so you say what the President of the Assembly said, that it no longer applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48481	counterpart Mircic, president of the National Assembly, Mrs Maja Gojkovic, said that because at one point it went beyond any framework for advertising the Rules of Procedure. All MP groups have the same rights and everyone knows that the SRS parliamentary club is the largest opposition parliamentary club. I don't need to say it again, everyone knows it in Serbia and it can't change in this session. My colleague Vukomanović, is it according to the Rules of Procedure? Do you want the Assembly to plead? But the Rules of Procedure say yes or no. Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48482	Yes, I want him to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48483	Thank you. We're moving on to the amendment work. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Filipovski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48484	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, disasters cannot be eliminated from our lives, but their consequences can be greatly reduced if we are responsible, if we are well informed, if we are working on prevention. The experiences we've had in the past years when we've faced a number of disasters that have resulted in both human lives and enormous material damage, show that emergency situations threaten security, but threaten the entire survival of inhabited areas. The objective of the emergency sector is to prevent risk, challenge and mitigate the consequences of different risks and disasters, which is confirmed by this bill. However, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for this emergency law, because I believe that immediately in Article 1 of the Law, the accent must be placed on the constant strengthening of the emergency sector, in strengthening capacity, in the purchase of equipment, in the training of the people, in building standard operating procedures and in clear mechanisms of responsibility. Why does it matter? Because only a fundamentally organized emergency system can respond to all the challenges and be an excellent prevention in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48485	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48486	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Honored Deputy Prime Minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, a flood that took place in the Republic of Serbia in May 2014, in proportions not recorded in the last 120 years, has put lives, health and property at risk. More than 1.6 million people or 22% of the total population in 38 municipalities in central and western Serbia. The flood has endangered largely and destroyed property of greater value, making it impossible for businesses to operate, then schools and other educational institutions, health institutions, social protection institutions and other entities in flooded areas, and particularly the smooth work of the Republic of Serbia's energy system. The adverse effects of the flood were particularly evident in the areas of agriculture, production, warfare, livestock farming. So the planted agricultural products were largely destroyed, and the stock fund was largely endangered, and to some extent destroyed. It is of great importance that this law transfers part of jurisdiction to local self-government in order to double the speed of response. Since my amendment concerns reducing the risk of flashes, I want to point out the following. To prevent floods, the township of Mladenovac has taken what is in its power to prevent the consequences. They hired the Public Enterprise "Serbia", which carried out the work to arrange the first-row stream. During 2018, hand-cutting and machine-cutting of the banks of the river Lug was performed, as well as the commercial channels on the territory of the city municipality of Mladenovac. Also, the Public Enterprise "Belgrade", works were working to arrange second-class waterways between February and April 2018, from 3,900 metres in length and from April to October, in the length of 1,500 metres. In previous years, we've had a constant flood of agricultural surfaces, but this year we don't. What is important to point out is that everything this government builds and local self-government where the SNS is in power, works smartly, hardly and responsibly, and that every dinar invested in prevention is repeatedly paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48487	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48488	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, the amendment I have submitted, refers to Article 1. The draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management and further defines this area with an emphasis on the prevention of floods. I think it's a priority to arrange an area that concerns the preservation and protection of human lives. The system of reaction in emergency situations of all relevant entities and the involvement of the community in the system of measures and activities is crucial in managing and easing the emerging emergency situations and preserving human lives. It is quite logical that the accent in the law is put right on the emergency response system, as early warning and alarming to the coming dangers is necessary. We have had a whole series of emergency situations from previous years that have caused great damage both in human lives and in material goods. Most of the signs left floods in 2014, in May, in Obrenovac, Sapac and other municipalities in Serbia. More than 30,000 inhabitants from affected areas have been evacuated, with estimated damage estimated to be about a billion euros. Baji's garden, Kosjerić, Gornji Milanovac, Krupanj, Čačak, Kraljevo, Valjevo, Nis, Lebanese and other municipalities are all places where the slides and dives have been activated. More than 4,5 thousand kilometers of roads and 250 bridges were damaged and destroyed. Thousands of acres of hurricanes remain flooded. The then government, headed by Alexander Vukic, together with the military, police, firefighters and many volunteers, has managed to solve all the problems that have arisen from these disasters. During two nights, more than 4.5 thousand people were pulled out of Obrenovac alone, in the most difficult conditions possible. In fact, all the problems stemmed from an unsettled and unsecured infrastructure that had not been restored for 20, 30 years and more. That erosions and slides were slowly causing increasing damage, and there was no reaction to the moment that led to the fact that existing objects were not strong enough to withstand natural disasters. That year, Serbia suffered great damage. But despite everything, this government has rebuilt, restored hundreds of houses, new roads, bridges, stripes. It has made sure to continue with normal life, it has raised the standard of all Serbian citizens and this will only increase security and affect citizens' awareness. Every year we have new situations, whether they're caused by snow, streaming, skating. Last winter, Serbia was bound with ice and snow and we had an emergency situation in a dozen municipalities, but the Interior Ministry Emergency Sector kept every situation under control, as this government is not one of those who will get into their chairs and villas, driving in new limos and putting money in their pockets. It is not this government that will use natural disasters in political advertising. This government works for its people and plans in detail how to live better. I congratulate you on the results, because only through these laws that determine the competences, tasks and obligations of all the competent authorities can we effectively cope with the elemental disasters and live safer lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48489	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48490	I thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the existing Emergency Law has drawn good solutions, but it has also pointed to certain shortcomings. The new law prevents us from becoming the center of our future activities. The law sets out a system for reducing the risk of natural disasters, with the aim of clarifying what this system covers, that is to define all areas that will be represented in the new national disaster risk management programme and emergency management. Floods that occurred in 38 municipalities of central and western Serbia in May 2014 threatened the lives, health and property of more than 1.6 million of our citizens or 22% of the total population. At the time, almost all economic operators, health institutions, social protection institutions, schools, preschool institutions were disabled, and the work of the Republic of Serbia's energy system was particularly at stake. The adverse effects of the floods at the time were particularly evident in the area of agricultural production, when the planted agricultural products were largely destroyed, and the stock fund was largely threatened, or destroyed. The most vulnerable sector was mining-energy with 32% of the total damage, while the housing, agricultural and trade sectors with about 15% of the total sector damage. According to the results, the total flood damage in flood-affected municipalities amounted to 1.7 billion euros or more than 4% of GDP. The direct consequence of floods due to interruptions in production activities is temporary job loss, i.e. employment for about 51,800 persons, so that income in the households of those persons has dropped significantly. Of course, the greatest loss in those floods was the loss of 30 human lives. Due to these losses to the lives of our citizens, the government declared three days of mourning in the entire territory of Serbia on 20 May 2014. In September 2014, it means that only four months after the May floods, and the eastern part of Serbia, the three municipalities of the Borsko County, were affected by an elementary disaster. The massive floods triggered by many slides resulted in an emergency situation in that part of Serbia. Dear citizens, these events have served as a warning and a warning that it is necessary in the Republic of Serbia to take more seriously measures such as planning and realising investments that will provide as much protection as possible of people and property as possible from the possible occurrence of new floods of greater intensity, i.e. to reduce the risk of the occurrence of adverse consequences of greater scale. Unfortunately, in 2014 the assessment of the threat and the rescue plan with the agreement received by the MUP did not have any units of local self-government or any company of economic nature, although it was a legal obligation. If there were these documents, the consequences would be much less, especially in the work of two particularly protected values, which are the life and health of our citizens. That is why SNS will vote in favour of this and other proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48491	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48492	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, today we are talking about a bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. Namely, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this Law, which is currently talking about regulating the reduction of the risk of disasters, but also talks about how valid coordination must be established between the Emergency Sector, on the one hand, and all the relevant entities involved in the process of protection and the population and goods in the Republic of Serbia participate in all this. What is also important for this law is that it defines in a very significant and detailed way the obligations of local self-government under these circumstances. Why does it matter? Well, because just about every unwanted situation that can be called a natural disaster is happening on a specific territory that belongs to appropriate local self-government. For these reasons local self-government must be adequately prepared for such a thing. First of all, I will look back at this importance, precisely because I come from a place that was repeatedly threatened by floods, it's about the Buyout, and back in ten years it's characteristic that for at least two years they were extremely risky and that at least two years the city itself was threatened by the high water supply of the Toplice River. In such circumstances, first of all, one distinct, adequate and very significant reaction from local self-government was, I would say, dominant, and I would like to commend a large response of citizens who, in such circumstances, voluntarily appeared and placed themselves at their disposal and local self-government, but also to the emergency sector and then we are at a difficult one, but in any case, coordinated and very diligent way managed to stop this monster and keep this emergency situation in some contexts, so there was no significant damage. What I would also like to say is that, in addition to this definition and the additional conditions that local self-government must meet, this law further defines the obligations of companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48493	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48494	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the basic objective and reason for the adoption of this law is the need for the system of reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, as part of the single national security system in the Republic of Serbia, to be regulated in a single way, by creating new legal conditions for the establishment of a single and integrated system, while at the same time bringing the organisation and functioning system in line with the real needs of protecting and saving the population and material goods from natural and other disasters. The municipality of Krupanj suffered the greatest damage from all the places in Podrinj and the surrounding area during the catastrophic floods in 2014. It was all destroyed. It was a dead town. With our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, at the time of the prime minister, the life has been restored to that place. Never in the history of any place has any of the high statesmen visited Krupanj so many times in a few months 13 times, as our current president did. Worked and built day and night. They've been rescheduled. built roads, bridges, waterways, sanitized rinks and damaged facilities, ambulances, reconstructed home of health, built 29 residential buildings, renovated road Krst – Korenita – Krupanj, in the length of 11 kilometers, paved road of LJubovija – Krupanj, 17.8 kilometers long, renovated dam on the Jolovišta mine of Stolica. It is known to all of us that human lives and the health of the entire population are at risk in times of disaster. At that time, outbreaks of infectious diseases occur very often, whether due to water pollution, food, inadequate hygiene, inadequate housing, stress. It is difficult to preserve the health of the population in endangered areas, but that is why prevention – the golden standard, in preventing all unwanted consequences of disasters. The municipality of Krupanj draws up an operational plan every year against floods and preventive work programmes, as well as a second-class water measure on its territory and provides funding from the budget for the implementation of them. In order to protect the city's settlement in the municipality, an anti-irrative arrangement of the upper part of the Likodra River Basin was made, by building a large number of bulkheads and thresholds, stone or concrete, as well as the rehabilitation of the corridors in the bridges area, through the Office for Public Investment Management, UNDP and UNOPS and the funds of the municipality of Krupanj. The aim of these works is to bring back the erotic and luxuriant processes to the minimum possible extent. The existing bountiful bulkheads on the Kostanička River and the river Deep are completely shut down over a long period of years, so their cleaning is planned, as well as the recovery of the waterfall on the Kostajnik River. Also, it is planned to adequately place the plantation horizontally on the isohipsis of the terrain and the overrun of the coast with massive stone material, all in order to remove the collapsing fact of the flood streams on the steep parts of these rivers. As a precautionary measure, work is carried out to clean up the riverbeds, remove application and allow smooth water swelling in the crusts, strengthen the coast with a large stone at critical locations and clean up landfills. The funds identified for this intention in the municipal budget for 2018 amount to three million dinars and work is under way to implement this programme. The municipality of Krupanj financed the construction of project technical documentation for the regulation of part of the river Likodra, Kržava and Brštice and has defined funds in 2018 for the development of project regulation of Jezava, which in 2017 caused damage to citizens and infrastructure. However, the realisation of these projects or the implementation of the regulatory work exceeds the possibilities of the municipal budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48495	Thank you. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48496	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, in order to further define the member mentioned and, in particular, to reduce the risk of accidents. Such a bill came on the agenda, certainly as a result of the work of the responsible government, which brings a solution exclusively in the interests of citizens, as a result of the removal of the accumulated problems found here as a result of irresponsible behavior for years, and with all this there is a problem that citizens in Serbia generally do not recognize their role enough, often act inertly, someone else will remove the problems, someone else will face adverse situations. For all these reasons, we have many draft laws that will allow both preventive action and all that will contribute to reducing the risk of disaster, which will affect inefficient response in the event of disasters and rapid resolution of consequences. Since we did not have sufficient awareness of the takeover of preventive activities, today responsible management in local self-government is working intensively to assess the risk and to adopt rescue and protection plans for its population. The very responsible leadership of the SNS programme, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, is considering this issue, and today we have proposals for laws that are on the agenda. Unfortunately, we have experience with the consequences of the 2014 floods where besides all the problems that have affected human life and health, a major problem has also been seen in the destruction of infrastructure, bridges, traffic, railways and other objects. Any action and any objective expected by the adoption of this law will allow positive effects through all spheres of society from units of local self-government through economic operators, citizens and certainly infrastructure protection. I will give an example of how it faces and how it works preventively, i.e. the municipality that faced the floods in 2014 and today in the municipality of Ub we have a realisation of the project relating to the construction of the discharge channel Gračica - Ub which represents the first stage as a solution to the protection of Ub from floods. The construction of a busy channel will be carried out by "Serbia", and part of the project relating to the construction of a bridge across a channel worth nearly five million and the construction of a traffic station near the canal, worth nearly six million, will be financed by the Ub municipality. So, this will solve the decades-old problem of citizens living in the banks of the Graice River. A comprehensive and careful approach to solving problems and the implementation of this law will certainly be expected only positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48497	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48498	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 1st Article of the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters in the management of emergency situations in order to further define the subject matter of this law and particularly highlight the importance of the resolution of these elemental disasters. In view of the experiences our country carries from 2014 and 2016 when we are hit by the truly catastrophic consequences of these floods, it is clear that we must take special care of risk management, about increasing our resilience to risks and dangers, but also to protect our population adequately. As I come from the municipality of Trstenik, which also suffered catastrophic consequences during 2014 when the West Morava River reached its historic maximum, but also a lush flood of the LJubostin River has caused significant damage, when the drinking water source, water supply has been compromised, but the damaged and numerous roads, facilities and agricultural production have suffered great damage. To remove the consequences, indeed, everyone, both the ministries and the citizens and volunteers, hired to return to normal as soon as possible. At that time, we adopted the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the National Assembly, in order to coordinate the reception of humanitarian aid, to set priorities, to lead the whole process of reconstruction, and all resources were used for the recovery of infrastructure, for the recovery of roads, for the recovery of bridges and for the restoration of buildings. Indeed, by the lightning reaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia at that time, Trstenik was one of the municipalities declared a priority and within a few days, with the separation of 30 million dinars, the regulated water supply issue and a stable water supply system was established for all inhabitants of the municipality of Trstenik. Serbia's military and the Ministry of Defence worked to resuscitate this field, to disinfect citizens as soon as possible to return to their homes, but also to bring humanitarian aid. What is tragic, however, and what I would like to point out is that certain leaders, certain local self-governments, have given themselves the right to have the funds that are defined and intended for the recovery of certain objects stand, that the deadlines run and stand out, that they do nothing and simply do nothing with their ingenuity and impunity to question the realization of these projects. The Solidarity Fund's resources had deadlines in which projects had to be completed and municipalities that did not comply with these deadlines that had been agreed and signed in advance would have the appropriate consequences, in terms of payment of the penalty or perhaps even repaying the entire amount of money without realised projects. In 2016, we found projects in Triestenik, with the arrival of SNS at the head of local self-government by drawers to resuscitate objects that stood with the deadlines that were high, which were unsigned, because then, the former president of the municipality of Trstenik could not accept that his mandate had ended. The question is raised, of course, whether it was someone's interest to see these projects fail, not to be realised, to keep citizens from being denied for these projects, just because the former president of the municipality couldn't accept that he had to leave his post. Of course, we've managed to finish the projects, we've managed to renovate schools and facilities, renovate roads, slides, even the bridge now, but in any case, it's unacceptable for one head, one president of the community to have so many rights and to endanger its inhabitants and not allow them to implement these projects as soon as possible and bring life back to normal. Therefore, through this amendment, I would like to put a special accent precisely on the recovery of the consequences of these fundamental disasters and on the responsibilities of local self-government, because they only relate to what is being prepared, which is an assessment of the risk of flooding and an adequate reaction, in order for all these disasters to be warned and the consequences to be as little as possible and therefore I believe that this provision should also find its place in the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48499	The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP LJubisa Stojmirović? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić? Does anyone want a word? Yeah. There you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I'll make a little introduction before I start discussing the amendment itself. The common denominator of the world of judicial and police laws is the improvement of the construction of a permanent system of government, which is why it deserves all praise. The system means that one policy or a couple of depraved politicians will never happen again to reform the judiciary by their own order and thus destroy the judicial system, the judicial authority, that is, the executive authority, and the entire state. I was very pleased with the Minister's discussion when he said a career advancement system was being introduced, without external influence. This means that it reduces the maximum possibility of criminalising such a sensitive organ, such as the police, and that it will never happen again to kill the prime minister and the police, and that then the resolute minister sits in his place, instead of being replaced at our general shame. Also, it is very important information that it will no longer be possible to reduce the personal incomes of members, who are honorably doing their job. I know examples in such a sensitive, so responsible place, such as special units, let's say an honest man serves for 20 years, and then he goes 40 years and is no longer in combat, thus reducing his personal income and up to 30%. In a way, when he needs it most, when he has children, when he enters loans, when he's schooling his family, he comes into a situation to be punished in some way. It won't be anymore, it's very important to all of them. As someone who highly appreciates cops, I support absolute protection both physically and materially, because it is about preserving order and state order, and also national dignity, and national dignity has no price. Now, that doesn't understand this recycling of political waste, under a working title, we have now heard that it is still the working title of the Alliance for Serbia, and for them everything has a price. The inspiration that the amendment, especially to point out the prevention of flood mitigation, prompted me by the disaster in 2005, when villages died, especially Jasa Tomic in southern and medium Banat, in the poor municipality of Secanj. In those same years, the provinceal government is investing huge funds in the construction of a Danube key with three paths, tennis, volleyball, basketball courts, flowering alleys, and I don't mind New Sad being the most beautiful city in the country, there living most of my family, but a kilometer of that key costs, like 10 kilometers of rush to save the Banatian villages, that no more can happen to the Banatian patrons run out of roof over their heads, without their conditions and bread crusts. And these floods are always predictable, because whenever snow melts from Carpathia, otherwise quiet banana rivers go wild. Fortunately, this policy of even development, let's call it, has gone into the past, and for all this I support the construction of the regulation of the legal system, the final system of the state, which makes sense as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48501	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Comrade Savkić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48502	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, the Honorable fellow Members of Parliament, for having submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and management in emergency situations reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the recovery of floods. “ The area has so far been regulated by the 2009 Emergency Law, and its amendments and additions, adopted in 2011 and 2012. However, in 2014, we met with an unprecedented disaster until then, during the May floods, the assets and health of more than 1 million and 600,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia were at risk, in 38 municipalities, and the total flood damage was 1.7 billion euros, representing 4% of GDP. Reacting to the catastrophic floods and floods that occurred after the floods, the Serbian government declared a state of emergency in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia on May 15th, at the same time in order to respond to the disaster, it had a massive effect on the call and assistance of the International Community, and a crisis flood headquarters was established for the Emergency Sector under the MUP, along with crisis headquarters in each of the affected municipalities. Therefore, starting with experience gained by applying the Emergency Act, the international commitments and the latest policy flows, risk reduction, created the need for comprehensive standardisation, temporary measures of activity, the adoption of a proposal for a law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management, will significantly contribute to reducing the risk of disasters, increasing the effectiveness of disaster response in the event of disaster, as well as effective resolution, resulting from disasters. With everything in mind, the proposal for a law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management will have a particularly positive effect on removal and resolution, which will contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48503	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48504	Thank you, Chairman. Dear guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, from 2008 to 2013 have been significantly reduced funds to invest in the water industry. All we can think of is robbery privatisations, when 599 companies were devastated. Among other things, it happened with water companies. So, these water companies no longer existed, there was no surveillance, there was no function, and that's why we had a tragedy, among other things, first 2012, then in 2014. Instead of investing 11 billion dinars in the recovery of the water industry, the water industries, we experienced an enormous disaster, where the damage was one billion and 700m euros or 4% of the country's GDP. Something like that must never happen again. The "Serbians" recorded 238 sites to be rescheduled. That's a lot, but it's a lot less than what we've been through. We can't protect ourselves from disasters, but we can alleviate them. Therefore, work on prevention is primarily necessary, also in education, and then there is a great degree and humanity, that is, empathy. I'd only list a few examples of major disasters that really took lives and emptied our budget. It's immeasurable to talk about life and budget, but it's necessary to get rid of it. We remember only Velika Morava and Jagodina a few years ago – 300 hectares of agricultural land under the flood, 360 households and a thousand and a half hectares of unusable; in the territory of Užica, in the area of Lužnička valley, due to the flood of the river Lužnica, flooded 520 hectares; in Gornji Milanovac damaged Corridor 11, etc. I come from the Voždovac municipality, which by 2013 did not have a general urban plan, you may think. Then it was built who was where he wanted it and how he wanted it. When we brought in this general urban plan and marked the risk areas, wild construction stopped, and now we know where, what and how we're building. But not just that. When people are responsible, such as the Serbian Progressive Party, it is then found in the budget of money and built in the Jajinci Jelezovci Collector, which will serve as the main drain drain drain for the village of Podaval, i.e. for 35,000 inhabitants who had septic caves until then. Also, the Kumodraski Rain Collector was built and this solved a long-standing problem with water draining for 20,000 inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48505	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does he want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48506	I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, which specifically defines a reduction in flood risk in point 3. In Article 1 The bill is defined as the subject of the law itself under conditions of disaster, but also of preventing and strengthening the resilience and willingness of the community to react to it. That's why the amendment wanted me to draw attention to the problem of natural disasters that have serious material damage to the consequences. Serbia is very vulnerable and exposed to the functioning of natural dangers. One of the main natural dangers, among other things, is the flood. The situation in which we found ourselves in 2014, when extreme rainfall caused the most devastating floods recorded in more than 100 years since the record was kept, pointed out the importance of adopting a strategic approach to elemental disasters and mobilised the government, ministries, municipalities and all other actors to make greater efforts, not only in building one system that will integrate disaster reduction and risk management activities into current policy and practice, but also in effective and effective activities to address the consequences of elemental disasters. Risks are not the same throughout Serbia's territory. They vary depending on the type of danger, exposure, vulnerability and capacity to act in emergency situations. However, floods pose a major hydrometeorological hazard. The valleys of larger streams, where settlements are located, where agricultural land, infrastructure and industry are at high risk of floods that occur most often in the Vojvodina region and along the Sava, Drina, Velika, South and West Morava rivers. The data that has drawn my attention specifically is that potentially blue areas in Serbia reach an area of about 1.6 million hectares and have about 500 larger settlements and more than 500 larger industrial buildings, about 1,200km of rail tracks and more than 4,000km of roads. Taking into account the projections of climate change, which suggest that we can expect a reduction in the total amount of rainfall, but therefore an increase in the number of heavy intensity rains, due to which flash floods are just emerging, is crucial investment in prevention, as one dinar invested in prevention replaces eight dinars invested in the resolution of consequences. This law transforms the old system, which has largely focused on emergency response into a more proactive system, which focuses precisely on reducing disaster risk and strengthening resilience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48507	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Tiana Davidovec, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does he want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48508	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us with a set of laws from the interior ministry's jurisdiction, the Emergency Sector, whose changes aim to ensure as much protection as possible of people and property. The flood that took place in May 2014 in proportions not recorded in the last 120 years has endangered the lives, health and property of more than 1.6 million people in 38 municipalities in central and western Serbia. The flood threatened the work of economic operators, educational institutions, social protection institutions and other entities in flooded areas, and particularly threatened the smooth operation of the energy system. Taking into account all 38 flood-affected municipalities, including the Lazarec municipality, from which I come, the total flood damage was 1.7 billion euros, or more than 4% of GDP. The most vulnerable sector was mining-energy, 32% of the total damage, followed by the residential, agricultural and trade sectors of around 15% per sector of total damage. A number of major disasters that have hit our country's area over the past period have served as a warning and a warning that it is necessary to take more seriously measures such as planning and realising infrastructure and investment based on risk-knowledge to reduce the risk of adverse consequences of a larger scale. In addition to posters and family manuals, a video was produced for children on the subject “Breaking during emergency situations such as fires, floods and earthquakes. ” In particular, I would point out that on the occasion of marking Sunday's reduction in the risk of natural disasters and the International Day of Risk Reduction of elemental disasters, GO Lazarec organised a demonstration of available forces and resources used in the event of elemental disasters and other types of dangers. The aim of this exercise is to influence the youngest population on preventive measures to meet the rescue units of our municipality in case of elemental disasters. In voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48509	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Goran Pekarski. Does he want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. Does he want a word or someone else? (No) On Article 1 of the amendment, MEP Maja Macužić Puzic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48510	I thank the president. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens, I have submitted this amendment to point out the importance of the adoption of this law, which, unfortunately, is very expensively paid in the Kingdom and whose consequences are still felt in the King today. If someone had made an effort to pass a law like this 10-15 years ago, the King would have looked completely different on those first days of November 2010. On Saturday, November 3, it was exactly eight years after that unfavorable event, or the devastating earthquake that struck the King. That's when two people died, thousands of houses, apartments, businesses were damaged. The damage was estimated at over 2.5 billion dinars. There was no electricity in town, no heating, no drinking water. The health center of the Studenica, which was supposed to accept injured and wounded, and there were over 200 of them, was completely destroyed. The O.R. didn't work, the maternity ward was flooded, the internal hospital was destroyed. The cell phone didn't work. The King’s earthquake was the highlight of the destruction of the city, which was already economically and economically devastated by the yellow company and the yellow family during the previous years, which, even in the moments of the removal of the earthquake, did not give up its mission of grampility and filling its own pockets. In the process of solving the consequences of the earthquake, 465 houses were built, restored to thousands of objects, and all of which could be considered a success, if the same yellow company had not, for their own personal interests, cast a stain on all of this. Afterwards, even on 252 pages, the prosecution charged the city’s management suspects, and members of the then yellow coalition that during the recovery, the result of the King’s earthquakes allowed themselves and others to benefit themselves and to damage the budget for 100 million dinars. You are charged that, among other things, performers paid the full price to perform the work, not reducing the value of the works carried out for the amount of donated material, and who, thanks to the noble people, was indeed very much. And, rudely speaking, there would be no reason not to have such an indictment on its own feet if there hadn't been a new elemental accident in the King, in the form of a fire, which occurred, sees miracles, only one office, and you assume that, the office of the earthquake recovery department has destroyed almost all the earthquake-related documentation, and you assume what happened after that with the indictment. However, if legal and fundamentally been resolved, as this law does, not only preventative action, but also effective response in the case of such disasters, as well as effective removal of consequences, the life of citizens would be restored to normal conditions within a very short period of time, without the possibility of abuse. What is important to say about this law is that so far the focus is shifted from disaster response to the concept of preventive action, i.e. preparedness and reduction of the risk of disasters, so I expect that local communities will now be at a higher level, but also a culture of individual security and resilience. I hope that, thanks to this law in the future, everyone will be much more prepared for emergency situations, to achieve a higher level of protection of people and property and to reduce the risk of the occurrence of adverse consequences of larger scales, but also the abuse of other people's accidents. Of course, in the voting day, I will support this law, and I call on fellow Members to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48511	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48512	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable ministers and Deputy Prime Minister, respected representatives of the Ministry, fellow MPs, in 40 years of my life I did not experience a 20-year level of water, and then I had the opportunity to in 1999 at the local level and in 2014 at the level of the Danube County, and our country also to experience a hundred-year water level. The big consequences are that, this time I'm talking about floods, they caused us, because once people were completely redecorated in the Smederjevska Palanka municipality and beyond, where rivers Kubrsnica, Jasenica, water streams 40, 50 years and 40 years ago we were protected, and then, due to poor maintenance and human factors, above all, and weather problems, we had catastrophic consequences. Many of us are less costing investment in prevention, equipment, preparation of facilities to perform their function, such as. The riverbeds, the crusts of smaller rivers that can now be skipped, and sometimes they look scary when the great waters come across. Now we have enough experience both at the local level and at the state level to, here, turn all of this into a law and in the future prevent us from having the consequences we had and to take advantage of what we wrote, and now and leave it to future generations so that they can know those experiences. Prevention is important, it takes a lot of work, education needs a lot of work. But I have to say that the last few years in each segment have been a significantly improved situation, so when it comes to planning, and especially I would point out, because there's been an announcement here, that now, for many years now, the notification is perfect, sometimes too much information we have about every hour of what meteorological opportunities are and what's happening, which is very important that we can act in the right way. The floods that were happening to us, which I saw with my own eyes, thank God they didn't take human sacrifices. It all happened in the daytime. If it happened at night and looking at the situation we've been in, the question is, how would that be? People are important to us, then objects go, then agricultural land goes. And, in that sense, I support this law that repairs the law we've had so far. I hope that, by respecting the law that we're making, we'll be able to deal with the weather that's coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48513	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48514	Thank you, President. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this member with the position I have proposed is further defined by the bill in terms of affirmation of the overall development of our country. The reduction of the risk of an outbreak of infectious diseases is a policy that is established and led to the prevention and reduction of existing risks through the implementation of health measures. The newly opened laboratory of the Centre for Medical Biochemistry of the Clinical Centre of Serbia provides the highest quality and fastest laboratory diagnostics. More than 1.5m euros were allocated for the purchase of state-of-the-art equipment and appliances, as well as for the complete adaptation of space. This laboratory allows significantly better quality and availability of laboratory services, shorter waiting for venipunciation, i.e. better prevention and more effective treatment of patients. The laboratory has installed state-of-the-art appliances, analysers and equipment, and the system has the automation of a work space of 30 metres, which allows for the highest level of protection of samples and within an hour can process as many as 1,500 tubes and perform about 4,500 analyses. This reference laboratory will certainly meet all the challenges in terms of epidemiological surveillance in the event of emergency situations, especially in the case of outbreaks of infectious diseases. The government of the Republic of Serbia continuously invests in health institutions, thus increasing its chances of a timely reaction to outbreaks of infectious diseases. This way, more consequences for human health are prevented, epidemic prevention costs are reduced and the entire system's reaction to the occurrence of disasters will be faster and more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48515	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milosav Milojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48516	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 1. I propose the bill to add Article 3, which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the reduction of the consequences of the floods." In that sense, this amendment reduces the consequences of the floods as one of the subjects of this law. The emergency response system was faced with huge challenges during the catastrophic floods and disasters affecting our country in 2014. During the four years, a number of natural disasters have occurred that are not remembered in Serbia's modern history. The experience learned from this period is before us a bill that regulates the area in line with the requirements of concrete situations. This law is by all standards and legal frameworks at European and world level. The municipality of Arangelovac is one of the units of local self-government that was worst hit by disasters. A large amount of rainfall has caused millions of damage to buildings and agricultural areas. There are dozens of houses damaged, hundreds of hectares of agricultural cultures, and great damage has been done on infrastructure, especially on bridges. In 2018, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted more measures to tackle the consequences of natural disasters and assistance to local self-government units affected by the floods in May, June and July this year. The municipality of Arangelovac of the Public Investment Office was granted aid of 1m euros without VAT for the construction and reconstruction of bridges for public purposes. In the next period, the damage to six bridges will be recovered. Also, the state will help the citizens of Arandelovac hit by disasters in the recovery of their family facilities. The Commission, responsible for the damage assessment, submitted 56 requests to the Office for Public Investment Management of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which verified them. First-degree solutions are being made and a deadline for complaints is awaiting, after which we expect payment to begin. The minimum amount of funds required will be 120,000 dinars. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has met us countless times in difficult situations so far. I'm sure the citizens of Arangelovac appreciate everything that Alexander Vukic and the entire government team are doing to help every resident of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48517	Thank you. To Article 1. The amendment was submitted by MP Radosav Jovic. Do you want a word? To Article 1. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48518	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. The Emergency Risk Reduction and Management Act actually regulates the area by protecting human lives and material resources that are necessary. We're talking about the role of each individual to the state level when we want to protect our society. In the congregation debate today, we are mostly hearing about the effects of floods in the amendment debate. The silent and major threat in the future time period is certainly a lack of drinking water and the effects of drought. Today, the world is in a situation where the need for drinking water is on the rise, and it is growing at a rate of 8% to 2025. So, 54% in eight years will require more water than we have available today, 71% of the earth's crust is water, but unfortunately only 2.5% is drinking water than 1% of that water that is acceptable and that is easily available. The state of Serbia is not at risk. It is located with 0.3% of the world's reserves in a situation that can be relatively easy to regulate its sources of drinking water, but certainly the fact that it is a key factor and problem that the state is facing the pollution process: 50% of pollution comes from industry, 50% of the population sector. When you see that today a billion people are not available drinking water, it certainly represents one of the important factors to take into account and that the state of Serbia pays more attention to the key factor that will lead to the state of Serbia's future. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48519	Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by Member Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48520	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management is just another proof in a series that all members of the government, that all relevant ministries are pushing for and trying to provide all citizens of Serbia with financial stability and the institutional arrangements of the system. Not only do we perfect our legislation and standards with European Union standards, as a candidate country for EU membership, but we are largely applying legislation today that has led Serbia to be a leader in the region, Europe and the world on a number of grounds and when it comes to foreign direct investment, and when it comes to the number of new jobs, the growth of living standards from 300 to 450 in just four years, etc. Since we are discussing today the law of the Ministry of the Interior, I am somehow forced to commend the work of the Ministry itself in the work that 14 fire trucks were purchased in 2018, in 2019 it was announced that 46 new fire departments will be purchased and between 70 and 80 will be scheduled for 2020. We had the opportunity to hear from fellow opposition MPs that no fire trucks have been obtained over the past 30 years and have not been invested in this part, so I commend the work and pawning of the resolution ministry. Also, the resolution ministry is an example of good practice in non-partisan employment. Today, in the leadership positions in the MUP, people who have worked for years in the police and who have only proven themselves by their expertise, sacrifice, and work, and have taken up the lead jobs. It was not the case between 2000 and 2012. We need to think that our education, our diplomas, our knowledge is worthless and that all we need is a yellow membership card for any job and employment. It's quite different today. Today it is also how current non-partisan employment. Today the only ticket for employment is education, expertise and knowledge, and that is actually SNS policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48521	National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48522	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens who watch the transfer of this session to the Assembly, I would therefore, for the sake of citizens who watch only briefly, like to say that Article 1. The draft law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management actually gives and defines what is the subject and what is regulated by this law, and later the members provide the details for this area. My amendment to Article 1. The law says that this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the prevention of storms. I would like to say, in support of the importance of this bill, that the climate change that has become more and more pronounced, which has already arisen, we have already talked about environmental laws in the previous session, and the environmental environment has been affected by these climate change on a global scale and in our region. In the future, because of all these climate changes, more and more natural disasters are being announced that will affect our country and countries in the environment. I would like to make a finding of scientists dealing with this problem, who say that scientists over the past years have set the tendency for climate change to have an exceptional impact on poverty, because it leads to a direct impact on the destruction of material goods, human sacrifices, as well as on agricultural cultures and so far, leading to food and water shortages, and then inevitably to the rise in food and water prices, especially in countries that are poorer. The very climate change and the elemental disasters affect people's standards themselves. The statistics of the one that should be mentioned here, which speaks of the importance and importance of this law, are the following. It is said – 100 natural disasters were registered between 1900 and 1940. The number of natural disasters is growing rapidly, so over a period of ten years, from 1960 to 1970, the number of disasters increased to 650. So from 1980 to 1990, the number of disasters increased to 2000. From 1990-2000 to 2800 natural disasters. So you see how many times there's been an increase in disasters due to climate change. In our terms, the Ministry of Environmental Protection for the preparation of the session in Paris has estimated that due to climate change between 2000 and 2015, our country suffered a direct damage of five billion euros. The indirect damage here is not given, which is estimated to be even three times higher. The importance of these climate change and disasters is enormous and therefore the importance of this law is the bill on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management. It tries first in a comprehensive way to lead to the normisation of preventive measures and activities to reduce the risk of disasters. Another important thing in this law is effective response in the event of disasters, and the third thing is more effective in removing their consequences, in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work in the affected area as soon as possible. So the whole law has three objectives, and that's why in the voting day not only me, but my colleagues from the SNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48523	Thank you. The first amendment was submitted by Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48524	I thank the esteemed president. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the first member of this law, and in order to add attitude 3 to encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special view of reducing the risk of an outbreak of infectious diseases. By this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry show that the concern of citizens is our primary goal and our basic policy and that we work with responsible policies for the well-being of our citizens. This opportunity would refer to the catastrophic floods that hit our country in 2014 and 2016. As a health care professional, I would point out that the pear hospital was ready and raised to a higher degree of mobility when it came to floods. She was ready to take care of all those residents from the endangered areas, and then the areas of our local municipalities of Trstenik, Varvarin and part of the town of Kruševec were threatened. By the way, we have achieved all of this through a responsible policy both by our current President, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, and by the responsible policy of the then Head of the Kruševing Authority, Mr. Bratislava Gasic and others. I must stress that by 2012, the cruise hospital was in a really bad state, that everything was abandoned, but exactly the responsible policy led by the SNS has led to the fact that we can now talk about the Kruševec hospital so much about the town of Kruševec, that everything is arranged. Those who are now in some alliance for Serbia, rather I would say to the Alliance for the Failure of Serbia, are now talking about bringing about some better life and progress in Serbia, then mocked, while our then Prime Minister, Mr. Vucic, Mr. Gasic, who was the Minister of Defence and the rest of our ministers while in the endangered areas, were, as today, who spent time on social networks insulting the intelligence of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but how we are fighting this law against natural disasters and we are doing preventively, so our citizens are doing preventively in those political disasters and in the elections give a voice to those who are worth it, which is SNS, and that is why we are winning with over 65%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48525	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, a Member of the Parliament, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Serbian MP Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48526	Thank you, President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SNS since its establishment until today, means from 2008 until 2012 when we entered the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2014 when Aleksandar Vucic became prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, we show first in these ten years when we were opposition to responsible ideas and plans that we will then plan on taking over the government, what we need to do in Serbia in order to live here better, safer, more prosperous, easier for the citizens of Serbia, we have shown by implementing these plans that we are a serious, responsible and state-owned party. That's what we showed at work. In 2014, nature forced us to show strength, that unity, uniting the factor that the SNS is for the citizens of Serbia, for all its citizens of all its nationalities, regardless of the differences that once divided us. In 2014, we were struck by terrible floods that almost never hit us in history. Over 1.6 million Serbian citizens have been threatened by these floods. The damage is measured over a billion euros, but with a responsible policy that calls for the unification of all citizens when it is difficult for us, when we need to gather together the strength, led by Alexander Vukic, all of us, I would say then and the officials and citizens of Serbia went out where we needed, responded to their country's call and defended as much as possible then and did everything possible together with their country. There, Serbian citizens assessed the work of the RS government led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS as the highest possible rating. We've shown that we care about citizens above all else. Those who led Serbia to the situation in which it was until 2012 have shown that they were not interested in keeping legal solutions, plans, ideas and programmes to the greatest extent possible, you cannot always influence nature, but to the greatest extent possible try to predict possible events and to learn that the damage from the elementary disasters is less. We also do this with such legal proposals that we have and with a risk reduction plan for the republican level, current provinces, units of local self-government, where we introduce areas of direct risk, a risk register, then an external plan of major accidents, so we are committed to systemically solving this problem. Citizens see it and I am convinced that members of the Alliance for rape, torture, whatever they call themselves, will happen in some subsequent elections exactly what is their biggest elemental disaster, which is that they will no longer enter the RS parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48527	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48528	Thank you, President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues, I'll speak briefly. The two municipalities that hit and had problems with this agenda topic that we are trying to keep these problems from happening again, a few days ago was the Day of the Municipality of Nova Varoš where the respected vice president was awarded a plaque and a thank-you note for an outstanding contribution to security and fire protection in Nova Varosha. They had a big problem and danger. A large area of Zlatar forest where there are 100 ha forests that have had unsolved property-legal relations and thus no one could do anything, a large number of dry trees and any fire would cause a real disaster, you immediately reacted to the most modern fire vehicle worth 250,000 euros and this is of exceptional importance in prevention. The second municipality, the municipality of Luciani, which was hit by floods in 2014 and 2016, caused huge damage to the population and to the economy of Luciana, and then started first with a recovery in 2014 and 2015 worth 97.2 million dinars, and then with one detailed project to build a dikes on the right bank of the Bjelica River worth 303.2 million dinars, a very demanding project that was done in record time, so protection systems, pump stations. Then there was also a recovery on the left bank of the Bijelica River worth 75.2 million dinars and this protected both the economy and the population of Lucana. There we have the dedicated industry "Milan Blagojevic" which suffered significant damage as well as the rest of the economy and the industrial complex that employs about two thousand people. What is happening in the Luciani municipality these days is an attempt by a political accident to overcome this municipality that calls itself the Alliance for Serbia and it is not so dangerous in shape, there has not yet been formed a small cloud because they cannot collect signatures. The problem is the messages they send, the problem is that these people in the previous exercise of power ate up all that substance and the value that they were supposed to create and the money from which all the dikes, all the objects and all the prevention and prevented a lot of damage. These are people who in Luciani see citizens as statistics material. They need statistics in Luciani, that night after the count, some television shows, and then they announce that it is in fact their rating at the level of Serbia as a whole. And when the dedicated "Milan Blagojevic" experiences a flood, it is possible to resuscitate it, but if the dedicated "Milan Blagojevic" includes masters of non-intentional spending of money, then it can be very difficult to resuscitate it, and I have no doubt that the drago trumpet will blow them out of that area into a new municipality, some new local community, to beg for statistics, and on that road slowly turn themselves into a statistical error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48529	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48530	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, this bill follows the trend we had so far to discuss good bill proposals, those laws that follow the real situation in the areas we are discussing and to correct all the shortcomings we have seen so far. Experience gained in the previous period has shown that the current law has certain limitations, that it did not allow faster reactions and that we were more focused on reacting in the disasters themselves than on reducing the risk of these disasters. It is necessary, among other things, to develop awareness of the importance of prevention and to undertake preventive activities of all entities in the chain. Knowledge and understanding of different risks is essential for identifying causes and for planning and disaster response processes. What I would particularly point out is that in this proposal for a unit law, local self-government is obliged to draw up its risk reduction plans and what is particularly important, when it comes to Belgrade, is that all 17 municipalities of Belgrade are seen as units of local self-government. Given that there have been many illegal constructions where both the city and the government are determined to fight it, that it has been built on locations that were risky, the development of these plans will reduce the possibility of some disasters and will increase the security of all citizens. I am sure that the proposed legislative solution will allow the identified problems to be overcome and the measures developed to reduce the risk of disasters. I call upon all MPs to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48531	The first amendment was submitted by Bojan Bagica. Does he want a word? He's not here. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Does he want a word? Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying -- in order for us to get better, we have to get better. To change Serbia, we must change ourselves. So in agriculture, we need to change the way we produce and we need to combine production with processing, agricultural production and renewable energy production. That the energy we produce from the green mass, from biomass, we can feed not only the agriculture and the processing industry, and that what the farmer makes in the field, that the son works in the factory, so that we can get to work and bread for both of us. We have to do everything the previous government hasn't done. We must protect agriculture from accidents. There we cannot fully protect it, but by wisdom and wisdom we can reduce the consequences, by supporting the anti-building networks and by supporting everything that we need to do in the water industry to ensure that agriculture is maximum protected from the walks that elemental disasters can cause. Elemental accidents come and go, but I know one elemental accident. They come and go in a year, in a month, in a few days, but I know one elemental accident that isn't here right now. These are their allies, the Bosomiers. So, I know of an elemental disaster that has now gathered into an alliance of millionaires, an alliance that wants to get its civil pockets back, put their fat wallets on a few more bills and fill their bills in the white world islands. So, this elemental accident didn't last for a few days, this elemental accident didn't last for a month, this elemental accident didn't last for a year, this elemental accident, in the form of a party of the former regime in which this Ljotic man swore, so it lasted 12 years, in Vojvodina for 16 years. I'm afraid we're going to make up for everything that they did wrong in agriculture in the next period, but we're going to have a hard time removing that elemental disaster if it gets its hands on the authorities again. My appeal to voters is that they do not allow again those who are thinking about their wallets and their fat bills to come to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48533	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48534	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management. This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to preventing an epidemic of infectious livestock diseases. Infectious animal diseases occur depending on the characteristics of microorganisms and may occur in the form of enzootic diseases, covering smaller spaces and areas or in the form of epizootics, affecting wider geographical space. They can cause significant direct, indirect health damage, but also significant economic damage. Some of them, in addition to the considerable damage caused by livestock, pose a danger to human health. Some of the key measures to combat disease are early identification, banning movement, preventing illegal animal transport and destroying infected cattle. In the area of the town of Leskovci, the work of the animal health assurance programme shall be carried out by veterinary stations responsible for the tasks assigned to them by the Ministry of Agriculture in a given area and their work shall be controlled by the Republic of Veterinary Inspection. In the event of suspected or contagion, the Republic veterinary inspection shall be responsible for the legal application of the rules for a specific infectious disease, which endangers a number of animals in one or more courtyards, or on a specific territory which may be transferred to other healthy, acceptable animals to a specific infectious disease. In 2014, in the municipality of Medvedja in Jablanička County, a disease of “blue language”, a cataract fever occurred, and the number of animals that died at that time was more than a hundred. It occurs in cattle by their tongues being bitten by mosquitoes or ticks of flood, after which animals cannot eat and die. It is an area situated in the risk zone of spreading disease from Bulgaria and Macedonia, where it has started carrying out serological, viral and entomological studies and general control of bluetongue. The disease of "square skin", nodullary dermatitis, appeared on 16 June 2016 in the municipality of Medvedja, and the latest case of this disease was recorded in the municipality of Crna Trava on 22 July 2016. Of the five municipalities in one city in Jablani County, three municipalities were infected, Medvedja, Bojnik, Crna Trava, as well as the town of Leskovac, and two municipalities, Lebane and Vlasotince, were at risk in the area. The total number of cattle in the Jablanic district was then 24,000 throats, which in order to prevent the veterinary service from being vaccinated with 100% success within 15 days, thereby preventing further spread of the disease and outside the Jablanic district. The disease of “square skin” is a viral disease that cannot be treated with medicines, but according to the assessment of the Ministry of Agriculture is the only form of protection against insects that are transporters of this very dangerous infectious disease. Finally, veterinary services that have helped to stop further spread of the disease, with all praise for the veterinary inspection, also the Jablanic district in preventing infectious disease, as well as for expertise, pawning and dedication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48535	The National MP Branimir Rancic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48536	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Minister Mr Stefanovic, Honored Guests of the Ministry, Honored Mr People's MPs, Article 1. The draft law on reducing the risk of disaster and emergency management regulates the subject of this law, and, among other things, the rights, obligations of citizens, associations, legal entities, bodies of local self-government units, autonomous provinces of the Republic of Serbia and the functioning of civil protection. In this regard, under the auspices of the Standing Conference of Cities and Municipalities, on 27 October 2018, the first meeting of representatives of 20 municipalities and cities from the South Morava Basin took place in the City House in Nis, with the heads of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, the Office for Public Investment Management and the UNDP Office in Belgrade. The aim of the meeting is, as pointed out, to get acquainted with the initiative for better co-operation of local self-government from this area in situations of natural disasters and emergency situations on preventive action, in order to reduce such situations. In practice, it has proved necessary to re-establish a civil protection system that has worked perfectly in the former SFRY, and therefore many Western countries have established their systems of defence against emergency situations. It is necessary to create a system in which municipalities and cities will join and exploit all their capacities and work coordinated primarily on prevention, whether it is the cleaning and arrangements of water streams, forest roads to put out fires and similar activities, because floods, fires, earthquakes and all other scriptures do not know the administrative boundaries, and therefore they need to act jointly in their prevention. So far several associations of territorially defined streams of rivers have been formed under the auspices of the Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities of the West Morava, Drina, Danube, Kolubara, and similar initiatives have been launched in the Greater Morava and Timoka basin. Mayor Nisa Darko Bulatovic stressed that the city of Nis supports this initiative and is ready to make as the largest city in this area and the city through which two of the largest rivers in this part of Serbia, Nisa and South Morava flow, all its capacities are available to neighbouring municipalities, as no municipality can defend itself from natural disasters. This initiative should be declared in the coming months by congregations of all municipalities and cities from the South Morava Basin area in the town of Leskovac. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48537	National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48538	Thank you. The law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations has made huge progress by the very name of the law and by putting ahead of reducing the risk of disasters, and only then is the management of emergency situations. That's something, I don't know if it's a good comparison, but it explains this previous matter before the emergency, which is, say, as in health care. If you act preventively, there will be no disease, an epidemic, etc. That's right here. So one good diagnosis of everything that might happen in preparation and something that needs to be done so that disaster doesn't happen, and I think that's how we reduce disaster itself. We can't rule them out, since we can't predict either the scale or quantity of the disaster itself, but we can probably ease it. This is why it is said in Article 3, that the practical content of this law is national and local. So the law itself said this is a national and local priority. As for the entities of the disaster risk reduction and emergency management system, we are all in the state of entities involved in all of this. However, I would start with the government, the Ministry of Business to the citizens, and I would only stay here for a short while as far as citizens are concerned. Citizens should be informed, in any case, they should participate in all this. What is a good shift is that it is a practical obligation that basic and secondary education provides for education and training of those students who will tomorrow be responsible for what is happening to us and to be prepared and trained for such emergency situations, or disasters. In my opinion, it's a terrible move. This should be understood, to be understood, that all of us individually as citizens understand and participate in all of this. As citizens, we are obliged to participate in both protection and rescue, civil protection and every other protection. I'd say something here that the former government did, I think it's 2010, and it's the Water Act. The waters were completely at the level of the Republic. This law in 2010 kept some of the flows at the level of the Republic, so large flows, and all small flows were transferred to the local level. Now, not for the misery that's come to the local level, but there's no means for these currents to be maintained anywhere. For these reasons, I think a huge mistake has been made and we are suffering today because of this mistake. What I would recommend and what is an inheritance from earlier authorities is to give priority to the unbalanced persons in the Emergency Sector. I think we should give priority to civilian faces because they deserve it, especially fire-saving units, because simply without them we wouldn't be able to function, or we almost don't work, and that some mistakes from the earlier period, although it's fixed now, to look to correct, in the sense that firefighters-saviors don't change three or four transports to come somewhere to be firefighters, because they just don't know the situation, they need a lot of time to come, they cost a lot, they just can't act like someone who's on that ground. There is an example that someone travels from Krupanj to Loznica, from Loznica to Capca, from Šapac to Koceljeva, there he does the job, and on the same day he returns. I don't mind this guy working, but I don't think it's good for that fire rescue unit or the state. I think moving people like that to places where they're from, and where they create a vacant place to fill people who are from that territory, I think it's the right thing to do. For these reasons, I suggest we do it in the future, because we have one common interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48539	Thank you. Dear MPs, I now set a regular break of an hour. Resumption is at 15.00 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48540	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48541	I thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the MUP, I have submitted an amendment with an accent on which I always speak in undeveloped areas, for mountain-mounted areas, for municipalities like my municipality, Svrljig, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka, and a number of such municipalities. In my amendment, I put an accent on the skating problems, but now I would say something more specifically about the problem that happened yesterday and today in my neighborhood, in the municipality from which I came, where there was a big fire. As for all of us in Srlig and that part of our region, we had a lot of these fires that were very problematic, big in 2007. Now there was such a big fire that started yesterday at 10.00 a.m., where the fire departments were on the ground, it started in the White Palanca, so now the Svrljska Mountains and the part of the Green Summit, where the fire spreads towards the Old Mountain and spreads with a great connection. Due to dry growth, because of the inaccessible terrain of fire-saving units are on the ground, they're constantly mobile, they're active. Now I wanted to inform you here in the Assembly, the representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the Emergency Sector, I suppose that the Srlig municipality will also introduce an emergency situation, because the situation is alarming, because there are a large number of people who are at risk, and animals, because that part of our municipality and southeast of Serbia is very good for cattle pasture, so now it's such a situation that four or five teams on the ground, our rescuers, and we've engaged a voluntary fire company from my area, and we want all of us to try to locate this fire that's spreading at high speed. All of these are things that are very important to us living in that area, and I think it would be good, if that is possible, if the competent MIP, within its work cycle and the Emergency Sector to provide one helicopter that could be involved in fire-extinguishing because our firefighters don't have the opportunity, because these are really big hairs and inaccessible terrains, dry flares, growing started to burn, noise forests. By the way, our neighborhood is recognizable in that forest, by quality, in a healthy environment. But it's really important for all of us to manage to locate that fire, and it would be really good, and I'm calling you from the ministry of the sector to hire some helicopter to help our people put out that fire without spreading it and not doing too much damage. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48542	Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48543	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the prevention of disaster risk and emergency management. The law is particularly important in terms of public security, but also that it is significant and represents a step forward precisely in terms of preventive activities and taking all those preventive measures that will lead to the mitigation of catastrophic consequences, i.e. avoiding catastrophic consequences or reducing them to the least possible level. Apart from being one of the laws that represents a step forward and improving the entire MUP system, I will point out the involvement of the MUP in a global crisis that has affected our country as a transit country, and it is a migrant crisis, it is about protecting particularly vulnerable, or sensitive social groups. I must point out that the Republic of Serbia has shown a high degree of respect for human rights during the migrant crisis and during the great migration of the people, especially from Syria, which was covered by war but also from other countries, but of course the highest possible degree of protection of the security and security of its citizens. I must also point out that in July 2016, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to form a joint force of the MUP, i.e. police and the Serbian Army, in order to ensure the state border, towards Bulgaria and Macedonia, and in order to combat and regulate migration. The interior ministry was awarded the first prize along with Hungarian police officers precisely on the plan to prevent and smuggle people. Also, I have to point out that the MUP brought the Memorandum along with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office formed a permanent task force to prevent human trafficking because we know that a major migrant crisis that has hit all countries, and of course our country, although migrants have been passing through our country as transit agents, that many have used migrants to get rich, and to actually deal with human trafficking. I must point out that this permanent task force to combat human trafficking in 2017 arrested 13 people who tried to smuggle 107 refugees from Macedonia, and also three days ago thanks to police activities in the area of Kikinda, Subotica, Kanjiže was discovered by an eight-member criminal group involved in smuggling migrants from India and Afghanistan. Of course, the purpose and focus of the MUP is the security and security of our citizens, but during the migrant crisis, the MUP and how it has shown that once coordinated with one effective, one multidisciplinary activity and how it has worked to protect human rights and migrants, and above all, those most vulnerable and there are children. I must point out that in Subotica in the Children's House "The cradle", there is a wing equipped with migrant children without parental escorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48544	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48545	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, Madam Minister of Justice, I am pleased to see you and Dr Stefanovic, very often in this high house among us. In the first place, it speaks of your relationship to work, along with your associates, as well as your dedication. I must stress that even today in the afternoon, and now in the afternoon, there are twice as many of your associates as the entire opposition here through us. I must stress that Mr Stefanovic, in his own time chaired this high House, with parliament, and according to a general assessment of how the positions, as well as the opposition, are best in the last 20 years. Nothing worse does the interior minister's job, which speaks of the results achieved during his leadership. I'm also taking the opportunity to thank the MUP for keeping 34,000 hours from our students' safety in one year, which is of great educational value, and will contribute to our country's overall security. This law and the proposed amendment, if accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will contribute to national security, and thus to the overall accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is selflessly advocated and implemented, the largest number of honourable MPs and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our esteemed President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The former regime did not take care of the national security of the Republic of Serbia, particularly of defence against floods. In addition, the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia shows this, and today the prominent MP Zoran Zivkovic, who is currently not here among us, is called a farmer in an attempt, who even denied the existence of catastrophic floods in 2014, when he said 15 days after 30.05.2014, "The floods are artificially invented manipulation. I have to admit that I fell for that propaganda too." It's a finished quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can you believe that this person chaired the government of the Republic of Serbia in one of the terms of office. It was not only Zoran Zivkovic, who worked against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also made a daily alliance for the second robbery of Serbia, such as Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of Vuk Djilas, called Điki Mafia, Sasa Jankovic, called Sale prangia, Janko Veseinovic, called Janko Stanocrat, Dusan Petrovic, called Doule as a murderer and many others in this alliance of leszidovic, frauds, thief, luftigos and wind and jibalebaros, who daily beat Serbia, to obtain some political point. They forgot only one thing, that they were citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they had sent them into a political past that they would certainly not return from. In the end, we've been talking about the trustee for two days now, about the Personal Data Protection Act. I warn Serbian citizens, Rodoljub Sabic, has been a political person for two years and deals with clean politics, as Sasa Jankovic has done before, has been involved in politics. You'll see in a few months, they'll be running into an alliance of crooks, con men, lesbians, lufti butts, and windmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48546	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48547	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Ministers of Associates, it is absolutely clear that the old law on reduction, now we can say, old man, reducing the risk of disasters and managing the emergency situation that was brought on in 2009, changed in 2011, complemented in 2012, simply did not endure the accidents and disasters that occurred in Serbia in the meantime. It is obvious that this bill, which lies ahead of us, is a truly high-quality proposal to overcome all the shortcomings that have been seen unfortunately on practical examples and which may have affected the damage from the disasters that have hit Serbia in this period, is even greater than it had to be. It is a good thing that this law, unlike the previous law and the situation we had in the Republic of Serbia, defines in a very clear and precise way what are the obligations, what are whose rights. What's important is that there are clearly defined priorities, which is that the lives of citizens are put first, that prevention is re-involved and returned to the system, and that a system is set up once practically destroyed and destroyed is a very serious, difficult and painful job. In fact, parallel with material resources that need to help and facilitate the prevention of disasters or when it comes to them, that the adverse consequences are as little as possible, must also be re-worked to train citizens, raise awareness and simply accept one fact that without well-organised citizens at local self-government level who will be clearly coordinated, aware and participate in all procedures and procedures envisaged for certain natural disasters, there are no good results either on prevention or on reduction of harm, nor on the elimination of consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48548	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic, a colleague of Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48549	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Honorable Minister Kuburovic with his associates, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is estimated to be around 90% of all disasters that occur in the world are disasters caused by a natural factor. It was the same situation with the May floods when Serbia was affected by historical floods in the third week of May 2014. These floods hit an entire region, along with the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia and Republika Srpska were affected. The entire security system was just that month in May 2014 ahead of a major test. Buic floods hit 38 municipalities of central and western Serbia. The essence of my amendment to Article 1 is to add point 3 to the resolution of the resulting floods. This amendment that defines itself the bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. The numbers warn us. The numbers say that we need to stop and imagine, make a plan for what to do next, how to be more efficient, how to deal with these problems as best we can. The figures are such as to show that more than 11,500 water streams have been registered in Serbia, while flash floods represent the most common phenomenon of so-called. An arsenal of natural risks. Erosion is the main factor in the emergence of flash floods. Erosion is present on 75% of Serbia's territory with an average annual production of around 30 million cubic metres of erosion material, of which as many as eight million cubic metres of it reaches our rivers, reaches into our river and streambed troughs, and this is the cause of enormous amounts of mud and stone in flooded cities and cities. The figures are such as to say that for a whole period of one decade, the entire decades from 1950 to 2014 were the devastating negative consequences of the floods. These lush floods in our country have taken as many as 80 human lives. They have done material damage in enormous proportions, the material damage is estimated at several billion euros. The frequency of phenomenal floods, intensity and spread makes them a constant threat, not only when we talk about ecology, but also when we talk about an entire economic and social situation in the Republic of Serbia. During the floods in 2014, but also the floods that hit us in 2016 and the floods that hit us this year, so in 2018, members of the security sector, members of the Emergency Sector were indeed at the height of the task and were all along their people and provided an adequate response to one of these monsters that we see almost every year endangering our country. I do have a rare opportunity to publicly congratulate all members of the security sector, all those rescuers, firefighters, police officers, Serbian soldiers, who stood by their people day and night. I would really like from this place, from the House of the People's Assembly, to express them really great awe, because they work day and night, because they do indeed one thing, they do one very difficult and responsible job, so that we, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, feel safer and safer. It is the members of the interior ministry that allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia to live without fear in this country. They are the ones who provide for the progress of the entire society, they protect the law and the citizens, regardless of gender, religion or other belongings, they protect our children day and night, they provide us with a safer and better future. The role of police is really important, especially in the 21st century, in a century that faces numerous challenges both internally and internationally. I welcome President Aleksandar Vukic's decision, but also Minister Stefanovic, to provide apartments at more favourable prices for members of the security service. The good news is, here in October we could see in all the media that the first apartments will start to build in Vranje, 486 apartments, then in Nis, where the highest apartments for security forces will be built, as many as 2,400 apartments, but also in Belgrade where the location in the town municipality of Zemun is determined and that 1,000 apartments will be built for the members of the MUP. After 2014, a fundamental reform of all sectors of the MUP was implemented and I would say that the public opinion changed the discourse. Once again it became popular to be a cop, a fireman, a member of the gendarmes. That's what one man is responsible for. It is the first man of the MUP, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Stefanovic, who really works daily to speed up these reforms, to continue these reforms, and to finally get all the necessary equipment, uniforms, shoes, really never invested again than is now investing in the modernisation of Serbian police. How did we find the situation before that year 2014? Well, our officers were really barefoot and barefoot, they didn't have the basic means to work, and they're really dealing with one hard and specific profession. Every day we can see from the media that indeed the Ministry is working full steam, projects such as Safe City, safe cities, video surveillance in all primary schools, software procurement, digitisation, but also to take steps towards providing services to citizens. Now the citizens are finally in the focus of the MUP and a really large number of online services testify about it. You can from your living room today, from your home, from your office to schedule one of the online services via your computer or mobile phone, which was really not possible in the previous period. You can schedule the extraction of personal documents. Indeed, there is a lot of work to be done to create new police stations in many cities and municipalities that allow citizens in their neighborhood, in their neighbourhood, to feel safer in their streets. Also, as I have already said, something changes when it comes to public discourse, it is now popular to be a Serbian police officer and a Serbian firefighter. There's a big rush on the M.O.P. contests about that. During this year alone, 275 new firefighters will be employed. I'm glad to be able to say as a citizen that it is necessary to continue modernising the Emergency Sector, to rejuvenate the composition, because it is the firefighters who put out hundreds and hundreds of fires every month in our cities, in our municipalities. It's important that we also work on prevention. When it comes to emergency management, it's important that we continue our education. My colleague, Professor, told you about these educations. Marko Atlagic. More than 2,000 members of the MUP, some pensioners, former police officers, work daily to educate our youngest children in primary schools. It is important that in time we start with education and training to teach children who grow up in our country to respond adequately in emergency situations, but also how to protect themselves and be better and to act adequately in the streets, settlements and their schoolyard. I would now like to say what it is that offers this other alliance, which is across from us. I am sorry that only two representatives of the opposition today are from the alliance to destroy Serbia across from us. They are composed of various parties and different movements. We know who their boss is, but every day they see who their experts are. Yesterday we had every means of public informing the opportunity to see who their security experts are, who their candidate for future functions is if they win power in the security sector. We had the opportunity to see truly a miracle unseen, a reality security expert, a gentleman who hangs out with criminals every day, who proposes epochal solutions – that the price of fuel in Serbia be five euros, that citizens come to work on foot or bicycles instead of cars and motor vehicles. It is actually their basic platform for Serbia's development. I am ordering them from this place, from the place of the messenger of the people, to go first from themselves. First, those hiding behind expensive cars now advise citizens to go to work, let them start to come to work with bicycles, first, let them start to reduce their stomachs and walk to work, and then let them advise citizens of Belgrade and other cities. We have indeed inherited a difficult situation in the Serbian police. I believe we've had a lot of Leprechauns on every corner, in every sector of the M.O.P. We have shown and proved that there is really no untouchable and that in every action we show zero tolerance to crime and corruption in our country. For all this, I really think from this place it is really important that we adopt these reform laws from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. I would like from this place to call on all my fellow MPs to support these reform laws in the voting day, to make the citizens of this country safer, safer, so that all those standards that we missed in the previous period are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48550	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48551	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Ministers Kuburovic, the city administration in Bora has undertaken a number of activities to strengthen capacity, protection and rescue in line with its legal obligations and powers. During 2018, a process was launched to produce planning documents, assessment of threats and plans to protect and save the city. Both of these planning documents have been drawn up. The assessment of the threat and the plan of protection and rescue will be sent to the Ministry of the Interior, or to the Protection and Rescue Sector, in order to gain agreement. The last estimate of the threat in Bora was made in the 1980s. The process of drawing up a technical specification for public procurement, which would put the public alert system in the right position, is also under way. For the last time, all public alert sirens were in the right state in 1999. In co-operation with the National Training Centre of the Republic of Serbia, training is also scheduled for members of the Emergency Staff and civil protection commissioners. The training will take place on 13 and 14 November. The last training was done more than 15 years ago, and we expect the headquarters and network of trustees to function on a much higher level, because people representing the skeleton of protection and rescue will receive adequate training and knowledge. Our fire rescue unit in Bora two months ago received new equipment in the form of a dedicated vehicle and a car tanker. Mr. Stefanovic delivered the keys himself. This makes it a lot easier to work for our lifeguards. The conclusion is, therefore, that significant funds are being invested in this area after decades, which confirms that the government is maximumly committed to solving accumulated problems in different areas and that it strives for all of us to live in the safest and safer environment. For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48552	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48553	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Kuburovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters, to add item 3 and to reduce the risk of storms. If we take into account and therefore know that the previous law was passed seven years ago and as such had a large number of shortcomings, I believe that by passing a new law we will rule out the possibility that some legal gaps that so far existed simply disappear. What I would agree with fellow Members of Parliament, from the territory of the city of Belgrade, i.e. The local self-government that belongs to the local self-government unit of the city of Belgrade is that the new law will also apply to local self-government of city municipalities. To a large extent, it will certainly improve in a good way and provide additional resources as a prevention for the next period of combating disasters that we simply cannot influence. What I would particularly like to point out is to remind you that in the previous years, we had very large elementary disasters, in 2014, in the town municipality of Obrenovac, where I was personally present, and on June 29, 2018, the floods that took place on my territory, i.e. in the Barajo municipality, from which I come. I would like to point out that, over the years behind us, there has been little investment in increasing the awareness of citizens, in prevention, let alone in removing possible consequences which, fortunately, we believe may be without human casualties. On the occasion of the event, on June 29, 2018, there were elementary disasters on the territory of the Barajevo municipality, where over 100 liters of rain fell per square metre. If citizens and local self-government had had more opportunities and, of course, consciousness, there would have been no flood of these proportions, if only the extinct trees that caused damage and the creation of some current dams that caused the flood in the central part of the municipality. I hope that the proposed law will greatly reduce the elemental disasters and that in the coming period we will certainly try to be without human casualties. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48554	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48555	Thank you, dear President-in-Office. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the basic objective and reason for the adoption of this law is the need for a system of disaster risk reduction and emergency management as part of a single national security system of the Republic of Serbia to be regulated in a single way, creating legal conditions for the establishment of a single integrated system, while at the same time bringing the organisation and functioning system in line with the real needs of protecting and saving the population and material goods from elemental and other disasters. The emergency response system, which is the main subject of the regulation, was faced with huge challenges during the devastating May floods in 2014. Floods threatened the lives, health and property of more than 1.6 million people in 119 municipalities of central and western Serbia, while the total flood damage amounted to 1.7 billion euros, making up more than 4% of gross social product. The bill puts first principles, planning documents and measures and activities to contribute to a more successful prevention of disasters, strengthening the resilience of individuals and communities to the consequences of natural and other disasters and raising the level of preparedness to react in the event of an occurrence of a natural and other accident. The planning and realisation of investment activities at all levels, based on knowledge of risk and ensuring as much protection as possible of people and property as possible from the possible occurrence of new disasters, represents a systemic response of society to this kind of danger and enables a reduction of the risk of the occurrence of adverse consequences of a larger scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48556	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48557	Thank you, Your Honor. The law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations is the upgrade of the existing system and the Emergency Act. The key feature of this law is to put prevention in the first place. It is, in fact, a joint preparation and engagement of local self-government, legal entities and citizens themselves. As far as the city of Belgrade, which as a local self-government is concerned by 17 municipalities, is that the obligation of local self-government is extended to the city's municipalities of Belgrade. Belgrade has so far been treated as a local self-government that makes up 17 municipalities and because of the slowness in response, doubt and various other shortcomings in the system is now handed over to units that are municipal in the city of Belgrade, because they are not local self-government, but have transferred competences and have departments of local self-government and are significant in the rescue aspects. I want to commend and highlight the work of the MUP in the past 2017. The members of the MUP RS in the previous year produced record results in several districts. I'd like to suggest a reduction in the crime rate. The results that are the best in the last 10 years. Looking at this period, the least criminal acts of murder have been committed, while the number of car accidents has been reduced by 17% on average for the last 10 years. In 2017, more than 31,000 fires were extinguished. They issued more than 2.4 million passports, ID cards, driver's licenses and traffic permits, and control of nearly 69 million passengers was carried out on border transports. The results of the work of the MUP are also seen in 2018, as their task is to ensure that Serbia and its citizens are safe and secure. Finally, I would also like to commend the work of the Ministry of Justice, whose draft laws, amendments and additions to the law, will be supported in the voting day, and I would particularly like to highlight new laws, such as the Law on Free Washed Aid and the Law on Lobbying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48558	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48559	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1 in order to further point out the importance of the adoption of this law. The adoption of a law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management is proposed to improve the overall framework for the establishment of an effective integrated disaster risk reduction and emergency management system in order to reduce existing risks, prevent future risks and respond more effectively to disasters. We agreed that everyone in the discussions in principle, which we had in the previous days, that prevention is the most important and that we should now work to improve the concept of preparedness and reduce the risk of disasters. The realisation of investment activities at all levels, based on knowledge of risk, is also planned to provide a higher level of protection for people and property than the possible occurrence of new disasters, is in fact a systemic response of society to this kind of danger and enables a reduction of the risk of the occurrence of adverse consequences of a larger scale. From 2014 to today, more than 50km of second-row waterways were located in the territory of the town of Leskovac, where the city invested more than 30 million dinars. As a result, the problems with spills and floods are reduced to a minimum. If we have in mind that the elemental accident of the first appearance on the territory of the units of local self-government and that the timely response can prevent and mitigate the consequences, it is logical that the proposal for this law, as so far, puts the units of local self-government first and defines their rights and obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48560	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48561	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, protection and rescue are based on solidarity co-operation, timely and coordinated operation of the subject's protection and rescue system. Everyone has the right to protect against accidents and disasters caused by elemental disasters and other accidents, and protecting and saving human lives takes precedence over all other protective and rescue activities. The authorities of the state administration must ensure that the population in the area, which may be affected by a natural and other accident, is informed of the danger and that, when ensuring protection against natural disasters and other accidents, they shall carry out preventive protection measures in accordance with their respective competences. In a number of cases, a concrete example, the Serbian Army has really helped the town of Novi Pazar with snow cleaners, which were necessary for clearing the roads in our area because of the great rainfall. In these parts of our country, snow, due to the strong wind, reaches a truly huge height and remains in one day a large number of people trapped in snow and garbage. For the above reasons, as well as because it often happens that because of snow applications and low temperatures, the most difficult situation is on Cave and Novi Pazar, I think it is necessary to adopt the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48562	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mitrovica, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48563	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. The disaster risk reduction and emergency management system is of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia and is part of the national security system. The Emergency Management Authority was governed by the Emergency Law, which was adopted in December 2009. The changes and additions followed in 2011 and 2012. The emergency response system, which is the main subject of the regulation, was faced with a huge challenge during the devastating May floods in 2014. Floods threatened the lives, health and property of more than a million and 600,000 people in 119 municipalities of central and western Serbia, while the total flood damage amounted to 1.7 billion euros, which accounts for more than 4% of GDP. The main objectives pursued by the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management are primarily in the overall normisation of preventive measures and activities to reduce the risk of disasters. Efficient response in the event of disasters, as well as more effective removal of their consequences in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living and working conditions in the affected area as soon as possible. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48564	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go, colleague Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48565	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the environment threatens many and various dangers that a man faces within the limits of his mental and technical capabilities. Of all phenomena, floods cause the greatest material and ecological consequences that can be declared by emergency conditions. Generally, the main causes of the flood are the occasional occurrences of heavy-intensity rains, as well as the rains of moderate intensity, which last unusually long. Floods cause various harmful consequences, or damages, and the greatest damages are certainly human lives lost. Other damages may be divided into material and immaterial, direct and indirect. Just like that, we met during the April-September 2014 period, when heavy rainfall caused a flood in space that covers about 20,000 square miles, which has never happened until then. The consequences were catastrophic and manifested in the threat of life, health, property of more than 1.6 million people in 119 municipalities of western and central Serbia, and total damage was 1.7 billion euros. Taking into account the experience of this period, as well as the fact that floods potentially endangered 18% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, most of all in the coast of Danube, Tisa, Sava, then Morava, Drina and Kolubara, the need for further development of preventive activities in this area is imposed. A deterioration in the state of flood protection in Serbia is due to human activities such as deforestation, non-planned urbanisation, damage to water facilities. Further deterioration can contribute to irregular management of water facilities, as well as potential climate change. In the defense of floods, preventive protections, which must cover the spatial continent of water streams, coasts and plums, are of paramount importance. The main objective of preventive measures is to reduce the likelihood of large water spills and reduce potential flood damage. In this respect, it is necessary to plan, in addition to all the other, on all the waterways of the second row, the cleaning of the troughs and the growth, and the preventive measures include timely alarming, the evacuation of the population and the removal of movable property. All these preventive measures require major financial allocations, but anything that is not invested in prevention today, if there is a flood later on, will be paid seven times more. Realising the importance of preventive measures, Serbia has invested about half a billion euros in the protection system since 2014 and finished 410 construction sites in the 101 municipality of Serbia. The proposed law, among other things, also provides for measures to contribute to a more successful prevention of disasters and to raise the level of preparedness to react in the event of an elemental and other accident, and therefore, in the day of the vote, it should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48566	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48567	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, starting with the duty of each responsible society to work to improve its responsibilities towards the threat of disasters, as well as the fact that threats of this species in recent decades are increasingly on the global level, it is necessary to work to improve the existing system of protection and rescue in the Republic of Serbia. My amendment to Article 1 of this law goes towards reducing the risk of disaster. The floods that took place in the Republic of Serbia in May 2014, in proportions not recorded in the last 120 years, have endangered the lives, health and property of more than one-six million people in 38 municipalities in central and western Serbia. The flood has endangered and largely destroyed property of greater value, making it impossible for businesses, schools and other educational institutions, health institutions, social protection institutions, the energy system of the Republic of Serbia. The adverse effects of the floods were particularly visible in the area of agricultural production, so that the planted agricultural products in a larger volume were destroyed, and the stock fund was largely endangered, in a certain extent and destroyed. Of course, the great loss in floods is also the loss of human lives that no measures can return to, and the government also declared three days of mourning in Serbia on 20 May 2014. In September 2014, it means that only four months after the May floods, the eastern part of Serbia, three municipalities of the Borsko County were affected by elemental disasters. The massive floods triggered by many slides resulted in an emergency situation in that part of Serbia. This event must serve as a warning and a reminder that it is necessary to take more serious steps in the Republic of Serbia to take measures such as planning and realising investments based on knowledge of the risks that will ensure that a greater level of protection of people and property is possible than possible occurrences of new floods, greater intensity, or reduce the risk of the occurrence of adverse consequences of a larger scale. Since we are in a responsible society and policy led by our president, we are now much more concerned about such disasters as are happening in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48568	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48569	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, the area of emergency management, was governed by the Emergency Law, which was adopted in December 2009, followed by amendments and, as with most of the laws passed by previous authorities during its term of office, it was not possible to bring the amendments and additions in line and adequately defined, but it is necessary to do a new law that would settle the issue in this area, which we are currently doing. Serbia faced a kind of disaster not caused by nature, but the rule of the previous government, which has indeed brought the entire people to their knees and the state to the brink of ambition. The damage they've done to us hasn't been remedied yet, and it's going to take years and years to correct it. Serious consequences have been inflicted on citizens and their material goods, as otherwise they could not grab for themselves and increase the state of accounts and squares in exclusive locations. Wars, sanctions, and no natural disaster could destroy our country as much as the gentlemen of the previous government did. The robbery privatisations they conducted, the citizens of Serbia and Serbia were destroyed on a thorough and deliberate basis. The highest unemployment and poverty rate in Europe remained behind. They have ruined respected companies and allowed crime and corruption to wave and cover all spheres of society. The gentlemen have been rich in obtaining material benefits for themselves through staged tenders, percentages and commissions, breakdown of the state budget, collapse of the reputation of institutions, even by kidnapping social aid and buying votes in elections. Protection from such events meant taking certain measures, i.e. the existence of a clear awareness of our citizens of the consequences, proportions and seriousness of everything that happened during the rule of the previous government. One thing was clear, it was meant to save what could be saved. Much was destroyed, but the future for Serbian citizens had to be more certain and the elections were the ones where the previous government showed how bad they were doing and that they would never again be able to create such a disaster in Serbia. The amendment I have proposed, which would create the necessary normative conditions for more effective implementation of protection against natural and other disasters, will contribute to increasing the level of security of citizens. In the modern world, we witness an increasing number of natural disasters, floods, droughts, earthquakes, storm winds that cause increasing damage. We know that the consequences of disasters last long, the endangered areas have a great need for financial and material assistance months after that, which means: monitoring and monitoring of infectious diseases, providing medical material, establishing a normal primary health care service, water supplying housing and employment and helping the community with mental and social recovery after the crisis has been eroded. Natural disasters are not always the cause of epidemic outbreaks, but they are certainly a risk of increasing the number of infectious diseases that, if the system of reaction and protection is not adequately organised, at some point can get out of control and become an epidemic. The adoption of this law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management would improve the overall framework for the establishment of an efficient integrated disaster risk reduction system and emergency management to reduce existing risks, address future risks and respond more effectively to disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48570	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Comrade Djurishich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48571	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, and it reads - Article 1. The bill adds a new position 3, which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the recovery of heavy rains." Article 1 The draft law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations provides for the subject matter of this law and of the areas to which this law applies. The Emergency Management Authority has so far been governed by the Emergency Act, which was adopted in 2009, and has been amended and completed in 2011 and 2012. I would refer to local self-government units this time, given that the elemental disaster first occurs on the territory of the local self-government unit and that timely response can prevent or mitigate the effects of the same. For these reasons, this law, as well as the current Emergency Act, puts local self-government first. The local self-government of the Municipality of Great Plan, in accordance with the Law on Waters, Decisions establishing the limits of the water areas, Decisions establishing and listing the waters of the second order, in the process of preparing the flood defence plan, and the following obligations arising from the Emergency Act, constitute annual measures and works to reduce the risk of floods on second-row waterways. The area of the Municipality of Velika Plana is located in the river Velika Morava and therefore belongs to the water area of Morava. Given the dominant role of the tributary, the Jasenica River, the Rač River, with significant hydrological impact on the area, the reionisation of the area can generally be carried out by dividing the banks of the Velika Morava River, the Jasenica River, the Rač River, the Jezava River and the Bulinac stream. As a potential danger to the floods of the territory and settlements in the Municipality of Velika Plana, streams in the river Jasenica, in the valley of Velika Morava, in the river Rača, in the river Jezava and the stream of the Točak stream are isolated from the waters of the second row. The dominant activity on the coast of these waters is agriculture and warfare. Agriculture, as the most significant branch of the economy, is represented at 35,000 hectares, most of which is a part of arable areas in the direct coast of flows. The local self-government of the Municipality of Velika Plan recognized the importance of preventive action in the protection and maintenance of these waterways, which, among other things, invested 10 million dinars from its resources in the waterway regulation of the Krnjeva stream in 2017. This year, these days, work begins with 153,530,000 dinars provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the Public Investment Management Office, as a capital investment to prevent flood risks on this stream. On behalf of the citizens of the Great Plan Municipality, I thank you for this. It's this government's policy, SNS policy, headed by President Alexander Vukic. In voting day, I call on the MPs to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48572	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48573	Ladies and gentlemen, in Serbia today, the needs of citizens are concerned, Serbia is today concerned, and it is precisely in the area of emergency response that we today can conclude that nine regional specialist rescue and water work teams have been formed with the corresponding complete specialist equipment. These teams were formed in Belgrade, Chačka, Jagodina, Šapcu, Valjevo, Prijepolje, Užica, Bora and Zajecaru. A specialist team was also formed to rescue from ruins with belonging complete equipment and specially trained dogs in the town of Kruševec. In the opinion of the proposed amendment, the ministry has rightly stated that encouraging the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is certainly one of the objectives of this bill and that is exactly the subject and this amendment. However, I remind you that there is no development without previously met preconditions for peace and stability in society. Today, organized orchestrated peace and stability in our society is being held in the Republic of Serbia. They're all absolutely scandalous, they're all amazed by those messages and those words that could be heard by Suleiman Ugljanin last night who called the Republic of Serbia a fascist creature, but you should know it's not a lonely message, that it's part of the same propaganda matrix. The same words were used by Slobodan Georgiev of BIRNA, who is known for it, and this organization is known for its shameful service for propaganda purposes to defile its own state and has been caught countless times in various lies. The same message was said several times in person and Dragan Gilas again today, today in the media, has again identified our country with fascist production. Those who serve in these words and who deal with these topics are dissatisfied with freedoms in the media as they say. This is quite possible for you today to see in the daily list, therefore, as dogs shown by MPs, ministers in the Serbian government, city officials, even some journalists who are not willing to draw, write and print such things. If anyone thinks they're so-called. Independent thinkers, so-called Free journalists are able to condemn these things, no, they're not. So, they're totally dividing those attitudes, and they're writing and telling the public. For example, Dusan Mašić asks Alexander Vukic to tie the dogs. For example, Ljiljana Lukic imagines Aleksandar Vukic starving his dogs, so these people who draw MPs and ministers in the government like this to let them go to the opponents. The same thought is given by Dragan Marsican, the same thoughts and self-proclaimed conscience of media associations Slavisa Lekic, who also says, appeal to Vukic to bind the dogs, thinking again of these people, first of all journalists who are not at his will and above all of all ministers who state their name and last name. The mentioned Lekic obviously does not accept sports when he is distracted that it is his so-called. An independent association of Serbian journalists directly funded by Dragan Gilas, so I see that in the daily texts he detests and says -- he won't shut up when he hears it. Great, we invite him not to speak, but to explain to everyone how well he feels and how nice he is when he gets from Dragan Gilas, for example, a modest loan of six million? Is that the price of professionalism? Is that the price of conscience? In the end, we know we don't talk to people who know what those words mean. Let them do their dirty work, and we'll do it and eventually it'll be just a clearer difference between us and them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48574	On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... My colleague Komic, on what grounds? (Gordana Comić: Time of Power. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48575	Thank you very much. Listening to the debate we are witnessing today in the National Assembly Hall, and on the solution of a future, likely adopted Law on Emergency Management and disaster disaster, there is an impression, at least carefully listening to amendments so far that there is a great chance that if we don't rely on professionals in the government to flood us again, because we are unfortunately not talking about solutions in the law and what's better than or we have the composition of how we've spent the floods or the classical folklore that promotes our government... You're not ashamed. People's MPs earn money, and I kept my feet in the laurels. If it can be there for anything, I will have a few minutes on the Serb list in Kosovo, on the files of all members of the Serbian List and on Milan Radojcic, if that is what it is, since you are pleased that fellow MPs are throwing out protests. I will not share with you the prosaclysm but I want to talk about the emergency situation and the catastrophic situation in Pristina, given the biography of Serbian MPs and Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj and all the profile of crime and files in both of them, just to fit in with this folklore. So, back to the law. The provisions of this law, carefully looking at the difference between the first law in 2009 and the amendments and the additions in 2011, are essentially limited to the fact that it is more clear that the organisation system will be established to know exactly who will do what in the shortest possible time and to know who will measure whether the result is correct and whether it is real. There's been a lot of talk here about prevention. I'm sorry that this is a lost time for those who are watching us and if we were able to talk about prevention here, that we could warn against cutting down trees so as not to create erosions, not to throw garbage into rivers, streams, so as not to clog drains, ditches, charms, so as not to zap the drain along the regional roads or rural roads. To make sure there's a small fire extinguisher in each building and know how to use it, to inform people by reading and learning how long it takes from the first weather to the moment when it's impossible to avoid a certain amount of water per square metre, when you're going to have a stream and you're going to have it. Let's talk about everything that's a prevention when it comes to stormy rains, lush water, or the damage to the ground by erosion. To send a clear message that the retentions are not recovered from the water streams in Serbia and that it is necessary not to build each of them a house in retention because it is a beautiful view. To remind ourselves that there are no innovative erosion maps for Serbia, which creates a huge problem for all those who want to work on prevention and that we are talking about the basic parameters of climate change that produce less or more changes that we experience as stormy rains, floods, slides, or that some case of fire as a result of events. So, what we citizens can do from today, from tomorrow, to be reduced risks of what is done as a consequence of when the ditch is rolled up, when the ditch is clogged, when the trees are cut, when the weather is not heard, when we don't have a fire extinguisher in the house, when we're not doing drain cleaning, or when we simply don't know where the sewers are going that can be produced. So I'm not talking about the appearances of 100-year-old high Mayan waters of Danube or low or of plums from time to time have extremities. It's nature against which you can't do anything, but what you can do is really prevent. This session would have been a well-tapped time if we had talked individually about each of the solutions by looking at shortcomings like I tried and that we had contributed to what really was prevention? What is it that each of us, taking personal responsibility, should do in order to reduce the risk of someone in a catastrophic situation that is defined by a member of this law, so as not to suffer him or material goods. In a small digression, we've probably all witnessed in films with the beautiful architecture of San Francisco and those famous fire escapes that are now adorned. They didn't exist before the fire that destroyed a good part of the city and unfortunately where many people died and since then you've had these famous fire escapes on buildings in San Francisco and otherwise. So, the fire roads we have in the buildings. Did we tell our kids what to do in the building if we're not here, that's prevention. So, to train all of us to know that the time we live without any elemental disaster, without disaster, is not the time of anyone but the moment that such a thing is about to happen. They say earthquakes, no prevention. There is. There, construction, building houses is a prevention for earthquakes, houses, bridges, underground buildings are built in Japan or Indonesia in a completely different way than in other parts of the world. That we want to talk about what may be the thorny points in our country's territory, since we know where earthquakes and those that have occurred, but ground configurations and panel collisions are possible. So, if we already wanted to contribute to the fact that a law that is in force in 2009 is innovated and that it really improves solutions that will allow the organisation of disaster recovery and disaster to be smoother. Nothing was written in the law that would prevent the entire organisation from playing much smoother in 2014. It's people, not what the law says. And if this is how we decide to share valuable time in what happened and how we've had our time in previous floods, it's the narrative of a society that says - these will happen again. I wouldn't like that, that's the last thing I do, and I share what I know about what prevention is. Why it is important to talk about prevention on the part of the ministry, and on the side of MPs, possibly media that are interested, because it is then a common effort that people are beginning to take seriously. That's how behavioral changes happen. Well, if we all say, don't put it in a stream that's normally lush tossing a shot, garbage, nylon, but put it somewhere else, I guess we understand that it's a prevention that if there's a rush that you're going to have an accident not because of the nature of the storm, but because of obstacles from garbage or clogged canals that people have made with their shot and other garbage because they don't care. I don't understand that part either, but they have every right to care, but then it's our job to tell them what it is to prevent any situation when it comes to emergency situations and emergency management. They say it is best that people have a very clear emergency management system and that they have a strong spread of hope that they will never happen. It's the best money you've ever invested so you don't spend it on a rescue or a rescue, but you just can't avoid some kind of accident whether they're natural or they're caused by artificial incidents of any kind. And these are about my remarks concerning the topics that we share in this session of the Assembly with hope knowing the sector's work and when the law was passed and I repeat that today I am sorry that we failed with Minister Dacic to make it the civil protection law, as it should be, but there was no majority. So, without doubting that you were able to respond to the task and fulfill all your responsibilities, I want you in this sector as little as possible. It's just prevention, education and the acquisition of basic resources, and as little as possible if it's not working to actually solve any kind of natural disaster that's affecting us because we can't influence it from not happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48576	A colleague of Martinovic's. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 107 was injured first of all, I must say, because of the citizens of Serbia that no SNS MP insulted Mrs Comic, nor referred to her any insults, but she said that we were writing some papers on how we spent our time in the floods. So he should ask MPs from Sapac how the citizens of Zapac were conducted by Dusan Petrovic, who absolutely did not apply any of the laws prescribed by him or his mayor to defend himself against the floods, so when Sava threatened to flood "Zorca", then Prime Minister, now the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic sent General Dikovic to rescue Shabac from the floods. Here, that's how we, as you say, spent our time since the flood. We have now heard a beautiful story, it should have been done this or that, to protect ourselves from the floods, but for the citizens of Serbia to know, Mrs Comic, who spoke on behalf of the Democratic Party, seems to have forgotten that her minister Oliver Dulic spent only on the site "Let's Clean Serbia" 25,000 euros. She should also know that the DS that ruled the Vojvodina from 2000 to 2016, so for the full 16 years, did nothing to clean the channels and water streams in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, although, every year, the AP Vojvodina budget allocated huge funds to clean the canals, water streams. We had floods in Jasa Tomic in 2005, floods occurred in certain parts of Vojvodina in 2014 and if they were not meant to happen, because the province's government of the Democratic Party was doing nothing but spending money without purpose. Here's something I'm thinking isn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48578	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48579	What? I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48580	My colleague, Comić, can you only do the amendment or the Rules of Procedure? By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48581	At the time of the amendment, I forgot to add to this part, while I am as an authorised president, the traits, biographies and criminal files of the Serb list and Ramush Haradinaj, and their impact on environmental damage. Mile Radojcic, for sure, has all the criminal records available and other MPs of the Serbian List, all they do in Kosovo is cause environmental damage. So, to do harm to what they should keep. If we have all one person with criminal records, if we have a Prime Minister in Pristina with a criminal record, and here we all think that Kosovo is an inalienable part of Serbia, then I believe that talking about how these criminals intend to work in emergency situations and disasters is to share information. This is information that exists in the public, therefore, is not fiction, crime that everyone has committed exists in the public, the Prime Minister has avoided responsibility for his crimes for the time being. There's public information about the crime structures that I'm very concerned with very smooth and simple, and I don't care about in this room that nobody cares about what's going to happen on that part of the country in case of catastrophic situations, natural disasters, and everything that's going on. That people with criminal records of prison sentences and those who flee from prison, such as the prime minister in Pristina who is in a coalition with the Serb list where they are the same, that they and how, in which credibility will deal with emergency situations and with disasters that are possible, since a part of the debate here is also about credibility. I do not dispute, as I have already said, the credibility of the representatives of the MUP, nor the merits of experts anywhere, but given the news in the public and the slow credibility of the people who are time in the government, the hour is not in the government, the hour is not going to jail, the hour is organised crime, the hour is not, as I slow down that part of the territory is not mentioned at all as if it were not people living at all, and here we have very large and passionate statements about what we are all prepared for and how many victims we are, because we need to make dialogue and normalisation between Belgrade and Pristina. It's a hypocritical thing to mean. Ethics have disappeared from politics and hence this vast space of moral corruption that you choose to crucify and who you don't want. I don't choose. Because there's no ethics, that's why we can pass the whole session and it comes down to what I call it, because that sounds like the compositions that are shared here. By the way, all and one amendment was refused by the government. Of course, I don't slow it down most of the time. It's a way for every MP to come to terms. It's a way to point out your government's successes. It's a way to maintain the image of what you think has been put into a lot of work to be the result. That part is not slow, as I do not dispute to do in agreement with the government, it is one way. If someone comes to you with the idea that a session and time can be used much better, then you simply don't have permission to sneeze with verbal violence and throw away. I don't expect the chairman to react to that. That can't be without sharing this subject that's really serious and I think it should also be a serious part of the conversation in this assembly, if you really feel like what you're calling for is. He can't do both. It cannot be the sincerest problem that the president of Serbia has the most and that we act here as if it does not exist. It can't. That's why I told you – this is, unfortunately, just as much folklore as the famous mantra that they are yellow for everything and yes, before the SNS won the first time in 2012, we had nothing, and then someone came and took everything away from us, like whenever it was half the last century. Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic: By Amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48582	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48583	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, dear Serbian citizens, to be honest with you, I will no longer be surprised by the statements by Ruza Tomasic and any other Ustashas at the expense of Serbia and the Serbian people when I hear these words in the Serbian parliament. There's really no need to be surprised anymore. What do we expect from Croats, Sulejman Ugljanin, who says Serbia is a fascist state, that Sandzak does not belong to Serbia, or Montenegro, but should be an independent republic, if one woman who is allegedly a Serbian woman says that the representatives of the Serb list in KIM are all to one criminal, that Serbia does nothing for KIM, that we support the war criminal Ramush Haradinaj. I will not be surprised at anything that comes from Zagreb, anything that comes from Sarajevo, anything that comes from certain Bosniaks from Novi Pazar after these words that I have just heard. Because of Serbian citizens, I want to repeat what the previous speaker seems to have forgotten. In 2000 and 2001, the NJen party released several thousand Cypriot terrorists from Serbian prisons who publicly admitted that during 1998, 1999, therefore, during armed conflicts, their eyes were drawn, slaughtered, raped, etc. I want to remind Mrs. Comić that when they came to power in 2000...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48584	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48585	What end now, Mr. Arsic? Well, I said I answered after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48586	You're entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48587	I have an obligation as president of a parliamentary group to defend Serbia against those who think this is some state parliament, where the same state can be best offended. I don't know if you've heard what Mrs. Comic said about her own country that she allegedly belongs to and for the Serb people at KIM? That it's all criminals, thieves, thugs down there, and I don't know what kind of epithets they used. So, I answered the amendment. Mrs. Comic seems to have forgotten that when they came to power in 2000 that they said that KIM was a democratic issue, that Milosevic caused a war on KIM because he could not speak to representatives of Albanians with KIM, and that is why they will. DOS can talk to them and they will solve this issue in a peaceful way. The way they saved him, we saw it. In 2008, KIM declared independence. US President Boris Tadic then fled to Romania for one day, reportedly on an official visit to Bucharest, and then in 2010, knowing in advance what the International Court of Justice's decision would be, asked the same International Court of Justice whether it was a decision by the assembly in Pristina to declare its independence as KIM in accordance with international law, and knew that judges of the International Court of Justice did not make decisions on their own, but in accordance with their country's official policy and lay it was clear what the decision of the International Court of Justice would be. Here, Mrs Comic, in the spirit of an unprecedented Serbia, honours why we are participating in the government, in the work of the government in Pristina, to preserve what is to be saved from you who have destroyed all traces of Serbian statehood and all traces of Serbian institutions. That's what you DS did. That's what Boris Tadic did. That's what Wolf Jeremic did. That's what Dusan Petrovic did. That's what all of you, who are now the leader of the Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Gilas, would do it again if the people, in some cases, would trust you with power. You're threatening to bring up one criminal record at a time. I call on you, you stand free, let's see who these criminals are at KIM who defend Serbian interests. Criminals, according to you. I'd love to hear what they did criminally. What did he steal on KIM Marko Djuric? What did Branimir Stojanovic steal? What did any of those people who live on Kim today steal? Don't forget, you had a minister in the so-called The Kosovo government before the Serb list appeared, Goran Bogdanovic. Was he the Minister of Agriculture at the time when the border was established on Jarinj and Brnjak? That's what happened in your time. How many times was Boris Tadic as president of the Republic at KIM, try counting, and how many times was Alexander Vukic? He went among the Serbs and then when it was easy and when it was hard. How much money did you spend on Kim while you were in power? Well, you didn't single out almost anything, because you weren't interested in KiM. The important thing is that Oliver Dulic is rich, important that Dragan Dilas is rich, important that Vuk Jeremic spends on the most expensive hotels. That was your policy towards KIM. Those of you who, when you mention biography, openly admitted that you had completed CIA courses as your former party president and defence minister, who had not otherwise passed the BIA security check, Dragan Sutanovac, wrote in official biography as a candidate for defence minister in the second government of Vojislav Kostunica in 2007, that he had completed a intelligence course at the Marshall Centre in the Federal Republic of Germany, in Garmispartikirhen. So now you respect what you said you did for Kim? We are doing everything possible to preserve the sprawl people in KIM, to preserve municipalities where Serbs are in the majority, to save what can be saved, after 12 years of your devastating rule. Remember a little of your statements from 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, etc. How are you going to solve all this, you big Democrats, you big Europeans, you citizens' politicians? How did you save him? You didn't save him at all. You left us KIM as an unresolved problem, as a cow's wound today, as you left the Serbian economy as a wound that bleeds to this day, as you left Serbian medicine as a wound that bleeds to this day. You had a health minister, I don't know how you're not ashamed of all of you together, you had a health minister who didn't have the courage to be treated in his own country but was treated in Germany and spent a million euros on it, people's money. About Bojan Pitiæ's criminal affairs, you know better than I do. You know more about Oliver Dulic's criminal affairs than I do, and how much money was spent and what companies were being set up for tenders, and how you got rich, as the people grew poorer, and how in four years you managed to bring GDP down to a minus 3.1% and how in four years you left over 400,000 people out of work. Here, these are your biographies. The biographies of your leaders, the biographies of those who led Serbia, those who led Vojvodina. Bruca and shame. The Serbian people had no worse power than the one that hit him on October 5th 2000. And all that's going on today on KIM is the consequence of what you did, from 2000 to 2012. If someone is Ramush Haradinaj's greatest and sincere ally, it's you from the Alliance for Serbia. You have allowed these bandits and criminals to declare their independence in KIM in 2008, and you are those who have been silent all along, because you were more important to win Boris Tadic in the second round of the KIM presidential election, and because you are always more important, not only to KIM, but you would have given up any part of the territory, you might not have, possibly, Belgrade, because there is still a lot of money in Belgrade, so you think you steal what you failed to steal while you were in power. But there is no part of the state territory that you would not have given up just to come back to power, so that all Serbian people and all Serbian citizens ride Dragan Djilas, Solak, Vuk Jeremic and all those who are with you in the coalition can continue where you left off in 2012. I don't mind, if the people show you confidence, I really don't mind, if the people say that the alternative is to Alexander Vukic and SNS Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Dusan Petrovic, you, Zoran Lutovac, Dragan Sutanovac, I don't mind, but you will have to win the elections. You won't hang the Prime Minister, you won't hang the President of the Republic, we won't let you do it, you won't rephrase October 5th, you'll have to beat us in the election. So you only have one small, that condition. You're very strong, you're very powerful, there are over 20 organizations in that alliance of yours, which is for such a large and strong political organization to defeat a small, incompetent SNS. So you only have this one small condition to beat us in the election. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48588	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Krivokapic, do you think the discussion of the gentleman is not good or are you having problems with the electronic system? ( Krivokapic: She mentioned me, I am a member of the Serbian List presidency. ) Right to replica, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48589	Thank you. Very briefly, there is no reason for any MP to be excited, with all due respect for a renewed view of what we yellow have done. You beat us, you saranized us, except you don't know we're seeds. At least you're missing trying to talk to each other here in this room, not telling folk texts about what happened and the accusations about who's black and who's white, and why it can only be good if it turns out that the other one is bad. You have on the rule of Serbia, not your yellow obstacles, I repeat, crushed, more of our efforts, but more of yours, and saranized. The only thing you haven't seen is that we're seeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48590	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48591	I have nothing against DS. You have your policy and go ahead with Dragan Dilas, with Bosko Obradovic, with Vuk Jeremic, with Dusan Petrovic, go ahead and what the hell. I have responded here to your statement that all representatives of the Serb list are criminals... (Gordana Comić: That's right. MPs. All right, thank you. You're a criminal, aren't you? Here is a criminal, Mr Marinkovic, from the Serbian List, professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Kosovo Mitrovica, my colleague Krivokapic. There's a criminal. (Gordana Comic: He is not an MP. If you read his biography of that great criminal, there is not a single crime in that biography. They have volumes and volumes of textbooks for students of the Medical Faculty, have articles published in the most prestigious magazines in the world dealing with medicine. I don't know how you're not ashamed of people like this, and there are other people like that, you call them criminals. Say, please, Krivokapic, what did you steal at KIM? What did you steal on Kim? Did you make a site that costs 25,000 euros? Did you make the right website? Did any of the Serbs on the KIM site cost 25,000 euros "Let's Clean Serbia"? So no one's done it since the Serbian list. Tell Krivokapic, did you let some Shiptar terrorist out of prison, you and your colleagues in the Serbian List? Did you do it? (Gordana Comic: Tell me who killed Oliver Ivanovic.) ) Did you say that KIM is a democratic issue and when we bring down power in Belgrade, with the help of our friends from abroad, then we will solve the question of KIM? Did you tell Krivokapic or anyone in the Serb list? No, it's Mrs. Comic here eyelessly bagging the Serb list and the Serb people living on KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48592	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48593	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respecting the chairman and those who earn, this was no ordinary throwaway. This has been a pitch that we've been qualified to do, and I'm advertising Article 108 and 109 as criminals. I can't agree with that. I didn't take a bath at Schiller's. I did not release 2,108 Albanian terrorists, including the Mazreka brothers. I didn't silence the murder of children in Gorazdevec. I didn't let the Shiptars out of jail. It's not my fault that Momir Gavrilovic was killed. It's not my fault that Bosko Bohemian was killed. I didn't allow criminals to pave the way, that's what another party did. I wasn't in the government, I don't know what his name was, Rexhepi, from 2002 to 2004. I wasn't in the government and stayed in the government and after the disgusting murder of two little boys and wounded three or four on the river, it seems to me, Bistrica in Gorazdevec. It wasn't me, they were. This qualification about us, if we were criminals, was very difficult and you, despite respecting Mrs. Komic, had to reach out to some of the measures in Articles 208 and 209, but you were forgiven, you should be tolerated. We should cultivate the opposition even though it's not against us. A large part, except for Mrs Comic, is against this state, against the rise of Serbia's state. I want to say something to Mrs. Comic, respecting her completely. This seed, which she claims will come down, will not go down, is pollinated with Ljotic and Gilas, and never will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48594	Thank you. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I don't need to explain, with the need to warn all MPs, I'm sorry that DS MPs aren't in the O.R., they came out, so we don't use words that hard, especially for our own. (Marian Risticevic: Me? No, for the followers who got out of the O.R. ... Especially for our colleagues in the Serb list, who are truly one honorable and in very difficult conditions, are fighting in the territory of KIM for the rights of Serbs, and I think we should also have a sensitivity. If we don't have each other here, but we have to have them. They are representatives of our people who have been elected in the elections. Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Milimir Vujadinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48595	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected members of the government, before it begins, I can't shake the impression, I'm still in shock based on what we heard today in the Serbian Parliament. All political representatives of the Serbs at KIM are called criminals. I guess that's kind of a trend in the last few months. I would remind you that in August, the same Alliance for Serbia requested that a citizen in Serbia, who only commented on the efforts of Serbian President Milorad Dodik, who commented on the efforts of Serbian President to achieve any, let me say, solutions that would allow life on KIM, sought the ban on entry into the Republic of Serbia, Milorad Dodik. When he called KiM only a month and a half ago, Bakir Izetbegovic, an independent state, did not react. Also, they did not react when a new member of the Komsic presidency did the same, again only Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic reacted, and I think that says it in itself enough. Now I'm going to move on to the amendment. The intensity of my amendment, distinguished colleagues, to point to the need to prevent the consequences of the migrant crisis and, as such, contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to all those tumultuous and historic events in which Serbia has been in the last two decades, we have had one global problem at which we have found ourselves, not our own fault. At the center of that problem, we were neither guilty nor obliged. Alone, at the beginning. at the root of that problem, we couldn't influence it in any way. However, the fact is that we became part of the i.e. A large part of the solution, i.e. the removal of the consequences caused by this problem. We had a really big impact on that part, we could often serve as an example of some of the more developed European and world societies. That problem is a slightly newer date. It is new to Europe, new to the world, at least Europe has not met in this form the problem of migration, and Serbia is ready to welcome it thanks to the system that has been put in place and the system has welcomed it and more than a million and 200,000 people have gone through it. Of course, all the positive assessments of all UN agencies, international organisations, individual countries of Europe and the world followed, and we came to the point that Serbia is creating a new positive picture of itself. It is a new positive image that ultimately affects Serbia's development. You're asking me how? By a positive image and a positive picture of Serbia, which President Vukic is working on in previous years and how it affects some new investments in Serbia, because there are no new investments in a country that has no positive image. Of course, we had opponents in that business, too. They were mostly from today's Alliance for Serbia, and the opposition was seen in the coasters and lies that, God knows, we're going to be working on some kind of massive migrant settlement in Serbia. But the truth is completely different. The truth is that today we have a picture of Serbia as one human country and responsible, when it comes to this global problem and the truth is that in Serbia today we have only about three thousand people and they are all at reception centres in the Republic of Serbia and framed by one legal control. My amendment wanted to show how, in some crisis situations, you can, with a responsible policy and responsible action, create an opportunity for a good image of the country, and thus, in the future, influence the overall development of your own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48596	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the urgency of my amendment is to bring this law into contact with the development of a common development of the national security system in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that our country has invested a lot of resources in equipping our military, police and our intelligence services for the last two years alone. We got six new moves, the Russians helped us remount four of our existing ones, we got new helicopters for the military and for the police, new tanks, new combat vehicles, but also new uniforms, of course new boots. All this would not have been possible if it hadn't been for a proper and prudent economic policy, had it not been for the stabilisation of public finances, had it not been for GDP growth, investment and job creation. We can't have a strong army if we don't have a strong economy. I think the SNS has shown that such a policy is only possible. What I'm trying to say and to refer to my colleague Vladimir Orlic's discussion is that speaking of national security, the messages that have actually come to us from Sulejman Ugljanin, I don't think they absolutely contribute to the good relations between Serbs and Bosniaks. Sulejman Ugljanin, I guess in the heat of winning the Bosniak National Council elections, said, "These problems are that Bosniaks do not have the status of the people and have not resolved Sandzak's status, which has been occupied by the country since 1912. Serbia and Montenegro do not have a deed over Sandzak, and if they want to register it as their territory, they will have to register Bosniaks as a people in the Constitution. We won the elections in this, and we will represent it." He said, to the people in Belgrade, who wanted to take the Bosniak national council, he said that it had failed them and that their work was barren. But what really worries is that it is something that should concern both Serbs and Bosniaks and representatives of all political parties, it is the following sentence: "I am pleased that we will now share with more political options the responsibility and that together we will overcome this immeasurable, fascist formation, the Serbian state of Serbia that wants to legalise genocide and crimes, as a means of conquering territory and resolving political issues." This is a statement that is truly inappropriate, this is a statement that can be freely characterized as a war-hospital, a statement that cannot bring good to anyone living in the Rasko-Polim area. I don't want to go into terminology. The Bosniaks are probably glad that the area is called Sandzak. That's not the problem. The problem is when you say that it is an area occupied by the state of Serbia and when you call the state that organises elections for national councils fascist, there is no choice in fascist states. That's what Suleyman Carbonin should know. There is a choice in democratic states. Serbia is a democratic state. Serbia is the state of all citizens living in it. The state is a Serbian people, but so is all those who live in it and who are not Serbs. Serbia is also the state of Bosniaks. Sulejman Ugljanin wants to create an atmosphere that he created in the early 1990s, when he organized a referendum on so-called "the". Sandzak's autonomy and when he wanted to declare the republic of Sandzak. It's a policy that's very dangerous. After all, such statements are unfair and do not deeply match the facts. If anyone has done something good to correct the relationship between Serbs and Bosniaks, to overcome the trauma between Serbs and Bosniaks, both Bosniaks living in Serbia and Bosniaks from Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is Alexander Vukic. It wasn't easy for him to go to Srebrenica in 2015. And until today, we didn't get the answers to the question of who was trying to kill the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic? Alexander Vukic, even though his life was hanging from the end, as you saw, did not bow his head before those who wanted to kill him. We're not gonna bow our heads in front of Sulaiman Ugljanin today. We have nothing against Bosniaks, Bosniaks are our friends, our neighbours, our citizens, and we will take care of them as we care about all other citizens of Serbia in every other part of the Republic of Serbia. But we will not allow Serbia to be declared a fascist state. She never was, and especially not today. And that's what Suljo Ugljanin should know. If he thinks that these statements will force Alexander Vukic to take him to the Serbian government -- he will not. And I will repeat only what our president said a few months ago, responding to a similar statement by Ugljanin – Sulyo, there is no chair for you in Belgrade. There is no chair for those who call the state of birth, the state in which they participated in the elections, a fascist state. So Serbia is not a fascist state, Serbia is a democratic state and let it honor anyone who hides behind Bosniak or any other minority identity dares to call the state where they participate in the elections, in which they live, their children, their grandchildren, call the fascist state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48598	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. By amendment, the Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48599	After what Mr. Martinovic said, there is really not much objection to this, because everything he said about Sulejman Ugljanin is true that he is trying to create an artificially bad atmosphere for national minorities in Serbia, above all in the Raška area. But we have a problem here. Mr. Martinovic says -- he will not get Suljo Ugljanin based on this chair in the government of the Republic of Serbia. But what about whoever has a chair in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Suleiman Ugljanin went to this election with his list called "Self-Determination". With it, the pre-election coalition concluded the election list "Vakat je". The election list "Vakat je" was supported by Rasim Ljajic. So, a man who has a chair for almost 20 years in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Suleiman Ugljanin last night, they were together, and that list "Vakat is" and "Self-determination" in Novi Pazar, bahanalised all night, celebrated some victory, although I'm not sure I can see it as a victory for the two in the coalition, but, well, that's their thing. But Sulejman Ugljanin, what you said to Mr. Martinovic, said -- together we will destroy the fascist formation of the Serbian state. Along with the one he made the coalition with, along with the one supported by Rasim Ljajic. The same group, they cried out all night – one and only wish to slaughter the Duke of Seselj and - Vukić, gay. This all night has been plowing with Novi Pazar and the only question that we need to get here is whether Rasim Ljajic, as Deputy Prime Minister, is still behind the support of this coalition "Self-Determination" and "Vakat is", that group "Vakat is", which is part of the policy of Sulejman Ugljanin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48600	Right on line, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I absolutely find Suleiman's statement unacceptable. That is what Minister Rasim Ljajic said today. We can never stand as a party behind such war-hoofing statements. The Social Democratic Party is a state-of-the-art party related to Serbia, will remain tied to Serbia. Be assured that we will always insist on our state of Serbia and will not allow anyone to pass, on either side, whether by Sandzak or by this side, to pass, "but a passover".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48602	Thank you. Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48603	No one will do so while Serbia is as a legal and democratic state to slaughter Vojislav Seselj. Be not afraid of him, but I say what they say. I understand what you're saying. What they're yelling "Wolf, faggot," and that's what they're yelling at stadiums here in Belgrade, it's nothing new. But I want to say something else. The purpose and motivation of my exposure is not to threaten anyone or to demean members of any national minority. What both Serbs and Bosniaks should understand well is that the Rasko-Polim area, as we call it, or Sandzak, as Bosniaks call it, does not need such statements as Sulejman Ugljanin's statement. They need investment, they need new jobs, they need better schools, they need better hospitals, they need more brains, more understanding, more style. SNS policy is a style, a permanent style between Serbs and Muslims, or Bosniaks, as they are today called. I just want to remind myself that the Bosniak National Council has no authority to change the borders of the Serbian state, has no authority to lead the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, will not Suljo Ugljanin secede Sandzak or any other part of the Republic of Serbia. The Bosniak national council will have to act in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia, and this primarily means that it deals with those powers that are laid down by law in the competencies of every national council, including Bosniak, means education, information, culture, customs, language, letter, so it will deal with the Bosniak and every other national council that exists in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48604	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. (Miss Radeta: Replica. You can do it by amendment. (Verica Radeta: The mention is Vojislav Seselj in a negative context. ) Not in a negative context, absolutely, even protected him. According to the amendment, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48605	I thank the chairman. I also support, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, the amendment of the esteemed colleague Martinovic, who has given one broader context of events that are very current, especially today both media and political. So on behalf of all of us socialists, I point out facts that no one will question. The first fact is that the town of Novi Pazar is one of the cities in Serbia. The second fact is that the territory of Novi Pazar is an integral part of Serbia's territory. And the third fact is that in that territory, as well as in the territory of the Raška area, which is not only for Bosniaks but also for Serbs, Montenegrins and other nationalities, a referendum has been called, or better to say elections for the Council of National Minorities. So the state of Serbia has shown its full democratic capacity, because the state of Serbia is a democratic state and in its full democratic capacity, Serbia has allowed Bosniaks to freely express their electoral rights, and this is what Bosniaks have expressed. This is the Bosniak people who have achieved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees both the rights of Bosniaks and Serbs and all other nations and nationalities in the territory of our country. If so, and so, then what else, but condemning statements suggesting that the state of Serbia is a fascist creation, that the president of the Serbian state is some sort of dictator or someone who is trying to put his country and part of his country under some ditch. Well, whether the citizens of Serbia, who and how they can think, and this can be clear, that in their country someone is trying part of the territory, their country to put under some kind of subjugation or fascist oppression. Indeed, these statements, respected counterpart Martinovic, must earn a full conviction, but not only a conviction, must earn something much different, and that is intervention by the authorities of the Serbian state institution, primarily judicial institutions. This is not something but an attack on the state of Serbia, this is nothing more than an attack on the state order, on our legal system and our legal system. This is nothing but an attack on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If attacks like this are present, someone really has to deal with it. Whether someone will be processed, because of these statements, remains to be seen, remains to wait. I also believe on behalf of the Socialists that the prosecution cannot remain here without reaction, that they must process or at least operationally take into account all those statements aimed at destroying the state of Serbia, in light of its order and at the risk of its system. An alibi for a good result, in any case, is not something that involves freedom of expression. On the other hand, the statements made by Mr Ugljanin, in no way can be covered by an alibi for the result, because this result, however it is, does not give him the right to through what he has democratically achieved, where he has managed in a democratic way to reach the level he has reached in the elections, to define himself according to the state that has allowed him to destroy that same state. Mr. Martinovic, I think you were absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48606	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. (Miss Radeta: By the Rules of Procedure.) ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48607	I guess at least I can get that, it's amazing I didn't get a line, but it doesn't matter. You should take care of the application of article 27. You can't be the only member of your party here, Mr. Marinkovic. You must be the chairman for which all MPs here should have the same status. You'd give anyone in this case the right to a replica, but you wouldn't give it to me. But what bothers you is that you are jumping on every mention and you of these colleagues, to mention the name Rasim Ljajic, that's your problem. You can't stop us and stop us from mentioning what we know and what we have knowledge of. And, then Mr. Mijatovic says, they as a state-run party will protect Serbia from destruction, as I understood those in Sandzak, as he said, and these here, pointing to us. So you're not responding? You don't mind. Well, Serbian radicals have never broken the state, and we will never allow anyone to break the state of Serbia, but you remain in debt, or Rasim Ljajic remains a debt to this people, the government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who stood behind him, remains a duty to answer whether he will continue, will this group of Wakat that was in this election, will it go to coalition with the sole determination of Sulejman Ugljanin? It's a fundamental question, because they've made a pre-election coalition. The election passed, we still don't have the final results, but whatever they are, that's the question we're looking for the answer, is Rasim Ljajic with Sulja Ugljanin and after this going to the coalition and whether Rasim Ljajic stands the drug cartel in Novi Pazar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48608	Thank you. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, and of course you're as right as any MP in this room. Absolutely when I sit in this place I do not represent my own party but does my job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you have once again given me an argument that you did not have the right to reply and that I have made a good decision in accordance with Article 104 because I have not noticed that Professor Mijatovic absolutely pointed to anyone, not to you, nor to your parliamentary group. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Natas Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48609	Mr. Marinkovic, you can't be an advocate of some state policy of Serbia while you're in a coalition with Vukic because you often visit not one television with a national frequency and close your eyes here and stick your head in the sand in front of really scary things in today's day. I'm reporting for article 1074 because your opposition colleague Mijatovic hurt and brutally violated the dignity of the National Assembly by speaking to us Serbian radicals, Maltene wanted to identify us with Sulejman Ugljanin, and what is most terrible to Mr Martinovic, Ugljanin said not only about the state of Serbia, but also called on the public link of all Serbs working in the Raška area of state institutions. He said, quote, that they're fascist pawns who work and by the blink of the Russians will do anything to reportedly disappear, as he said, the Bosniaks from that space. Now you tell me, Mr. Marinkovic, when you or some official in Rasim Ljajic's party, and you supported it, you probably went to some Ugljanin rally, and in such a way as to warmly support him as Marinkovic, along with Sulja there, searched for the list, how is it possible that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you MPs who show any respect for it? Well, you're supposed to say today if you're like Vladimir Marinkovic for something like that, so I'm not calling you here by name right now. Well, since you're not ashamed, you support someone who wants to break Serbia at a moment, change the Constitution. Here, there is Nela Kuburovic, the minister of justice, the same Ugljanin, as early as January, asked for the constitution to change and tailor the way he wanted it to at the request of his mentors. Don't pretend to be ignorant and you this unfortunate Mijatovic here. Two years ago, when Ugljanin started with that... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48610	Thank you. You're out of time. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and neither of you is correct, nor collegiately invited me to answer you, and you know I can't do it from this position, and I would very much like to answer you. (Natasa Jovanovic: So leave Arsic, and answer. There's someone from our parliamentary group. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? You don't want to, okay? Milorad Mijatovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48611	I really don't think any controversy is necessary. Article 27. Every polemic is unnecessary. Mr. Vice President with 103, Mr. Vice President, this can no longer be heard, that MPs are offended. Indeed, I am not unhappy, but let him who speaks think about it be happy and unhappiness. You know very well that the Social Democratic Party did not participate in these elections. We gave support to the list of honest people, competent people, scientists, people of professors, and we gave that support, but it was given by the Sandzak Democratic Party. Any further commitment I think is unnecessary without leading to anything. The party that comes up for the word is known to construct affairs, to invent lies. This has been the case for 20 years and a few years in this Serbia, and they have been doing what they have done so far, precisely the greatest damage, by applying to the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48612	Thank you, Professor. Mijatovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48613	Article 27(1) in relation to Article 107 Here we heard really very offensive remarks from my colleague, Mijatovic. Here, I don't know why he's throwing, he could've done it a little sooner, he had time, all free, no need to hysterically jump. Feel free to call again, I won't intervene if he repeats the same member of the Rules of Procedure that I am now advertising. It is indeed inadmissible to allow a colleague to address the MPs of the SRS in this way. To say that we survive in the making-up of affairs, there is no man in Serbia who believes it, but there is no man in Serbia who loves us or hates us or is indifferent, there is no man in Serbia who will not say – if it is when Vojislav Seselj said it, then it is true. Practice has shown that this is the case. You just laugh, and you know it. Just laugh. We don't survive on making up affairs, we don't survive on having an affair, and you survive on the lists of other parties. You're a survivor. You go out to the election once, so let's see where you are and how many MPs you'll have. From one car to another, from Boris Tadic's list, on the list of Alexander Vukic. You are immoral people, because only immoral people can do such a thing and go by here because you were introduced to your hump this time by Aleksandar Vukic, last time by Boris Tadic, next time you'll be offering yourself to someone again. You can't tell anyone that it survives on something other than what's party politics. You don't have a policy, because you're little Bosniaks, little Social Democrats. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48614	Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day, since I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Miss Radeta: No.) Thank you. The word is Dr Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48615	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I just got back from the amendment of my esteemed colleague Martinovic, and I'm going to say one word he said to support, but I just can't be satisfied, because I don't see a solution to what we're going to do about Mr. Ugljanin's statement, and we have to do something. I always get up from this pay phone when Sandzak is mentioned, because in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia there is no such thing. We agree with counterpart Martinovic that it is the Raška area, but we must agree that it is not the first time Mr. Ugljanin has had these slips. He almost called someone the foreign minister, some so-called. A country that's part of the territory, so we shut up, so we keep quiet when he's having these outbursts. There's the minister of justice. I am sorry that Mr. Interior Minister is not here, to ask them what we are going to do, because Serbia has shown and I agree with the distinguished colleague Jovanovic and I am closer to his position that we must do something about it. We have shown the greatest democratic potential. We have given the possibility for all national minorities in the state of Serbia to exercise their rights through national councils in what you said was the activity of these national councils, they realize. When I talk from this pay phone about the rights of Serbs, in the surrounding countries I have no support on the side, and I will tell Mr. Ugljanin, because I don't know if you will for various reasons, because we will remember, not so long ago, he was a minister, without any portfolio, but he was sitting in the government, and it is true that President Mr. Vukic told him almost – Suljo, there is no chair and you won't fight that way. I will propose to him what is the greatest democratic principle that can exist, since he does not like it in Serbia – well, let him leave it. It has a wide field, it has the possibility of democratic decision-making. He doesn't like it in Serbia, let him leave her. We cannot remain silent and power and opposition to what we do. The Raška area is not Sandzak. Raška area, there's the heart of Serbia. There was a Serbian medieval state, there were pillars and Sopocans, and we can't let them turn out like that, and we're surprised every day when Mr. Ugljanin, and remember when he almost left, as he said, Grandmother Erdogan for a few days visiting. I remind you that the largest Turkish friend among the first has recognised Kosovo. We have to act. How? I'd like to hear it. I suggested it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48616	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48617	I have already said, which I would be surprised by the statements made by Sulejman Ugljanin, when here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I hear the same words at the expense of the Serb people living in KIM, being represented by criminals, scum, thieves and all other epithets, these people are not named. You say we keep our mouths shut. Here, as you can see, we're not silent. The SNS in the National Assembly has just raised the issue of Sulajman Ugljanin's statement. Let Sulja do her job, we'll do ours. We will continue to extend our hand to our friends Bosniaks, both Serbs and Bosniaks in Novi Pazar and Tutina, Sjenica, every other part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia needs what I need and you need, what both your children and mine need. It takes good roads, good schools, good hospitals, a chance to stay in their own country, work, so they can start their families here. They need peace, they need stability, they need understanding of each other. Do not have any fear, no one will break off any part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because nothing bad will happen to anyone, because Sulja Ugljanin has managed to get the largest number of seats in the Bosniak National Council, but the state of Serbia will remain comprehensive, and the government of Serbia and the President of the Republic and we who support them here in the National Assembly will continue to do our jobs, to bring further investors from both the country and abroad to that part of the Republic of Serbia, to open new jobs, to build even better roads, to build even better schools, to open new schools, to work on, to have more of us in that area, both Serbs and Bosniaks and all others.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48618	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The right to replica has Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48619	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We agree, Mr. Martinovic, that you were the first to say and I support those words, but I expect works, and words like words to the sect. We marvel at Sulejman Ugljanin when he says Serbia is a fascist creation, and I hear from you that I am a fascist. Not from you personally. On that side, a lot of times and I keep asking to keep an eye on what we're saying. What do we do, for example? With that, Mr. Martinovic, what's in SNS Prepolje in the Ugljanin coalition? Will you leave the coalition? That's what we have to do. We can't keep quiet. I know we feel the same way, but let's do the same. I have so many friends of the Bosniaks, I hope, just as good as your friends, who I hear regularly, we congratulate the holidays, we visit. It's not a question. He's a slow man who puts this kind of rhetoric into the state of Serbia and tries to build something he can't leave without a conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48620	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48621	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, fully respecting the previous speaker, I'm advertising Article 107. Fascism is a strange thing. I understand in a certain way the Coal of Carbon. Serbia was good for him when he had a chair here. The moment he lost his chair, Serbia was no longer a state for him. That's Suleiman's position on the carbon. It's a man of conflict, a man who wants to homogenize Bosniaks around a conflict that will cause it itself. I am not one of those who will fall for the warring, war-torn and nationalist statements of Suleiman Ugljanin. Serbia needs to move forward. It's easy for us and Sulejman Ugljanin, very easy, but I'm asking these rhetoricals who are loudly condemning, which I do, Sulejman Ugljanin – did they condemn with equal weight the call for hanging, the invitation to hang on the terraces, the invitation to rape, that sort of as a minimum of fascism, did they also condemn the call for coup, the military arrest, and the police arrest of the regular elected president of the Republic of Serbia? I didn't hear it from these benches where I heard loud, justifiably loud outflows to Suleiman Ugljanin. I think he deserved it, but that as Parliament, we deserve to be explained from those benches, by this alliance of boskomir-pastom to explain to us -- is it a statement that Empress Milica is her daughter Olivera's pimp, a prostitute's official attitude to the coalition, or is it just one of the leaders? Is that part of fascism? Is that part of what you call hate speech? I agree with that. We must have equal treatment for everyone. In doing so, we need to separate Sulaiman Ugljanin from the Bosniaks, because the Bosniaks did not deserve to have such a Suleiman of the carbon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48622	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Mr. Jovanovic, by amendment? (Nedjo Jovanovic: I am mentioned by my colleague. Yes, but you're not in a negative context, he just agreed with you. You can do it by amendment, but there's an advantage for the Belief of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48623	It seems to me that we are all here at least declarably in agreement that what Sulaiman's Ugljanin said was not good and that it came across a general conviction. What I said in the first or any previous announcement, I would like to remind myself that in 2016 Sulejmanin Ugljanin had similar verbal outbursts, such as these these days, and then Rasim LJajic fenced himself from him and all the worst said about those statements, but then the question of how two years later he found himself in a coalition with him. That seems very dishonest. Rasim LJajic said three days ago – if he does not win the coalition, he meant his coalition "Vakat is" and "Sulejman Ugljanin, will burn Novi Pazar. It's not made up. That's what he said directly to the camera. He said further that Bosniaks must turn their brains on. So he insulted the Bosniaks or Muslims, as we call them, but anyway it doesn't matter. What Sulejman Ugljanin says should be condemned, but it's not so dangerous, it's not Sulley, it can beat what it wants, because in the end it's just chatter, but it's much more dangerous that the New Market is full of drugs that are poisoning and killing Serbian and Muslim children. This is a problem that needs special attention, and that is, we are telling you, and how it relates to Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48624	The word is Vladimir Marinkovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48625	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly. I'm advertising Article 107. The Rules of Procedure have been broken, it has been broken several times during the days and days before, given that the talk, the first to violate the dignity of the National Assembly, the second to which one of the parliamentary groups absolutely does not talk about the agenda, at least to say something that is related to the agenda and these drafts of the law and the amendment that Mr. Martinovic has explained, but this really has nothing to do with it. We have here on stage one expression of fiction, but I can say freely the frustrations of the previous speaker to Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic. This is what I'm going to explain by the fact that this is a two-Serbian collision. It is the collision of two Serbias, one that is in ruptaj, one that is at its full sunset and one that affects and contributes to the modernisation of our country, which promotes all the civilized values Serbia needs to achieve and which it has reached over the past few years. I believe that the SDPS and how it contributed, especially Mr. Rasim Ljajic. Whatever he was doing in the mandates and now, while the Minister of Trade, and in previous mandates, did a lot for human rights, did a lot for those who were accused, who were in trouble, and they can testify to some colleagues here. When no one wanted to do a state job, when no one wanted to obey the law 10, 15 years ago, that was Rasim Ljajic, and this is thanking him. This is the result of that frustration and fiction, but we know what this is about. Modern Serbia will win. I'm not asking to make a statement in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48626	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48627	Article 27(1) Of course, you can't talk about frustration here, at least not the frustration of the MPs of the SRS. There's really no reason. We dominate here in this House, so I don't see what we'd be frustrated about. When it comes to some division of Serbia on one or the other, and what Mr Marinkovic was talking about, I know, we only know about one single Serbia. Whose policy is obsolete, whose policy is not, is assessed by voters, but what is the fact is that Marinkovic belongs to a smaller number of people who would like to see him in Serbia's Scott's Serbia. We Serbian radicals don't allow it. We really need to clear up once and for all that Rasim Ljajic has been helping. We spoke positively of Rasim Ljajic in terms of co-operation with him when we worked together as a defence team for Vojislav Seselj, but he didn't do, you know, anything spectacular, he didn't even do what was supposed to be done. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic knew that, she was a member of the team at the beginning. Our office, The Hague in Serbia, was under obligation at the moment when it sent some documentation to The Hague prosecutors to deliver the copy to the defence team. Now, that never happened, but when we find out, when our president finds out in The Hague that the prosecution got some paperwork, then we call Rasim Ljajic and we say, "Why didn't you send us?" He says, "Behold, I'll tell the departments to come and get one." Now, that's true, so he was doing that civil work, but only when we were looking for it. And he never did, he said he couldn't have done it if Dragan Sutanovac hadn't given it to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48628	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48629	Please, just let me finish this sentence. He said he was not given to Dragan Sutanovac, he never gave us the files of Aleksandar Vasiljevic, who is the most responsible for the crimes that are being put on the burden of Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48630	I'll give you the amendment, Nedjo Jovanovic and Vladimir Marinkovic. And I'd like to ask you to sort of go back to the amendments, anyway, you get the amendment first, so Nejo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48631	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly. Of course, as Professor Mijatovic earlier said as a parliamentary group, as MPs who seek and support the largest party in this parliament, which are part of the majority, which are state-efficient and thus behave, of course we strongly condemn the behaviour and statements of Sulejman Ugljanin. Especially as Mr Martinovic explained it well, these were elections for the national councils of national minorities, but I must also mention that some parties that are parliamentary, opposition parties and how they got involved in these elections. I still, believe me, can't find that buckle, can't find the logic that some party operating at a national level, which is parliamentary, based in Belgrade, is involved in the election process for the National Council of National Minorities and that for the elections for the Bosniak National Council. Then I ask the question -- why isn't it involved in elections for the National Council of Roma, Slovakia, Romania? Logically, the question arises why exactly the Bosniak? And here we come to these main answers, therefore, to the main motive that this is politically instructed, that there is and how huge an interest. I'm not going in there for what's of interest. Please, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, this morning we had an opportunity to hear that someone here in the MP group counted us down, counted our blood cells and told us – so of you 10 is Bosnjak. I ask you, this is the High House of the National Assembly, we are all the same here, all of us here should act stately in order to strengthen our Serbia, our country, to work primarily in the interests of our citizens, not to count each other. I respect all those who are members of the SNS, whoever, Hungarians, Slovaks, Russians, and also from the SRS, but I will not allow anyone in the 21st century in 2018 to comment on how we have one Bosniak, tomorrow they will say what kind of Serbs you are, because our rest belongs to the majority people. Why are we doing this in the 21st century? Milan Stojadinovic turned to the grave for this and all those greats who built our country built these foundations on which we today have this parliamentary democracy and Parliament. And King Alexander and Milan Stojadinovic and all those who fought and gave their lives for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48632	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48633	Thank you. Supporting the amendment of a respected counterpart, Martinovic, unlike other MPs, I call on the president to stay awake. The vigilance because of the hate speech and that hate speech towards the state that has provided the right to have Suleiman Ugljanin choose and be chosen. The state of Serbia, which has provided Bosniaks with the right to choose in democratic elections those they consider to have the highest capacity, when it comes to their right to vote. If the hate speech directed towards the state that provided it all, which guarantees it by the Constitution, we consider it benign, then we are in one great danger, because that hate speech can literally be like a cancer in a metastasy, and when it metastasizes it eats tissue, it kills. That way something that cannot be allowed to be eaten has just begun, which is the order of the Serbian state. It's something that in no case should go away without what I pointed out in the previous speech, which is without an adequate response from the institutions that have to answer. Sulejman Ugljanin uses not only daily political opportunities to score certain points, he realizes what needs to be particularly careful, accomplishes what someone else has drawn for him or has insinuated. I ask literally everyone in the state of Serbia not to accept something like this so easily and that we have absolutely zero tolerance according to what Suleiman Ugljanin did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48634	Thank you. I'm taking a 10-minute break, so we can try to get back to the amendments, or we'll finish today's session. [[after breaks]] The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, having the experience we had in 2014, it was necessary to regulate the area and increase the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their property. However, I was really quite surprised by some of my fellow MPs, who are from the former regime and some of their discussions. I'm sorry they're not here, some of these colleagues have never participated in executive power, but I think everyone chooses their own society and is in the society of those who suit him most and who are most alike. There have been various lies here about members of the Serb list, but one newspaper in this law is that everything will not be entrusted and handed over to local authorities when it comes to natural disasters and emergency situations. They'll have much more jurisdiction in the Republic than they've had so far, and I guess that's because of the experience we've had with the town of Whisper. You know, I will never be able to understand the logic of the people who left their fellow citizens and their property at the mercy and mercilessness of the verse and the floods to blame then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic for any political point to harm the political reputation of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its ministers. Such people who play, not only with the property of their citizens, but also with the lives of their citizens, do not deserve to lead any single local self-government. Imagine, they're from that town, they're born in that city, they live in that city, and they're ready to do some kind of political damage, to question the lives of their fellow citizens. Well, that's morbid. Imagine their question, then, and their thinking about the Republic of Serbia. Imagine, then, what their thinking of our southern province of KIM is like. And then they come to me from the former regime to talk about how some other thieves are. Just one more example. Here, they had a doctrine that we didn't need an army, that no one would attack us anymore, so they destroyed everything alive, sold out, sold out. But let's go back to that year 2014. The army has always been one symbol that defends citizens, not only from enemies, but also from natural disasters and disasters. The then Serbian Army couldn't help the citizens, because they even sold boats. Then they tell me how they love Serbia, not us. That's the kind of situation we've been brought into. And, although my colleague didn't participate in all this, from the New Sad, from the former regime, I'm going back to the beginning of the discussion, everyone chooses their society, and I guess she chooses it with those she feels best with.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48637	Dr Desanka Repac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48638	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, representatives of the government, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment with a special view to reducing the risk of the migrant crisis. This law regulates the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations. The act of law is on the prevention, strengthening individuals, communities to respond to disasters and rescue, protecting people, material and cultural goods. The law regulates citizens' rights, legal obligations, local self-government, autonomous province and the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia and the EU faced an unrecorded rush of migrants and refugees during 2015 and 2016. More than a million people have arrived in the EU, most have fled war and terror from African and Asian countries. It was a humanitarian migrant disaster. It was a problem that brought life to life on a daily basis, mostly young people and children. That was a burning question, because the number of migrant children without parents and escorts grew. These were the paths of the desperate. Thousands of people died at sea trying to make a domestic EU. In the 1990s, Serbia learned what it means to be a refugee. That is why we are ready to open the borders when the migration crisis has started and we have joined the EU to solve the problem. So in Subotica, the city from which I come, on behalf of Serbia, which justified all possible expectations, showed a human face to people who fled their hometowns because of war conflicts in those areas. Subotica has taken this problem seriously and responsibly. This, what Serbia has done for migrants, has put it first in the countries that have dealt with the issue most responsibly. Subotic local self-government, headed by Mr. Bogdan Laban, highly disputed lately. It formed, alongside the Migration Council and the working group on the territory of the city, to monitor migrants in the territory of the city. Local self-government with the government of the Republic of Serbia prevented a humanitarian disaster and helped maintain security with the MUP. Along with NGOs and the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Saturday local self-government opens a reception centre, which is sponsored by the Refugees' Commissioner. Subotica has something to brag about when it comes to the migrant crisis, because she treated all human norms, where everyone was good hosts and people at the service who were willing to help. Migrant is a human reality that needs to be managed in quality, not seen as a problem to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48639	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Radovan Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48640	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, Mrs Kuburovic, with the goal of further defining the subject of the law we are discussing, I have submitted an amendment that reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the prevention of the effects of drought." The disaster risk reduction and emergency management system set up by the bill is of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia and is part of national security. It is therefore of particular importance to adopt this law, which put first the principles, plans, measures and activities to contribute to the successful prevention of disasters and to raise the level of preparedness to react in the event of the occurrence of natural or other disasters. The key feature of the bill represents putting prevention in the first place, in order to reduce disaster risks and create all conditions for more effective implementation of protection against natural disasters, which will, most importantly, contribute to increasing the level of security of citizens and their property. An elemental accident is a sudden major accident that interrupts normal life, causes victims, damage to a larger volume of property or its total loss. One of the basic disasters is drought, when the water supply in the soil is reduced due to a lack of rainfall. Droughts can cause serious disturbances in agriculture, as a basis in food production, which can ultimately cause hunger and loss in the human and animal populations. Droughts are becoming more and more common around the world, almost impossible to predict, but it can be seen, even in a timely manner, by following and analysing numerous parameters. With the government's prevention and development projects, Serbia will very quickly eliminate the risk of possible consequences of this elemental disaster that no one has thought about until 2012. In Serbia, there were barely 2% of farmland under irrigation systems until that year 2012, and the SNS target is to be at least 10%. From here today in Vojvodina, the construction of 11 capital regional systems is under way, in central Serbia, three hydrosystems, with the aim of removing all risks and enabling an effective fight against drought. In addition, there are no local self-governments in Vojvodina that have not accessed the organisation of a two-purpose sewerage network on agricultural land and the construction of project-technical documentation for raising and building new bay systems. A responsible approach by this government and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, to address the problem of drought and to address the risk reduction of this elemental disaster, demonstrates a high degree of responsibility towards its citizens, with the aim of ensuring their safety above all, but also to achieve development objectives in the area of agriculture and thus contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48641	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) LJibuška Lakatoš submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Miodrag Lint submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48642	Thank you. I will talk about my amendment in the context of a tragedy, that is, a disaster experienced by the Serbian people in the 1990s in the former Yugoslavia. It is widely known that more than half a million Serbs were expelled from today's Croatian territory in the 1990s. Half a million Serbs were also expelled from the field of today's Federation of BiH, and more than 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija. So, the balance of wars that were waged in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s is a tragic Serbian people, over 1.2 million Serbs experienced tragedy and were forced to leave their apartments and houses. What were the causes of these wars? Today, we have on the scene in the part of certain Western centres of power, the part of Western public opinion, as well as in Zagreb, Sarajevo and Pristina, the story of a completely false, pointless and absurd thesis that the main culprit for the wars of the 1990s was Serbia and the Serbian people, and that Albanians, Croats, Bosniaks were the victims of the Liberation Wars. The historical facts show the exact opposite. The main culprit for the war in today's Croatia was the pro-prostitute policy of Franjo Tudjman, whose goal was to create a Croatian state without or with as few Serbs as possible. Croatia waged a conquerive and aggressive war against the Serb people in Croatia, according to JNA and Yugoslavia. Today we have as a mantra story in Croatia as to how it is so-called. The Homeland War was a liberating war, even defined by the Declaration of Homeland War 2000 and the Law on the Rights of Defence, which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament at the end of last year. We must constantly react to this false and illegal thesis of Croatian politicians and the Croatian public that Serbia, i.e. Yugoslavia, JNA and the Krajina Serbs have committed aggression against Croatia. How is it possible that Serbs in Croatia have committed aggression on themselves when they live there for centuries? How could I have committed an aggression on my municipality of Vriginmost? How is it possible that counterpart Atlagic has committed aggression to northern Dalmatia? How is it possible that hundreds of thousands of Serbs, and about 700,000 lived together with the Yugoslavs, have committed aggression on themselves? The thesis was denied by a very important document from May 1993 that formed the United Nations. According to this document, by May 1993, therefore, the first two years of war, from an area controlled by Croatian forces and Croatian authorities, 251,000 Serbs were expelled and more than 250,000 more were expelled in the criminal actions "Storm", "Blash" and "Medac pocket". Another problem we have in Croatia is that for 28 years since Franjo Tuđman's arrival in power, we have a state-run project to rehabilitate the constitution and Ustasha ideology that has entered its final phase. So we have a scandalous decision, so-called. The Council, i.e. the Council for Facing the Past in Zagreb, that the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready", under which hundreds of thousands of Serbs were killed in the infamous NDH, in the opinion of the council, can sometimes be used, on special occasions. Is it possible that some advice for facing the past in Berlin would conclude that "Zig Heil", a Nazi greeting, can be used on certain occasions. Of course that's not possible. The main problem is that in Croatia, the process of denaciation has not been carried out, and therefore we now have the tragic fact that the constitution is the foundation of today's Croatia, that we have a systematic violation of the human rights of the Serbs in Croatia, that we have hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs who cannot achieve their basic property, acquired, status and other rights, which cannot restore tens of tens of thousands of unpaid pensions, over 10,000 Serbian houses and business facilities were brought down in classical terrorist actions during 1991, 1992, 1993, by Croatian cities. In Serbia, often, I will give just one example, the tragedy of Serbs from Western Slavonia comes down to "Blash", when around 20,000 Serbs were expelled. Most, more than 70,000 Serbs from the Western Slavonia area were expelled during the summer and autumn 1991 in criminal actions "Otkos", "Orcan" and "Papuk". A similar situation is unfortunately in the Federation of BiH. I said, and over half a million Serbs were expelled from that area. The Serbs are second-class citizens there. According to the latest 2013 census, of nearly 600,000 Serbs, living before the war in the Federation of BiH, only 56,000 now live. Today, under the circumstances, in the Serbian Assembly as president of the Committee on the Diaspora of Serbs in the region, I received the Prime Minister of Bihakko-Petrova Sergia and representatives of 12 traditional associations operating in Serbia, whose representatives and members are of gender and origin from the Federation of BiH. Today we've found quite a bit of a dreary fact. We have a problem with continuing to rebuild the Federation of BiH, rebuilding the ruined houses very slowly, not restoring the municipal structure, having systematic discrimination against Serbs who cannot be employed at the level of 10 cantons of the Federation of BiH in education, in health care, in the police, in public enterprises. As a consequence, we have an eviction, an increasing emigration of Serb returnees who returned in the early 2000s, their homes and their hearths. We have a problem with learning Serbian. Namely, we have four Serb municipalities where Serbs are the majority. It's Glamoch, Grahovo, Drvar and Bosnian Petrovac. For example, in Drvar, a national group of teaching subjects from Republika Srpska are taught only for three subjects - history, geography, literature, but all other subjects are taught in Croatian and in the Croatian curricula. There's a completely tragic situation in Glamoch. The Serbs are there most of them. There is absolutely no national group of cases, no possibility that Serbian children in the Glamoc municipality are learning in Serbian, even if a national group of subjects. So the problems are very numerous and what is important is an even more active role for our country. A particular problem I want to point out, since it is here and the minister of justice, Mrs. Nela Kuburovic, is a matter of war crimes. We have an ethnically motivated judiciary in Sarajevo, we have an ethnically motivated judiciary in Zagreb, we have mounted judicial proceedings, we have arrests of Serbs based on warrants, we have a problem that every member of the Republika Srpska Army and Republika Srpska police is afraid to travel outside Serbia, because it threatens that Croatia has launched some kind of investigation and will be arrested, it will be closed, and then prove its innocence in prison. I appeal to Mrs Kuburovic, to make a meeting, to see that a war crimes office is being built at the Justice Ministry, to hire several top lawyers from that area, that our people who have been at war and in BiH, in the territory of Croatia, can come to seek advice and feel that the state of Serbia is behind them. The vast majority of Serbs fought with honor in the Republika Srpska Army, the Republika Srpska Army and want to clear their name, do not want to carry the war criminals' Stigm. That is why it is important for the state of Serbia to help insist in talks with Zagreb and Sarajevo, to allow these people a fair trial, that Zagreb and Sarajevo, who have evidence that Linta Miodrag, or anyone else, committed any war crime, against war prisoners or against the whole population, to deliver the case to Belgrade, to be tried here in the Higher Court in Belgrade, to monitor this process, or the trial, to do so in BiH, but to prevent our people from being arrested and then to dare in the mounted processes in Sarajevo and Zagreb. On the other hand, I think it is important for our war crimes prosecutor's office to launch far more actively investigations into numerous crimes against Serb civilians and prisoners of war that took place in the 1990s in the territory of Croatia, in the field of BiH and KIM. I also had several meetings with former war crimes prosecutor Vukcevic and current prosecutor Mrs Stanojkovic. I think we must be far more active here, that we must strengthen the service of war crimes and that we must work actively to prosecute war crimes against Serbs. Otherwise, otherwise, it threatens that Croatia, both BiH and, officially, Sarajevo, a series of false verdicts, a series of indictments, new investigations, will verify the false and pointless thesis that I have already mentioned, and it reads - neither in Sarajevo nor in Zagreb, nor in Bosniaks, we Croats were victims, we were liberators and you are Serbs and Serbia's complete and Serbian people, you are aggressors and criminals. We can't let that happen. So we must advocate the policy of the same standards, whoever committed the crime was a Serb, a Croat, a Bosniak, an Albanian, he must answer. Now that's not the case. Now it's part of the policy of double standards. So, once again, we appeal to Mrs. Kuburovic to make one meeting with you, let's see if we can help our people. I was just called today by our countrymen regarding General Borislav Djukic, who was an honorary officer in the Republika Srpska Krajina Army, who has been in prison for many years in Bilica in Split. Two years ago, I personally visited General Djukic and Captain Dragan and prayed and urged the state of Serbia to help defend them. General Djukic's family is on the verge of survival, they have exhausted all financial resources. The process continues and it would be very important, Mrs Kuburovic, to see that funds are provided and to help the family of General Djukic, an officer of honor, defend himself in a court procedure, in a mounted court procedure that continues in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48643	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48644	I thank the president. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with co-workers, given the experience of Serbia in previous years as regards natural disasters, especially floods and earthquakes and fires, it is very important that this law is on the agenda and it is very important that the Emergency Risk Reduction and Management Act finds a provision that puts emergency risk reduction and emergency management as a national state priority but as well as local priorities. It is also important to emphasize what the law says that protecting human lives is the most important in relation to all other protective activities. When talking about reducing risk and managing emergency situations, it should be stressed that the need for recovery is, that is, the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, and thus the removal of droughts as my amendment reads. When it comes to droughts, the consequences are often fires. Unfortunately, in the region where I live fires are more often the consequences of people's neglect than the consequences, so in the first twenty years, twenty days of October, there were 170 fires, and at the same time there were nine fires, and there were no units of volunteer firefighters the consequences of the damage that already existed would have been much more difficult. That is why I am pleased to announce that professional firefighters will step up with six members in the Kickinda I come from. I am also pleased that it has been announced that vehicles will be purchased throughout Serbia, cargo vehicles that are missing from all voluntary fire units, and that existing vehicles of the MUP, which are no longer needed, will be deployed to voluntary fire companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48645	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48646	I thank the president. Dear ministers with associates, MPs and citizens of Serbia, we have often been able to hear the warning of meteorologists lately -- in these parts Serbia will be blowing storms and hurricane winds today. It is precisely the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management that puts first measures and activities to contribute to a more successful prevention than disaster prevention where storms and storms are found. Strengthening the resilience of individuals and communities to the consequences of natural and other disasters and raising the level of preparedness to react in the event of a natural and other accident. A special emphasis is placed on establishing a partnership between the public and private sectors and the involvement of scientific organisations, associations and civil society organisations. We're witnessing tragic deaths in June of last year's woman behind the wheel of her car, when a heavy storm in the vicinity of Novi Sad dropped a cannon on her car. In 2014, in May, an unconventional storm in Serbia occurred when a tornado at Black Treva destroyed 20 houses and auxiliary facilities and ripped out trees of a length of three metres from the roots. In November 2010, a storm was recorded in the Kruševec area, where strikes were orcanic strengths, over 150km per hour. In the hope that as little as possible, we will listen and feel the consequences of the elementary and other disasters, in the day to vote, the bill will have my full support, as well as the Serbian Progressive Party's MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48647	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48648	Dear Chairman, ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted this amendment in order to highlight the importance of prevention of the consequences of the city. Unfortunately, in order to carry out preventive actions in the right way, we must do so on the basis of an example from practice. We have an example from 2014, where we have been plagued by catastrophic floods that were in proportion that we haven't had in the last 120 years. In his opening statement, Minister Stefanovic said that the key in prevention and presented the data, as I remember well, that for one dinar invested in prevention we can free some eight dinars that would be invested in the resolution of the consequences. The prevention starts with local self-government. We need to draw up strategic and planning documents, which will determine how best to operate in such situations. I'd like to focus on protecting myself from the city right now. The big problem is the limiting factor that we have in the border areas, which is that we cannot act preventively in the territory of the countries that are in the environment, but only in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which means that when the clouds already arrive in our country, it is sometimes too late to act preventively. However, I do believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our resources dealing with this problem are strongly addressed to all the problems we currently have and act preventively in some of the ways that they can, starting with the subsidisation of crop insurance, the subsidisation of the anti-urban network, etc. I hope that this spectrum of preventive measures will really spread, because our farmers often suffer great damage. Also, in the process of modernising the equipment that we have, where we are going completely to modern, automatic preventive technology, which we influence with anti-urban missiles, I really think it will contribute significantly to prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48649	Thank you. The first amendment was submitted by Dalibor Radcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48650	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. A bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, where I tried to point out the importance of countering the dangers of disasters that can affect us, and in accordance with the people's wetlands – better prevented than treated. The reduction of the risk of natural disasters, as well as raising awareness of preparation and prevention, is a process that must have continuity. Natural disasters cannot be completely prevented, but it is possible to act preventively, as well as to affect the behaviour of a man who, by his actions and how it affects climate change. Serbia has experience with natural disasters. It has been shown that the reactions are, as a rule, good, but we need to have one of these legal solutions, so that we can react even more readily. The leadership of the state, headed by President Vukic and ministers, and how it works to prevent the consequences of natural disasters from being prevented. You can see that from the Alexine case. We were all witnessing the problems that Alexine had with the floods. Every year at least once, not rarely and more times a year, Alexinac was the main news, because of flooded houses and hurricanes. Back in 50 years, there was talk of a defensive embankment on the left coast of South Morava. It was spoken in the right sense of that word, but nothing was done. When the water came out of the riverbed, politicians came, promised both possible and impossible and left, and waited for the solution to this problem to fall from the sky. It was necessary for the Serbian Progressive Party to come to power, to do something. And it's done. A rise of 13.7km has been built, the value of the investment is close to 5m euros. This is a good example of how to deal with prevention and therefore the Serbian Progressive Party and has this confidence of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48651	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48652	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, honourable MPs, I fully support the proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, and I will vote for its adoption. The bill is high-quality and comprehensive in standardising preventive measures and activities in order to reduce the risk of disasters, effective response in the event of the occurrence of elementary and other disasters and the effective removal of their consequences. The emphasis is given on the more successful prevention and strengthening the resilience of local communities and society in general and on raising the level of preparedness to react in all foreseeable situations. It is also a very important emphasis on international co-operation, both in the area of prevention and in the area of assistance. The adoption of the law will create the necessary conditions for more effective protection, which will increase the level of security of citizens. Teached by experience from a previous period, and especially from the catastrophic May floods in 2014 that affected the territory of 119 municipalities of central and western Serbia and where lives, health and property were threatened by more than a million and 600,000 people, then we need to look at all aspects of our reaction and behavior in these situations. They say the flood throws everything to the surface and the best, but the worst. This flood in 2014 showed how we can unite around the target, but how almost as a rule there is someone who is against, who is holding back and who is using such situations to achieve their personal goals, regardless of the consequences. Let us remember once again in 2014, remember Šapac, Obrenovac, Krupanj and many other flood sites. The flood has brought numerous victims and enormous damage, but it has brought us more, solidarity and courage of young people across Serbia who have shown that they can and want to gather and provide selfless help to those at risk as volunteers. The flood also brought us many new rescue heroes who risked their lives to help those in danger. Let us remember the wise and key moves of the most responsible in this country, starting with then Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, many ministers in the government, head of the military, police, public enterprises, and among citizens. Let us remember that, for example, the key move in the defence of Šapca was that the personal chief of staff of General Dikovic's office was sent to organize the defence of the Sapca with the officers, and it was a strategically important move, which at that time was disorganised, and threatened to bring the Shabac down. Thanks to that wise decision and that move, the Sabbath didn't fall. The then-Governmental Government, led by Vukic, faced with an unprecedented verse, as it knew and could. Although they had no formal authority, they risked and took responsibility to command the moment when the responsible presidents of the municipalities were powerless or literally in chaos. This, as it turns out, was necessary to do, but it was also necessary to have wisdom and courage for such moves, because responsibility takes over the best when it's the hardest. Even then, it was clear that as a society, we were not quite ready for such disasters, that the system we inherited had deficiencies and allowed some mayors or presidents of municipalities to obstruct the defence against floods because of the powers they had. In a situation where we didn't have civil protection or a large army just thanks to the government's strength and sound and determined leadership of Alexander Vukic himself in this disaster, we have avoided much more catastrophic consequences. The whole society followed the events of a catastrophic flood with a chill. The media focus included cities such as Obrenovac, which was completely devastated or others where energy plants are located or are located closer to Belgrade. Unfortunately, many media outlets were only serious when the devil took the joke, but some of them were more distant and less important, under quotes, places were media uncovered and were long on the sidelines of events. Alternative media on the internet, such as social networks, blogs and media status sites, played their part. On the one hand, a large positive contribution was shown in the location of people who were in danger and who were to be saved. A huge contribution was made by radio amateurs, who together with Twitter players, who did great, priceless work and saved many lives. On the other hand, a smaller group of people used the Internet and social networks to spread confusion, cause tension, spreading unverified information and misinformation. Consciously or unconsciously, they were able to do invaluable damages that, in some cases, fear, bitterness, and panic spread to a greater extent. The most brutal example of such dangerous behavior was the spread of unverified information about hundreds or thousands of deaths in Obrenovac. Such news spread lightningly because of its essence. They were created and distributed by Internet sites that had media status or were viewed as such by Internet users. Unfortunately, they were unaware of the dangers and consequences they produced. All such news had to be checked. A huge number of teams were sent to the field to check it out, huge resources were spent, and the news proved incorrect. For the sake of personal promotion, as a alleged fighter for truth or for campaigning against the government for political reasons, someone spread sensational news and thus worked against his people and his country, harassing the public. For all of this, I find it a good time to pass a law like this, and we invite you to adopt it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48653	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Here you go, colleague Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48654	The Honorable chairman, the aim of amending the Law on the reduction of the risk of disaster and emergency management is to introduce more effective protection of lives of people and property, as well as the Ministry of Investment in Equipment, Uniforms and Vehicles made it all possible for firefighters to get as far away as possible and in a safer way into solving different emergency situations, to be effective and to ensure that citizens know that they have a capable, strong force in the fire-saving units of the MUP of the Republic of Serbia. These pictures talk a lot about this, because after more than 20 years, we have 10 MiG planes, new uniforms and a rolling stock, and also, the recovery of the defence industry, the reception of new police officers and firefighters, we have the purchase of new vehicles and uniforms, the introduction of subjects of child safety, the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, the Law on the Return of Property to Holocaust Victims, and since 1 March 2018, a new set of anti-corruption measures and regulations is in place. All this is done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by the Resort Ministry. Police results in the last four years are incomparably better than in the previous period, and police have taken 13.7 tonnes of narcotics, or 43% more, than in the same period before. In addition to increased drug confiscation, since Minister Stefanovic led the MUP, the number of crimes committed in our country by almost 9% was lower compared to the same period earlier, 17% of fewer crimes against citizens' property, as well as 19% less murders. Exceptional results have been achieved in co-operation with the police of Spain, the Czech Republic, Germany, Austria, many members and leaders of organised crime groups operating internationally have been arrested and processed. It has also been done a lot to combat crime and corruption in police ranks, and over the past four years, 768 police officers have been processed, 110 of them executives in the MUP. I also wanted to talk about robbery, corruption, threats of rape, hanging and beating women, Gilas' millions, Jeremic's machines for washing millions of euros that were paid, disappeared from their accounts. I wanted to talk about all of this, but who, when told the truth, escapes the hall, and that's all they can offer to the citizens against reforms, job creation, the rise of the economy and the economy from the ashes and the reputation of the world and the daily efforts that President Vukic makes to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48655	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48656	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Stefanovic, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, when we talk about a bill on reducing the risk of disasters and management in emergency situations, as an example of good practice, the city of Nis will mention. The Niša Emergency Station is educated in accordance with the Emergency Law and Article 8. Regulation on the composition and mode of operation of staff for emergency situations where a staff obligation is established to adopt an annual work plan for the current year under its jurisdiction and to implement its implementation. The works carried out in accordance with the operational plan of the flood defence on river waterways of the second row on the territory of the town of Nis for 2016 are the following: Gabrovac river, upriver from the cafe "Better Life", in the length of 340 meters; Malčan river near Malčanska loop in the length of 100 meters in the bridge zone; Matejevačka river, Donja Vrežina, from the master road Nis-Svrlig to the highway, in the length of 308 metres; Mramorski then, from the bridge on the master road Nis-Prokuplje, in the length of 1,500 meters; Velepoljska river in Gornji Trnava from the bridge at the entrance to the village, upstream, in the length of 1,320 meters. In 2017 the works were carried out on the Jelašnja river through the villages of Gornja Studena, Donja Studena and Jelasnica in the length of 2,200 metres, and in terms of cleaning the riverbed with coastal security, and Velepoljska river through the village of Paligrace in the length of 800 meters, also, cleaning the riverbed with coastal security. In addition to the planned tasks foreseen by the work plan in 2017, other actions and tasks under the mandate of the Republic and the District Emergency Staff, as well as other competent authorities, have been carried out. In accordance with the work plan and current needs, the Niš City Emergency Station held three regular and 11 extraordinary town headquarters sessions in 2017 to discuss the implementation of preventive and operational measures and other tasks under its jurisdiction. Co-operation with the Nish Emergency Department and the Nish Police Administration is daily and satisfactory. It is particularly reflected in joint activities to locate, mark, store, transport and destroy unexploded means of killing in the territory of the city of Nis. Good and quality co-operation has been achieved with the means of public information. In some cases, it is preventive in part to warn and inform the population of the resulting elemental disasters. The Nisa City's Emergency Station is carrying out tasks within its responsibilities very successfully. Also, I would like to mention the protocol on the co-operation of cities and municipalities in the south of Morava, as my distinguished colleague, prim, spoke of. Dr Branimir Rančić, namely, will soon sign a protocol on the co-operation of cities and municipalities in the south of Morava and that: City of Nis, City of Prokuplje, City of Vranje, City of Leskovac, City of Pirot, municipalities: Alexandrovac, Aleksinac, Blace, Brus, Bujanovac, Doljevac, Kursumlija, Sokobanja, Žitoraj, Vladičin Han, Trgovište and Merošin. In line with local self-government's competences in the area of emergency situations, particularly early announcements of preventive measures and activities, reactions and removal of consequences, and taking into account the Sendaan framework for reducing the risk of disasters of the 2015-2020 year at the held conference in the Japanese city of Sendaj, and the national programme of risk management of elementary disasters, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 19 December 2014, as well as the Law on Emergency and Law on Local Self-Government, all of which comes from the need to intensify cooperation between cities and municipalities in southern Morava, and in order to reduce common risks and rapid recovery following elemental accidents and other accidents, so that we expect that the municipalities are soon to enter into the co-operation protocol. In the end, we SNS MPs will support the draft laws on the agenda of the session in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48657	Thank you. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48658	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, fellow MPs, the emergency response system in the previous period has been at great challenges. During 2014, when we were hit by large floods, many people from the police, military sector were hired, but of course volunteers, since 24 municipalities were damaged and the damage was estimated at a billion and 525m euros. But it's not the only natural disaster that affects our country. There are also slightly less intensity, thank God, but they happen and there's a fire. Now it's completely clear to me when I see what's really a lack of developed consciousness in people and why we appeal so much. Unfortunately, my fellow citizens and myself, during October, there was a fire in the vicinity of the village of Belo Blato, and 800 acres of land burned down, and part of the natural reserve of the Imperial Bar took place. In those days, regardless of the strong wind that caused the fire to the country, I must stress that the Belblachans live almost exclusively from the production of the cane and their primary activity has been disrupted and, of course, the habitat of many plant and animal species has been disrupted. Believe me, it was scary in the field. Thanks to the members of the fire departments, as well as the volunteer fire associations, especially farmers who went out on the ground by their mechanisms, they allowed the fire to be extinguished. What's the cause? It's a lack of attention, it's a cause when we think we're in control of the situation, kids get somebody to burn waste material or scrape anyway. A moment of negligence is enough to get this out of hand and to really be inconceivable about the damage that is going on. I ask everyone to abide by the law and to listen to all the appeals that speak about it and indeed, since the laws that are on the agenda have a good basis, I hope and expect absolute application and in order to improve the system of emergency management will, of course, support all proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48659	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48660	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow Members of Parliament, the amendment I have submitted concerns the reduction of the risk of natural disasters. The floods, along with the last of 2014, which were catastrophic, caused major material damage, which in the economy, which in infrastructure facilities, environment, population health, and of course the most affected the loss of human life and animals. From the epidemiological aspect of the dead animals, biological and other wastes pose a potential danger to the occurrence and spread of infectious disease. Dead animals, biological and other wastes are the source of environmental pollution primarily by biological material, including viruses, bacteria, parasites, and others. Organic waste material has great epidemiological significance, it must always be treated as a potential source of zonosis. Zonos are diseases that are common to both humans and animals. Among other things, these are red wind, anthrax, salmonellasis, listeryosis, rabies, and many other diseases. Causes that are precisely in such waste materials can remain vital for a long time, later in different ways they can reach the outside environment. From the outside through direct contact with remains of animal origin, through food pollution, soil, air, intervention of other vectors such as insects, rodents, birds, etc. can be transmitted to healthy animals and humans. In this way, the vicious circle of infectious diseases can be transmitted to humans. All of the above just confirms that animal and other remains resulting from natural disasters, earthquakes, floods, rinks, pose a great danger to human health, and thus imposes the need to remove the remains harmlessly, quickly and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48661	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48662	Thank you, Chairman. On the proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 in the sense of adding Article 3 which reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the resolution of the consequences of the migrant crisis. Serbia thanks to responsible policy by our President Alexander Vukic is one of the few countries in the region that has shown humanity and solidarity towards migrants in the possibly biggest refugee crisis since World War II. The city of Vranje also contributed to the resolution and overcoming of the migrant crisis in which the reception centre opened on 30 May 2017 at the facility of the former Vranje motel. The projected capacity of the centre is 210 persons. The management centre is in charge of the Republic of Serbia's Commissioner for Refugees and Migration. On the first occasion, 135 migrants were housed, mostly families who were in the Presevo reception centre and the Bujanovac reception centre, and later the facilities of the centre were filled according to the decisions and needs of the Commissioner. Currently, the center is close to maximum capacity, i.e. 207 people, mostly from Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan. Besides, he's at the center of 64 kids up to 18 years old with families. Of the children of school age, two primary and one secondary school in Vranj attends 26 pupils and two preschool students. A dozen NGOs, as well as several workers from the Ministry of Labour, were included in the war with migrants, with the exception of officials from the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Home Secretary for yesterday's intervention of his members from Vranj, who allowed the election process at polling station No. 2. When the president of the electoral committee was beaten, they were implemented to the end and I would also ask the minister to assist, in the light of all the circumstances of the case, in accordance with his powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48663	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48664	I thank the chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, on a very high-quality bill, I have referred the amendment precisely to contribute to this good law and to point out again through this amendment that this law is also aimed at the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. Well, and in that earthquake we had in one piece of happiness, because those people who designed, who were doing works on building buildings, let's say after World War II they respected the rules of the profession and they did it right, so we didn't have the huge victims that we could, since the epicenter of the earthquake was right next to the city itself. In addition to all this, we had two human victims, we had over 200 injured and we had enormous material damage. Earthquake intensity was 5.4 degrees Richter, so somewhere around 7 of that Mercali we used to mention. The catastrophic earthquake damaged 16,000 houses, damaged 8,500 apartments, damaged 33 schools, of which five secondary and 28 primary. Unfortunately, a school to this day couldn't be renovated, and it's torn to the ground, it's a school with a long tradition, the Music School in the King. Also, we had major damages at the Studenica Health Center, or the Internist Hospital was significantly damaged, so the recovery only took some two years at this Internist Hospital alone, as well as major damage to the Public Health Institute. Unfortunately, until today's Institute of Public Health has not been put into office, and only with the efforts of the previous and this government have we done much, so that at last it is only the final works, i.e. the equipment of the facility itself. Also, I have to point out here that one part of the city, some 366 apartments, was declared permanently unusable then and, unfortunately for me, the works began only when the SNS took over, or when we were able to implement all the measures that should be done, and in the settlement, or in Dosite Street, the works began during this year, so we hope that within two years these first four buildings will be completed. It was also the moment when the SNS appeared and it first showed its strength and showed that we are the strength to come, that we are a sovereign party, precisely in the case of an earthquake in the King. But I'll talk a lot more about it in the second amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48665	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48666	The law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, which will replace the Emergency Law adopted in 2009, brings the paper. Newspapers are functional about reducing the risk of disasters. Special accentes are placed on the protection of vulnerable groups and gender equality. The law aims to improve the process of co-operation and dialogue between different institutions at national level, by establishing a national platform to reduce the risk of disasters. The key benefits of this law are the addition of an existing system by making poor and dysfunctional solutions simplified, modified or deleted with a view to making standards more variable in practice and criminal provisions more effective. This new law wanted problems to be overcome on the basis of previous experiences, because the quality of the assessments and plans of protection and rescue was very bad, because the work on design was based on individuals who naturally do not have the necessary capacity to produce very complex documents. Also, regulations in the area of risk reduction and management in emergency situations, methodology for drawing up plans and evaluations will be amended and complemented in accordance with the needs learned lessons from the past, climate and other changes, changing or harmonising our rules with EU rules. In my next amendments, I will focus on the Home Office's successes and on all the good that has already been done, and in time we will prepare for the consequences of disasters to be as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48667	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48668	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, my amendment refers to Article 1 and an amendment to the stance that says this law practically leads to Serbia's sustainable development and development in general, but with a special reference to floods. Because we are all witnesses that of all the elements of the disaster, on all sides of the country, we are faced with floods. When you look at it, if we start only from 2014 to see what results are practically both countries and elementary disasters, then you will see that this is an integral part of the budget, and it also has a strong impact on our economic growth. If there were no such floods that included two-thirds of Serbia's municipalities, and according to UN studies, included 20% of Serbia's total population, and when there was practically one cost of 1.7 billion euros and a total GDP contribution of 4%, when we talk about costs for the recovery of all those disasters caused by the May 2014 floods, we would probably go more dizzy today when we talk about one economic growth. Because the damages that were produced then are not only direct, which were related to the recovery, but also represent those indirect ones that specifically refer to people who lost their material assets, when I talk about businesses and their employees, such as the temporary loss of jobs and employment had 51,800 persons. So it's a huge number of people who really lost their right to work because of these floods, and it's estimated that 125,000 citizens fell below the poverty line that year. So, taught by such experiences, the governments of the Republic of Serbia, which were also in 2014, when Mr. Vucic was prime minister, and now that we have Prime Minister Ms. Ana Brnabic, indeed every year they invested in this prevention and eventually, in 2016 the UNDP did one study, which said that investment, or in prevention, is not only investment in recovery, but investment in something that represents investment, and that investment, when you look through the figures itself, shows multiple. When the UN did the study financially, it was true that not two or three to five dinars of practically investments were invested, keeping what is called the recovery of the ground, and thus having an increase in virtually flood defence. So, when we talk about floods, they took place in certain parts of the country and in 2016, let's say we had 11 municipalities if you remember, an emergency because of floods such as Arile, Luciani, Ovcar Banja, then Kraljevo, LJig, Čačak and Raška. This showed that the need was really preventative. Now, those municipalities that seemed preventive, practically no harm. For example, in 2013, the very municipality of Novi Pazar invested over 420 million dinars from their budget and budgets of the Republic of Serbia, and indeed that damage that was to be caused by floods was not felt anywhere because it was adequately defended. In May 2016, West Morava, as well as Novi Sad, were also covered by floods and, of course, all local budgets then feel the financial pressure to respond, of course, to the people and headquarters of the local, but also to the Republic, when needed by the military, to really defend those parts of Serbia. What is like the conclusion of all this is that we learned lessons from 2014, that as a responsible government we also provided funds in the 2016, 2017 and 2018 budget. So in 2018, Mrs Ana Brnabić said that there were two billion dinars provided, if it is really necessary to respond effectively to the May floods and we were ready. We have shown that certain investments in the prevention of more than 500m euros until then have really been put into place as a challenge against the floods in May this year, and this has proved essentially that this law that has now come before us is a fundamental set of all the experiences Serbia has had, but responsible not only for foreign and internal policy, but also for monetary policy, because we have received six new donors who are ready to help us whenever it is necessary, especially when it comes to the recovery of the territory from the floods. In fact, these funds are financial mechanisms with the help that we can respond in an adequate way, and these funds actually show how much Serbia is understood as one serious state, especially when consolidation of public finances is at stake, when it comes to economic reforms that now produce results and as a stable state in this financial sense, indeed, these financial organisations are always ready to co-operate with us. Most of these organisations co-operate with the World Bank, with which we have, of course, direct contacts and direct projects, then there are pre-accession European Union funds and ultimately the Swiss state institutions' funds in charge of economic relations. Therefore, I think that Serbia has shown this law to lead one responsible financial, budgetary and economic policy that is very much needed in order to survive in this area and ultimately provide all the facilities that will contribute to protecting from floods and reducing any costs in the future, but to preserve not only people and their property, but also special state institutions of public interest that are important for all citizens of Serbia, such as Elektroprivreda, such as Telecom, such as Serbia's Power Networks, the oil industry of Serbia, means all strategic facilities important for Serbia's future. In the voting day, of course, we will support these laws and these proposals, and I hope that in one of the following amendments we will indeed find adequate solutions that will further improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-05-0.u48669	Thank you. We'd be done with this discussion for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
