ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34061	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 72 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Marija Obradović, Aleksandra Tomic, Dubravka Filipovski, Elvira Kovac, Zarko Obradović, Aleksandar Stevanović, Aleksandar Seselj, Muamer Bačevac, Milena Bicanin and Vladimir Marinković. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 13 of the agenda. Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34062	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the government, ministers with associates, we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Also an annual plan to use the military for 2018 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in concrete multinational operations in 2018. I believe that there is broad consensus among the MPs in this Assembly regarding amendments and additions to the laws described in Article 1 which says that the participation of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations is in line with the national, security, defence and foreign policy interests of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, it said in Article 2 that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the government, is making a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations, which I believe is also the broadest possible agreement of the MPs in this house. I hope, Minister, that the Centre for Multi-national Operations of the Serbian Army has in mind Resolution 1325 of the UN Security Council "The Women, Peace and Security, as well as the Government's Conclusion of May last year, when the National Action Plan was adopted for the period from 2017 to 2020. I hope you have this in mind, both in terms of the preparation of members of multinational operations and in terms of the realization of the operation itself. As regards the scope of the engagement of members in multinational operations, the annual plan for 2018, up to 700 members of the Serbian Army and 11 members of the interior ministry are foreseen in practically 18 multinational operations, plus in EU civilian missions and humanitarian operations, as planned. I believe that their importance for the interests of the Republic of Serbia greatly exceeds the importance of the costs foreseen for multinational operations, which is about 2.3 billion dinars. On this occasion, due to the time I am in possession, I will only focus on one of the several multinational operations in which the members of our military are first involved, which is the UNDOF operation in the Middle East, and I would appeal to the seriousness and quality in the preparation of military members to refer to the position of military observer, or UN liaison officer, in view of the security and war situation in Syria, the instability at the Golan Highorna and in southern Lebanon, as well as the fact that there is an exceptional political and security complexity and tension, as well as the long-standing conflict between Syria and Lebanon with Israel and the danger of UN members by radical terrorist groups. I believe that the joint military exercises, which the Serbian Army has had with numerous foreign armies, improve its interoperability, in fact strengthen its compatibility and develop the ability to participate even more effectively in multinational operations, which in itself again supports both national and defence and foreign-political interests of the Republic of Serbia and just as I think it is useful to increase the number of military exercises with various foreign armies, especially those of Serbia's most experienced, most experienced and most prominent, and I also think that the specificity resulting from Serbia's military neutrality, opens up an additional possibility for more active, largely, if you want and more thoughtful participation of Serbia's military in multinational operations, if they mean, understand, the contribution to achieving the interests and objectives of the Republic of Serbia. As I see nothing controversial in the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders, I will support this proposal, as well as my colleagues from the SDPS parliamentary group and not only that, but also the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in concrete multinational operations, as well as an annual use plan for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34063	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34064	Dear Presidents, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to begin by saying that the SPS parliamentary group will support a set of proposed laws in the voting day, as well as bilateral agreements. As part of today's debate on the defence law package, I will refer to the participation of our forces in international peace operations, the proposal for a law regulating our country's participation in these operations, the draft law amending and supplementing the laws on military, labour and material obligations and certain bilateral agreements. Serbia has a long tradition of participation in peacekeeping missions. Our blue helmets have been participating in UN international peacekeeping missions for more than half a century, and as a European country we also participate in EU missions. UN peacekeeping missions are approved by the Security Council, which gives them full legitimacy and is guaranteed the neutrality of these missions. Neutrality is the basis for their success in establishing peace and conflict resolution in crisis areas around the world. Also, by engaging our forces in multinational EU operations and in the framework of a common security and defence policy, the Republic of Serbia is integrating into an important area of EU activity while at the same time strengthening its security capacity on its way to EU membership. The participation of military members in multinational operations is an important element of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which certainly contributes to the treatment of Serbia as an equal partner in relations with the UN Member States and the EU. Today in the world, unfortunately, there are many crisis areas whose conflicts cannot be resolved by the state itself, so that multinational operations represent a central form of international response to numerous conflict situations in countries or between states. Serbia is paying attention to participation in multinational operations as a form of international military co-operation. In particular, it should highlight the outstanding staff potential of members of our military forces participating in international missions, whose education and recruitment are being cared for by the Centre for Peace Operations of the Serbian Army General Staff. Today, in Serbia, there are part of its territory, which is Kosovo and Metohija, the UN-KFOR and EU-EU peacekeeping missions, which aim to provide conditions for the peaceful and normal lives of all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as stability in the entire Western Balkans region. We must believe that the international mission in Kosovo and Metohija can accomplish the tasks for which they were sent and to be status neutral. Otherwise, the legal basis for the participation of our forces is the Law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations whose changes and additions are ahead of us. Their goal is to make the process of making the necessary decisions to participate in multinational operations even more effective. Thus, according to these amendments, the National Assembly will from now on decide on participation in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which is not time-limited, instead of making an annual plan each year, based on a decision by the National Assembly on participation in multinational operations, each year. Realisations of Serbia's military participation and other defence forces in multinational operations for next year. Also, this decision would allow the National Assembly to decide which multinational operations could be referred to by members of the Serbian Army and the total number of members of the Serbian Army that could be engaged in them would be precise. Such a decision would be valid until the term of office of a multinational operation or the possible withdrawal of members of the Serbian Army, before the mandate expires, of a multinational operation, which is also being decided by the National Assembly. One of the key newspapers is that the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations will also be based on the foreign-political priorities and interests of the Republic of Serbia for each specific multinational operation. We consider this a good legal solution, because Serbia's foreign policy priorities and objectives should be seen when deciding to participate in certain multinational operations. Today, the National Assembly is due to ratify four bilateral agreements in the field of defence, security and aviation. I would single out a memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Republika Srpska on co-operation in the aviation ring, which strengthens the co-operation of our two states based on the 2006 Agreement establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, as well as traditional friendly relations. This Memorandum refers to several aspects of co-operation in the field of aviation, starting with flight staff training, pilot training, remont maintenance and aircraft repairs. The agreement is an expression of a mutual desire to constantly improve co-operation with Republika Srpska. Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I come from Kosovo and Metohija, we know that our army is a guarantee of peace, security of freedom and protection of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. However, in this part of the territory of the Serbian state, we have a specific situation, namely the presence of the UN Mission, and I would say a UN protectorate. For the sake of the public, and due to the concerns of our people for security in Kosovo and Metohija, I would ask the minister of co-operation of our army with KFOR and Eulexes, because I am deeply convinced, if this co-operation is at an envious level, it is the only guarantee for the security of all citizens in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, because to remind the public and all of us, the agreements we have signed they specify under what conditions and when our military and armed forces can operate in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, because so far in many critical situations they have acted as observers, as recently did when the Directors of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Mark Djuric. We hope that the international forces will ensure the safety and security of the Serbian and other non-Albanian living in Kosovo and Metohija. Also, I believe that the Ministry of Defence will do everything for the security and security of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and that co-operation with the International Mission in Kosovo and Metohija will take place in the interest of all citizens in this territory. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the SRS parliamentary group will support the proposed package of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34065	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34066	Dear National Assembly Presidents, respected ministers and co-workers in the ministry as MP for the SPS Group will certainly vote in favour of the proposed defence decisions and laws on the agenda today. I'll take a few sentences out of my mind about the Law of Military Education. In 1994, it was passed as the Law on Military Schools and Military Scientific Research Institutions. It was brought by the Federal Assembly of Yugoslavia, but was also valid during the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and was then valid in the Republic of Serbia following Serbia's declaration as an independent state. Its deadline has certainly expired, and Serbia as a serious state and has a truly glorious tradition in defending the country and in what its military and rich history is, deserves to certainly establish and pass a new law in this area, which we are doing and in fact now. The position of military education is also specific to the Law on the Defence of the Republic of Serbia. It is prescribed that the Ministry of Defence performs tasks relating to the development of education, military education and military scientific and research activities in the defence of the country. It is also prescribed by this Law on the defence of the process of harmonising military education with general education and education system in the Republic of Serbia and of course there are many touching points and consistency between what is the education system in Serbia and what is the specificity of military education, so that it can be considered that military education is nevertheless an integral part of the general system of education in our Republic. It would be wrong and impossible to apply these laws of the education system exclusively in military education, such as the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System or the Law on Higher Education, because military education contains a series of specificities that entail and the adoption of new laws and regulations. Our tradition in the field of military education is impressive and rich. For example, it is important and it is important for the public to know that people know that the first guard school, which is the predecessor of the Guard, was founded by the apparition of Prince Milos Obrenović in 1830, meaning 188 years ago in Pozarevec. Then, the date of the founding of our military school is still taken in 1830, when Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic ordered the formation of an artillery school that grew into the Military Academy over time. Our glorious history of liberating and defending the country is certainly the basis and foundation of military science, military strategies and tactics that are being studied today at higher education institutions in our country, but also on prestigious military accelerations and institutions in the world, such as French "Sen Sir", Russian "Fronze", American "West Point", etc. Let us remember that Zivojin Mišic, through the way the troops were deployed by tactics and precise decisions recorded in history, gave lessons not only to the Austrian army, but also to generations of future officers. The victory at the Colubara was won by a reverse maneuver. It's about defensive tactics, and after retreating to the Colubara and other surrounding mountains, there was a counter-attack. Secondly, a breakthrough of the Thessaloniki Front in foreign textbooks is also being studied and is cited as an example of a struggle in which the motive was a crucial factor for victory. Dedicated by the desire to return to the homeland as soon as possible, our soldiers led in a Thessaloniki breakthrough to attack the Allied army. The commander of the Allied Forces, General D Epera, recognized the motive of the Serbs and gave a key role in the pursuit of the Kaimachalan. This is very important to say and to make one promotion of heroism and tradition and connect to what is today an existing situation in our army and what should be military education for some future glorious future of our army and our country's defence. There are numerous examples of wise warfare in other World War I battles, also in World War II, and certainly there are good examples in what our army did in 1990 in the fight against the NATO Alliance. The data that tells us that many countries have trained their military personnel in our military institutions confirms the fact of the high value of our military education. That's what I'm going to end up with, with a note that we're going to vote for both this law and the other agenda points that are in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34067	Thank you. The word is Vesna Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34068	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with fellow Members, I will talk today about the amendment law and the additions of the Defence Act, and my fellow MPs have talked about the other laws in this package. The defence system of the Republic of Serbia is part of a common system of national security that creates national security interests, which are, above all, the protection of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, the protection of the security of the state and its citizens, the preservation of peace and security in the region and the world. In doing so, I would underline our strategic commitment and that is military neutrality, which includes both co-operation and partnership with countries and international organisations in the area of security and defence in the world. The main reason for the law's adoption, the proponent said, is the need to address the problems and shortcomings identified in the application of rules governing the defence system, but also the need to bring the changes in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia into line. This law complements and precises the work of the Ministry of Defence, then enables the establishment of a budget fund for the purpose of providing funding for the functioning and improvement of the search and rescue services, military aircraft and the development of Serbia's military capabilities. This proposal establishes an obligation to specify what secret data the Serbian Army has to label and guard, because they are of importance to national security. What I would particularly point out is that the law enables the acquisition of the status of the association of special importance for defence, which is associations that are heavily based on areas of importance for defence and their programmes, operations, mass and organisation, contribute to strengthening the defence system. I will take advantage of the opportunity to draw attention to the Union of Back Military Elders of Serbia. So far, these associations have been working under very difficult conditions. A brief reminder of the history of this association. Namely, the Union of Reserve Military Elders is an organization founded in 1919, on the anniversary of the Thessaloniki Front breach. In order not to forget, that glorious victory was won by the Serb army, which was then made up into 80% by reserve officers, reserve officers and reserves. The first president was Duke Stepanovic, who founded it, recognising the need for a wider population that understands the obligation and has the skills needed to defend the country. The 100-year tradition of this organization obliges us to support its survival, regulate its status and funding. The potential of this organization represents positive social values, primarily patriotism, as well as the knowledge and experience of its members in the country's defence affairs. The Union of Reserve Military Elders, along with other goals, cultivates the free tradition of the Serbian people and recalls significant events in history, its struggle for freedom and independence. In that sense, together with my colleague Stefan Miladanovic, I also submitted an amendment to Article 21. The bill of law, and I hope that the status of this organization will be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34069	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34070	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, the representatives of the BIA, the respected officers of the Serbian Army, I would first, however, with a few days of delay, have celebrated the Day of the Army and I as an MP only now have a chance to congratulate you, because I must say that we MPs, at least the opposition, do not know whether the ruling party, are getting calls for such important dates, and we would be happy to respond to the presence and attendance of these solemn academics on such important dates as Statehood Day or the Day of the Army of Serbia. However, I hope that will be corrected in the future. You are present today and all these few days with us to debate and ultimately vote or support or not a set of military laws and a bill on amendments to the BIA Act. I'm going to take a quick look at this BIA Act first. As far as this law is concerned, i.e. His changes and additions, contained only in about five, six members, are said to be explained, and the minister said that the aim of these amendments is to emulate this law with the newly adopted Law on Police and the Law on Salary in the Public Sector. It is no problem for these changes to be resolved only in the context of the establishment of a working relationship, the deployment of jobs, the promotion and improvement of the knowledge of officers. But what we have but and what we, as well as other opposition MPs, want to point out is a change through the newly added members, where, whether we want to admit it or not, it gives great power to the director of the BIA. I know, you have defended that the manner of every government was to keep such important systems, such as the system of power, the system of government and the system of the military under the control of the ruling political party or the ruling political furniture. The fact is, it was. But I personally think, as the MP of the DSS now, that maybe it's time we changed that practice, not to let such important systems, such as the military, such as the BIA, be put under one man's control, i.e. Director BIA, let us put under the control of one party, wherever it belongs, and most often it is the ruling party, and thus we put the whole system under control, or we risk such systems, and therefore the state, because these are the strongest systems, we put one man – director or minister or one party under control. When I point out these remarks, I'm not talking about who the director of BIA is now, is that the best director yet? I am simply afraid that if we pass such laws, perhaps after this director, the law will remain, the authorities will change, some other director will come, who will abuse this power in the Agency and, finally, it will always be a shame for both the state and these institutions, because we, gentlemen officers, live in Serbia and we are aware that we are increasingly weak institutions, and the power of individuals is increasing. Of course, many before me have commented on Article 7 where the Director brings the Act on Systematization and Posting. This act defines both how managers and the internal control and the division of jobs and the description of jobs and the protection regime and the number of perpetrators and conditions for each job, meaning absolutely everything. Of course, another observation – the Institute of Competition. When it is laid down in the law – there is no need to call a job competition, it is right to cause a cold and doubt as to what jobs will be filled without competition. Of course we know that BIA is a sensitive system and of course we don't think that every operational job should be called a competition. But there's probably some jobs to do. So please, and that's why our DSS amendments went that way so we can relax that concentration of power a little bit. For the sake of time, I will only briefly refer to the law amending the Law on the Serbian Army. And that's where I had a remark, with Article 18, that there was a concentration of power. It is still left here for the minister, in a way, to solve for himself, to resolve, to place the formations of the colonels and colonels and the majors, and the Chief of Staff only to the commander. I think we should share a little bit there. I think you understand me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34071	The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34072	I will talk about the proposal for a law on military education, which gives me special satisfaction, as well as the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BIA Act. Serbia is rarely praised by the country's long and rich tradition of military education. The education of its own officer staff as a need was recognised already in the 19th century and resulted in the establishment of an Artillery School in March 1850. As the military and officers of the past were bearers of national ideas and promoters of Serbian statehood, so today the Serbian Army is most called upon to preserve this statehood and its identity, and in line with the tasks it was designed for. Knowledge, ability and responsibility, as fundamental values brought by Serbian officers from military schools, are a prerequisite for carrying out the tasks set on both internal and international terms. The definition of the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as its armies, and the development of partnership relations with European and world-wide international security structures, and this is achieved among other things by co-operation in the field of military education. That is why an effort to create quality professional personnel is one of the military's top priorities, which is also an investment in the future of the Serbian people. Analyzing the existing situation, it was concluded that the applicable Law on Military Schools and Military Research Institutions did not comply with the regulations governing the education system in the Republic of Serbia and therefore it was necessary to normatively regulate the specificities of military education in order to comply with those regulations and put outside the legal force of the Law on Military Schools and military scientific and research institutions by adopting and applying the draft laws on the agenda and whose solutions are interrelated we create preconditions that the Serbian military school in the future has an educated chamber, trained for various challenges. The task of the Serbian military school is primarily to educate soldiers, officers who will be able, if necessary, to wage war, but above all negotiate, peace and build bridges of mutual trust and respect. By adopting this proposal for a law on military education, the Serbian military school would finally be on track. Military school would have a safe future with respect to a long and rich tradition. We cannot ignore the important fact that from year to year the interest of girls and young men, who are enrolled in military schools out of love for uniforms and military professions. Serbia's military today is concerned, which was not the case during the previous government, even on the contrary, in every possible way it was demoralized and destroyed, which certainly was difficult for all citizens, because the military is essentially our national being. Our government, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, is starting to lead a different policy since 2012, to allow for greater isolation for the military and thus moves with the rise of Serbia's army. The creation and construction of a modern Serbian state and the military gets its confirmation in preserving traditional values, but also in accepting and adopting new cultural flows, so that today it is the pride of our people and our country and I am free to say – the most respected and loved institution. The fact is that our country, President Alexander Vucic and the Government, or the Ministry of Defence, whose head is man-in-chief of this ministry, Mr Alexander Vulin, is going in line with trends and, recognising the potential of young people's knowledge and creativity, has taken another step towards a more efficient and rational military education and has proposed the adoption of the Law on Military Education, which will be adopted by the SNS in the day of voting, as I am. As regards the Bill on Amendments of the BIA, I would first of all stress that it is necessary to pass the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BIA Act in order to preserve the existing working-law status of members of the Agency and in order to comply with the new laws adopted, the Law on Police, the Law on Public Sector Payments. Given that the rights, duties and responsibilities of members of the Agency are subject to the applicable Police Act, it is important to establish that it is not responsible for the Agency, taking into account its very specific nature, as a consequence of the law of established tasks, jobs and powers, so it is necessary to maintain the organisational structure, specificity of working status and the position of members of the Agency in order to effectively, properly and legally function and work on the single system of the Agency. Our country, as well as the surrounding countries, faces a multitude of complex and linked challenges and threats of security that have an impact on us, but also on international security. In addition to those challenges and threats that come from the outside, such as international terrorism, transnational organised crime, corruption of international proportions and others, the Republic of Serbia faces problems of its own security that affect only indirectly -- Kosovo and Metohija, land-based security zone, post-war consequences, refugee and others, so we need to have a properly measured and civil-defined strategic concept of security, which is a condition for achieving security, and thus the survival of the country itself. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote for the law on the day of the vote, as one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34073	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. He's not here. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34074	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with ministry associates, gentlemen of the Serbian Army, representatives of the BIA, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, today we have a set of 14 laws in the military-security area and three agreements. I will be happy to vote in the day to vote on these laws and agreements, because I know that Serbia's top has written these laws. First of all, let me tell you that it is a great pleasure and an honor to speak before you. Thanks to you, Serbian citizens sleep peacefully. Let's just remember in 2014 when there were catastrophic floods. If you weren't here, it would have been terrible. Thanks to your courage, your skills, your speed and your sacrifice, you risked your lives, but you saved ours. Thank you for that. You had one big problem. There weren't enough boats. You know why there weren't enough boats? Because the former minister, Mr. Sutanovac, sold the boats and not just boats, but devastated the entire army and not just the military, but the weapons. Just remember how much he sold the tanks. Five thousand dollars a tank. He drowned everything that could be melted – hoods, tanks, absolutely everything and remained in debt to the pensioners. Imagine, you owe pensioners money. As we arrived in 2012 at the head of the SNS, we solved this problem by paying five billion dinars to reforms, good policy and surplus, because it would cost 10 billion dinars in courts. Gentlemen of the Army, you're doing well, and not just that. Thanks to SNS and coalition partners, we have been slowly investing in the budget since 2012. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/35 of 19 December 2016 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council That's how it's done, and I hope it gets better every year. What is fascinating to me is that there are 30,000 members of the Army in Serbia. However, I know your salaries are low. Well, we've increased our salaries in part. Mr. President of the Republic Alexander Vukic has promised, and that will certainly be so, because we know that whatever he has promised he has fulfilled. Every year there will be an increase in salary, until it is one salary very decent for as much as you do. What is fascinating to me, and the government has already made the decision is to build apartments for members of the military, who have not resolved their housing issue and the square meter of the apartment will be 550 euros, since local self-government and the Republic will give up their taxis and the rest, and even if it does not, it will be around 700, 800 euros. I'm sure he'll give up, because unlike Gilas' apartments, which were fantastic, the price of 1,250 euros. Go ahead and say a few more words about what Serbia has been doing for the past four years. In particular, last year, six moments arrived from Russia, with our four to be remounted, will be 10, and when we get out of Belarus, it will be 14 moments that will finally mate in the sky of the Republic of Serbia. What else do you say? Perhaps most importantly, that the course of the Republic of Serbia is political, the EU, but that neutrality is war and we have to underline it. Of course, by this law, we will define finally and this military neutrality, which is very good. We're somewhere between east and west, the central house on the road. Somehow everybody respects us, doesn't respect us, but they want us to be theirs. War neutrality is the right way for us. Thank you very much. I will vote with pleasure in the day of voting for the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34075	Thank you. Next speaker, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not here. Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34076	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the laws we are discussing today, I would like to put a special accent on the proposal for a law on the production and transport of arms, precisely because of the great importance it will have for the defence industry, both for the purpose and for the development and promotion of this area. The defence industry is of course a great opportunity for the development of the Republic of Serbia. We have just witnessed that over the past few years she has had a turn-off precisely thanks to people who have come to the head of the Ministry of Defense, recognized the potentials were ready to support and invest in this area. First of all, I think of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, Mr. Bratislava Gasic, who have done a lot for the purpose and for Trstenik, but of course Mr. Djordjevic and Vulin, who continued with this policy and this kind of programme towards the dedicated industry. The negative trend is a halted trend, the trend our factories have made for losers and these factories are now moving through recovery and development. The purpose survived the most difficult times, but with the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, she was able to take part actively in the world market again. By 2012, the target was the fourth largest debtor. Debts were also on the basis of taxes, contributions and contributions themselves, and indeed were heavily burdened by the operations of this factory. The debt figures were huge and it wasn't a zero that was supposed to go with it, it was a deep minus. There was no machine purchased after 1984, workers received 20% of the salary. The arrival of Aleksandar Vukic and Bratislav Gasic stopped this trend and the factories began to recover. Today, the head of the Trieste women's dedicated mission is what woman, female dragon, who runs the factory responsibly and domestically in co-operation with the Ministry of Defence, in co-operation with workers. Why am I saying this? Because workers have decided that at the moment the factory began to make a profit, the surplus is not invested in an increase in wages, but is investing in the purchase of new machines. So, they decided to borrow their own money, not from the loan, not from nine new machines, which, of course, speaks of how responsible they are to their factory and think about its further development and the way it leads. If we add to this fact that last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has defined three and a half million euros for modernising production and that it has put into operation the equipment hall and machinery day, we can really talk about the bright future of this factory which currently employs 650 people and has stable contracts. The purpose is export-oriented and most of the product is for the foreign market, and as much as our products are wanted talks and the fact that the intention at the arms fair in Abu Dhabi signed a direct contract, so no mediators, with Emirates, which is of course extremely important to us. So today, when only 2017 made a profit of 137m euros and compared to the previous decades when it was extremely difficult to do business, was a loser and practically under bankruptcy, these are exceptional results. Co-operation and agreements with the Ministry of Defence will allow the realisation of new projects for Serbia's Army to actually become the bearer of uniting Serbia's dedicated industry. What provides for this bill and what is very important is to make a conversion of all claims made by December 2016, which is an exceptional move because it would relieve business and relieve all debts that burden these factories. I note that since 2014, the intentional one has been paying off its commitments in terms of the self-debt she has owed. It is also intended to resolve social capital and obligations towards creditors in the package, which we, of course, recognise as an extremely great opportunity for the TMO factory in Triestenik. State creditors convert claims based on the main situation on 31.12.2016 and write off the debt based on interest to the arms manufacturer and military equipment belonging to the group. When we talk about a group of factories that belong to the defence industry system, I hope that Mr. Minister will reach out and confirm that the technology and metal processing factory in Tristenik will finally and officially join and belong to this family because of its exceptional importance for the defence industry. The education of a wider group of factories under the roof of a defence industry group will make exceptional solutions for this group. On this occasion, I am thinking, of course, of improving the capacity for the production of weapons and military equipment according to the programme, which is referred to by Article 41(1) or financial injection which we had the opportunity to see during the previous year as well as in support of the modernisation and acquisition of new equipment for the manufacturing of the dedicated industry. We expect, of course, this kind of support to continue in the coming period. Due to all the above and the importance for the inhabitants of Triestenik municipality and workers of this factory, because of everything that will bring about the development of this municipality factory and for the whole region, I will be happy to support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34077	Thank you. The next speaker is Sanda Raskovic Ivić. He's not here. Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34078	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, representatives of the BIA, gentlemen of the Serbian Army, has been ahead of us for the third day, a set of laws relating to defence, security, the military, to strengthen the capacity of the dedicated industry, to the BIA. The aim of all these laws is to strengthen the capacity of both the military and the dedicated industry, but, of course, the defence agreements signed by the government, signed by the defence minister, are also very important. I want to point out first of all that being a soldier is an honor, that soldiers best possible promote the honor and reputation of the Serbian Army, but of course the Republic of Serbia, especially in five UN peacekeeping operations and four peace operations conducted under the auspices of the EU, which are risk management operations. Of course, I would also like to commend the involvement of the Republic of Serbia Army, especially in joint activities with the MUP, and during the migration crisis when they have jointly kept the borders of the Republic of Serbia from illegal crossings, but have certainly worked to prevent human trafficking and carry out a task concerning security and security and migrants, but also the security and security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All those remarks that we had to hear from the MPs of the yellow company in different aggregate states, which related to the BIA and to the overauthority of the BIA director, absolutely do not stand, nor have any basis in the law. In fact, the law only lays down the powers of BIA directors in a transparent way, establishing how to adopt acts on systematisation and internal arrangement, on salaries. Of course, he has a control role, and he has a control role from his founder, that is, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the yellow company is the most troubled by the success and progress that the SNS has made in all fields, and also in the field of national security. When it comes to national security, I would also like to commend all preventive activities on the plan to identify and respond adequately to the security risks that arise throughout the global world, and Serbia is part of the global world. Mr. Defence Minister, I would also like to commend your commitment to members of the military who are participating in peacekeeping operations, because you ordered soldiers who are in the peace operations in Cyprus last year, but of course soldiers of Serbia and soldiers of Hungary and Slovakia, because they have been evaluated there for seven years by the highest possible marks by their command and honor and proudly convey the name of the Republic of Serbia Army. What I would like to stress is that for the first time the government, led by Aleksandar Vukic, now president of the Republic of Serbia, regained sovereignty over airspace after 16 years. So the "yellow company" in different aggregate states has taken the sky from our citizens. What I also want to praise is that these are your activities during the 2014 flood, which you worked for one with a complete government that was headed by Aleksandar Vukic, together with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, along with many volunteers. I would also like to point out that the "yellow company" regime in various aggregate states has tried to prevent the achievement of your third mission, which is a mission to support and help the vulnerable population, 874 boats, sold at the cost of how much a children's bike, 10,000 dinars, and thus directly endangered the lives and safety of Serbian citizens, and that is not all, they sold and helicopters, these are MI-8, which are now for the rescue and evacuation of people from endangered areas. Those planes are sold under the pretext of surplus. They didn't seem to know they left in 2012, as far as the plane was concerned, less than missing. However, this government has succeeded and succeeded, fortunately, to make up for it. Of course, the "yellow company" forgot about civilian training, but therefore there is a sector in the defence ministry that deals with the civil defence sector. In the day for the SNS vote, they will gladly support and give their vote to all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34079	Zoran Radojcic. Here you go. I'm not pretending not to hear, I'm just being polite, and I'm running a session on the Rules of Procedure. [[Radoslav Milojic: Replica. You're pretending not to hear it again.]] (Radoslav Milojic: You are required to give me your word. Your behavior is for the street, not for the parliament. Does Zoran Radojicic want to discuss? Don't disturb him. (Radoslav Milojic: I have the right to reply. How come you're not pretending not to hear what your colleagues were throwing at you? I have the right to a replica. ) No, here, it is becoming clearer and clearer to me why you do not cross the census. Well, not the citizens that rampage and proselytism. (Radoslav Milojic: He wants you safe. He just won't. Change a little bit. It's not hard to be nice. A little theater, a little exhibition, galleries, there's a bonton in the bookstores, read, educate, etc. You're young, there's time for you, there's hope for some. (Radoslav Milojic: It is not hard to learn the Rules of Procedure. Shame on you. Thank you. I'm really embarrassed, but because you yell at me every day, and I hope that the Women's Parliamentary Network, or someone who faked yesterday, that we all stood behind a statement, react, and that when they insult me and curse the MPs, and not only when opposition MPs come together and act for themselves. (Radoslav Milojic: Shame on you. Don’t come to the sessions if you’ll keep making scandals. (Radoslav Milojic): You won't tell me I'm not coming. If you're going to make scandals, don't yell. You have a warning. I can't really be intolerant of someone who every day they go into the O.R., when they wake up and yell at the chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34080	I thank the president. If you can just get the time back. Dear President, thank you. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister with associates, gentlemen officers, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Serbian Movement of the Dveri does not consider it justified to bring the debates together at these points, and we believe that the same thing has been done to ensure that these proposals are adopted quickly and without adequate debate and that the opposition is denied to explain its amendments. It is true that one part of the above proposed acts is connected, it is true, but it certainly does not justify such behaviour, let us add that the above can certainly not be said when it comes to the draft law on amendments and additions to the BIA Act. When it comes to the first two points of today's search, Dvori does not object to the participation of Serbian military members in multinational operations if these operations are carried out under UN auspices. We are opposed to participation in EU-sponsored operations, because we are actually experiencing such operations and we believe that these are NATO-based missions, and that we should not participate in such operations. What we find very controversial here, unacceptable, is a high number of members of the Serbian Army who can head for peacekeeping missions, which were planned in 2018. It is mentioned here that up to 700 professional members of the Serbian Army can be headed outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Why do we have a problem with that? Well, because there's no legal possibility of these members retreating while they're on missions, until the missions are over, and God forbid, there might be some critical emergency situation where we're gonna need to hire these people. Therefore, it would not be the first case that some countries have some of their best members abroad as participants in foreign missions, while at the same time having a need to engage them in their own country. So we cannot support these two proposals in a situation where our country faces numerous military-security challenges. So we won't support it. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, there are several extremely controversial issues concerning the proposal in question. In the first place, we believe that there is no reason for this proposal to be adopted by emergency procedure. It's a similar situation with most other proposals in our joint search. The exception is the proposal for a law on military education, given that the regulation of this legislative matter was necessary ten years ago, if I am not mistaken, and that it was not completed by constitutional law, and it is desirable, as the proposer pointed out in the explanation that the matter of military education was fully arranged by the beginning of the next school year. That's understandable. When it comes to military education, we put it in our amendments and we'll mention when the time comes. It is necessary to mention certain terms, such as military, officer's, post-office honor, patriotism, so they cannot be excluded from military education, as a topic. We had a great and glorious history, we had giant heroes, and they didn't just become heroes. So they were brought up in a certain spiritual, cultural walk and needed to keep it going. When it comes to other proposals, including the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, this is not the case, and we believe that the authorities intend to adopt this proposal by an urgent procedure in order to avoid public debate as well. Subject matter and the Defence Act itself have been amended and supplemented on several occasions. We believe that it would be much more meaningful to approach the creation of a new defence law that would then pass a public debate and eventually be adopted in a regular procedure. Furthermore, we consider it problematic to cite inter defence interests in Article 4 point 9 of military neutrality. Military neutrality as a principle established by the National Assembly is a question of the military position of one country, in conjunction with geopolitical and geostrategic interests and foreign political orientation, and as such there is no reason to be prescribed by the basic provisions of the Defence Act. I would like to comment briefly on the minister's opening address on the first day of our session. At that time, the minister noticed quite rightly, how much time, among other things, had been destroyed by the hoods, tanks, and how it had affected our country's defence power. It's a good thing the minister said, I commend him for that. It's good for the people to hear who he is when and how he destroyed defense power. However, we too now need to draw attention to this, the minister and his associates, to work on some other things that also destroy the defence power of our country. I am referring to strategic doctrinal documents, planning and development documents and other documents that regulate the use of the military, which were not adopted during the current government or the previous, but during one other defence minister, which are all, as we know, done at NATO's request. This is where NATO favours, NATO standards are favoured, and as long as that is the case, there will be one continuity in jeopardising the defence power of the Republic of Serbia. We call for the document to be amended, such as the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the defence doctrine of the Republic of Serbia, then the Serbian Army doctrine, when it comes to this type of document. As for those other documents, there is a long-term plan for the development of the defence system, a medium-term plan, and then we have documents that predict, such as a defence plan and a plan for the use of the Serbian Army, but to move on. We believe that the provisions of the proposed Member 108, which prescribes that the provisions of this Law on Rights, Obligations and Responsibility of persons in the Ministry of Defence, are equal in the relations between women and men and intended exclusively for the universal trend of political correctness. As for the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, I find there is no reason to be adopted by emergency procedure. As regards the provision of Article 10. A proposal amending the provisions of Article 53(1) of the applicable law, given the fact that it is not specified which persons are outside the structure of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, which the military police will provide. It's very difficult for us. Then, as a problematic provision of article 18. The proposal, which adds Article 72 to Article 2 which reads - exclusively from Article 1 of this Article, if no international contract is concluded, the defence minister may approve work in the structures of an international organisation or regional initiative, provided that it is not contrary to the needs of the service. The question arises as to how and on the basis of which criteria the defence minister can approve such a thing to the said person without the existence of an international contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34081	Is the speech done? Thank you. The word is Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34082	The respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens, a set of laws relating to military and BIA, as an agency of exceptional importance. To begin with, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate, first of all, Army Day to the troops of the Republic of Serbia, and in the meeting of May 15th, in two weeks, a little more than two weeks, it will be four years from the emergency situation that happened in 2014 to the Republic of Serbia and which we have, first of all, thanks to the Army of the Republic of Serbia and, on the other hand, to the citizens from which we have managed to get out in the best possible way. Indeed, I am taking the opportunity on behalf of the citizens of Sapac, and possibly the citizens of all Serbia, to thank, first of all, Chief of Staff Ljubishi Dikovic, who, right on behalf of the initiative, and by order of Alexander Vukic, was in Sapac and as Commander of the Emergency Staff, managed to bring one hopeless situation, as it seemed, into a state of normal state, or that several tens of thousands of people, who appeared at the invitation of Alexander Vukic, in defence of Capca from the flood, simply put the system in order and that of that group, not self-initiated at the invitation of the president. The government, at that time, came to Shabac for study and textbooks, is the way in which out of 10,000 – 20,000 people, we will probably never know exactly how many nights were in Šapec, for a very short time a system where they worked effectively and most importantly, where the town of Shabac defended itself from the flood wave of 666 centimeters, which in a thousand years was the unrecorded height of the Sava River. What happened then in all of Serbia has just happened to the people and happened to the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Together with its citizens, the Army was the foundation and was the centre around which everything that it wanted to help was gathered, and all citizens and state-owned public enterprises wanted, but also private and private enterprises and showed that the style could save Serbia and that it had just saved Serbia in 2014. Faith has been restored to people, faith in Serbia's Army, faith in the state. I can't agree with my opposition colleagues, especially my colleague Zivkovic, who is against the fact that VMA doctors don't use weapons, or they don't know how to shoot, because if they weren't military doctors, they wouldn't wear VMA prefixes, or they wouldn't be doctors who will react and who can act in military and war situations. It simply speaks enough about how important the Serbian Army is to them, or how important the essence is, and in essence, the Serbian Army is an army that must act in all conditions and in war and emergency situations, of course and in peace. The actions the military has peace is precisely this preventive action that leads everyone else to know and need to know what Serbia is, what kind of state it is and what kind of army that country has. The law on education in the Serbian Army is for support and certainly in the voting day everyone who thinks well and the Serbian and Serbian armies will vote in favour of the law. We will not be in a situation where people who are not professional enough or who have not completed the appropriate schools are in any position where decisions are made of national importance, or decisions of military importance that could affect the future of the Republic of Serbia. A series of defence laws and armies give us security that we will have a strong army in the future, have an army that has support in the people and this army of the Republic of Serbia, this people and this Republic of Serbia together with the President of the Republic of Serbia have a future. These laws will only strengthen responsibility and only in the end will I return to the comments that come from the yellow company that our ministers, which are not our ministers, are not our BIA director, it is BIA Director of the Republic of Serbia, it is Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They have no less responsibility than under the previous law but have clearly defined what and what they are entitled to and how decisions are made in accordance with the law. For last, once again, I would like to thank the Army of the Republic of Serbia for 2014. I thank the citizens who, together with the Army, have defended the Republic of Serbia or their citizens from the floods and for the end, we have the future and once more thanks to the military and surely we move on, forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34083	Thank you. The word is Anna Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34084	Dear representatives of the ministry and general staff, participating in multinational operations to build and preserve peace is one of the tasks of political defence of the Republic of Serbia that stems from its strategic definitions and three missions. These are an effective defence system, peace and a favourable security environment, integration into international security structures. The involvement of members of the Republika Srpska Army and other defence parties in multinational operations under the mandate of the UN and the EU, the Republic of Serbia strengthens its security capacities, diplomatic relations, as well as quality. It is no doubt that Serbia is a recognised partner in the preservation of peace around the world. Our defence forces are ready and trained, rewarded and decorated in almost all peacekeeping missions. It's certainly about trust professionals. However, I will refer to the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy's comments on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. Given the nature of the proposed changes, the emergency procedure does not seem justified. Also, what is controversial here is that the control role of the National Assembly is limited. By amending Article 7 of the current law, the National Assembly is predicted to decide, on a proposal from the government, on the use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations. Under the decision, the government adopts a detailed annual plan to realise the participation of the Republic of Serbia's military and other defence forces. Also, the whole plan is scheduled to be prepared by the Ministry of Defence, in co-operation with the authorities. The law stipulates members of 7 and 8 that a detailed annual plan is adopted by the National Assembly, on the basis of which it decides on the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. These changes make the whole process more flexible and operational, that is, the fact that it is not waiting for the National Assembly to approve the annual plan, but it is diminishing, I repeat, its control role. The proposed solution implies that the National Assembly makes a decision, a time limitless one, containing the names and mandates of the mission, as well as the number of members of the Serbian Army who will be available for engagement. The applicable law of authority of the National Assembly is much wider. For example, through the adoption of the annual plan she also controlled funding for participation in multinational operations. The role of the Assembly in making a decision on participation in multinational operations is certainly important, in order to ensure greater democratic legitimacy and to facilitate public debate, and it is important to find a balance between efficiency and democratic supervision. What's the big deal here? The dispute is that the participation of civilians in multinational operations is currently beyond the reach of the National Assembly. It is also disputed that Article 10 has been detained, which states that the government is making a decision on the participation of civilians in these operations. Namely, when adopted in 2009, the Operations Act was in line with the Law on Police, which envisioned the government deciding on the participation of MIP members in multinational operations. However, the new Police Act, in Article 21, prescribes that it is a decision by the competent authority, which allows for the amendment of the Law on Multinational Operations to be prescribed by the National Assembly to decide on this. The government's decision provides for, the fact is, greater operationality in sending civilian experts to peacekeeping missions, but the issue of parliamentary control over the decision has been raised, which the MP's group "Enough" has already pointed out when the Law on Multi-national Operations was adopted. Also, it is not clear why the solution from Article 7 of the current law, where the competent ministries are preparing parts of the annual plan for their members, in the proposal, is being expelled, so is it intended for the Ministry of Defence to draw up an entire plan? In addition, amendments to Article 17 of the applicable law stipulates that the government is adopting a report on the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces, which is being prepared by the defence ministry in co-operation with the authorities. The report has a different name than the previous report on the implementation of the annual plan, which was also adopted by the government, but it is exactly the same. A provision that obliges the Government to report to the National Assembly and the President of the Republic for information, which is certainly a good solution, given the competences of these institutions. As well as the annual plan, the report is being prepared by the Ministry of Defence in co-operation with the authorities. This bill missed the opportunity to more precisely determine the civil dimension of decision-making and planning, although the need and benefits of civilian participation in multinational operations have been recognised. The emphasis of this proposal remains on the military component of the mission, and the role of the foreign ministry, which should be the bearer of this process, is not defined. Although amendments to the Law on Ministrys have also been added to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – on the organisation and provision of participation of civilians in missions, this proposal refers only to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as part of the body for coordination. Also, there is no regulation on participation, as well as on the selection and training of persons not coming from the state administration, but, for example, from the private sector or civil society, who can make a significant contribution to the involvement of civilian experts in multinational operations. The MP group Enough was believed that developing civil expertise outside the framework of the state sector can help bridge the gap between the expertise currently being sent to missions and untapped potentials. Finally, I would like to congratulate the military observers, staff officers, medical staff in the sanity teams and military hospital, units of the level of department, water and troops and autonomous ship protection teams at Serbia's good representation around the world. I would ask the generals to share with us MPs and citizens some field experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34085	Thank you. The word is Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34086	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I will focus in my presentation today on the draft law amending and supplementing the BIA Act, which is necessary for the preservation of the working-law status of members of the Agency, as well as on the alignment with the Law on Police, which has introduced into the legal system a number of newspapers which in a completely different way are governed by individual legal institutes from the domains of working relations, especially those relating to the establishment of employment, the system of division of jobs, the criteria for the schedule of jobs, career advancement of police officers, transfer, calling, evaluation and other institutes. The proposed amendments and additions shall respect the characteristics that individual institutions in the field of working relations make specific, both in the organisation and manner of functioning of the Agency, and in respect of the powers that members have in doing their jobs in relation to employment in other state bodies. Comments relating to Article 1. The draft law, which adds, among other things, the new position 2 to the existing Article 7 after Article 2 which stipulates that an act on internal organisation and the systematization of jobs is adopted by the Director, with the previous consent of the Government, in the sense that this creates a new, non-existent solution for the functioning of the Agency which allows the Director to be unlimited, until now unknown powers, is fully factual and legally unfounded. It is a solution that is fully in accordance with Article 43(2) and (3). The law on state administration, the basic law governing the internal organisation and the regulation of the authorities of the state administration. The proposed solutions do not increase employees' rights to a minimum, nor give any new authority to their manager from those who have had all directors since 2002. They are only governed by the parent law, unlike the earlier period when the reference provisions were governed by some other law. These changes are the only way to legally regulate a specific organisational structure, working-law status and the position of members of the Agency, as a condition for its smooth functioning in the performance of operations to protect the security of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the bill's proposal in a voting day, as well as any other proposals on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34087	Thank you. The word is Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34088	Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable MPs, distinguished proposing representatives, in my presentation, I will focus on the Law on the production and transport of arms and military equipment, especially the part that is related to the privatisation or partial privatisation of defence industry factories. You will agree with me that the term "privatisation" in Serbia, unfortunately, has become a synonym for obtaining the wealth of individuals or stakeholders at the expense of victims of transition or society. Instead of ensuring sustainable development of privatised companies, most privatisations served to reach either property or building land. Of course, there are also few examples of successful privatisations, where companies have continued their work, workers have kept their jobs and are doing their jobs successfully today. Unfortunately, these examples are small. Now, regardless of these bad experiences in privatisation, the state as owner and manager of the military industry certainly can hardly compete on the market, especially on the global market, given that it also points out that our military industry is oriented to exports and that this exports are significant and that they count on it in the future, and that's good. It is also good that this law has come into the assembly procedure, precisely because it regulates the transport and production of arms and military equipment, especially since private investors will enter the industry. Thus, this fact that the state can certainly have difficulty managing the military industry in such a way as to compete in the world market, it goes in favour of privatisation, whether it is complete or in this relationship 51-49 for these 7 special firms, the main issue which here, I say, is imposed on me, and probably for most Serbian citizens, and particularly for industry employees, is that this way, how this privatisation is going to be implemented, will there really be real strategic partners, does this law offer the best solutions and how the state protects its interests and interests of employees? As you know, you have probably heard that employees of the flag of arms have had a number of protests these days. Yesterday there was a big one in Kragujevac and otherwise they continue the protests every day for an hour with a strike. These people are, of course, concerned about exactly what I mentioned at the beginning. Their concern, of course, is clear and certainly that this congregation debate should also bring them some new information that may shed light on them and bring closer to what is actually being done here and whether they are threatened by it, since they believe they are. The products of the dedicated industry, our dedicated industries, are mostly conventional, so they're mostly built into some technology that's decades old and decades old, since we're mainly producing some conventional weapons. We're still not the bearers of technological development, which normally, given that transition we've had in the first place, is the collapse of the entire industry. What I at least expect is for these private investors to enter, and especially foreign investors in military-owned industries, should, in my opinion, bring perhaps some new technologies. Now, there is now a very specific question -- how will they be motivated, especially for these seven companies that make up this group of defence industry, since their ownership is only up to 15% of their ability to manage capital? So that's where some consortiums are supposed to be, or maybe that opens up the possibility only for those firms where, for example, their related companies, the daughters of these companies, or some large companies, together, they buy part of the property and thus come up with a larger stake in ownership. I kind of feel like that's the solution to that. Otherwise, I find it difficult now that some three different, perhaps competitive in the market, will find themselves in a position that they together buy parts of ownership of it and that possibly even the state continues to manage it, since it has 51% ownership. That business model doesn't seem real to me. I'd like the representatives of the promoters here to get a little closer to us and to clarify this situation, especially because of the people who are employed there and who are obviously worried and, as I said before, strike. What is also particularly interesting, it says here in the clarification of the law that in the initial period, a group of defence industry in Serbia will not have legal personality status. I think it would be good to first clarify that term, is it just one term that defines that these companies are different from the others and are subject to this particular model, or that group may, I don't know, become some holding company and that at the level of that holding company, it will be centralized, let me say, decide and make some strategic plans. As you know, we have an example that is currently happening and is currently lighting up and turning into an affair, which is the entry of Etyhada into "Er Serbia" as a minority partner, where at the end of the day the state is giving huge money, which is about 150m euros, and on account of that, it doesn't get anything back. However, the company continues to exist, to say the least. But compared to those plans that were at the beginning of 2013, we see where they came from now. Which one of you drove "Er Serbia" can notice that it has passed... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34089	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word is Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank all the MPs who have discussed it so far - Mr. Stevic, Mr. Mihajlovic, Mrs. Vacic, Mrs. Ivkovic, Mrs. Gajic, Mr. Krivokapic, Mr. Birmančević, Mr. Christmas, Mr. Radojić, Mr. Stevanović and Mrs. Malušić, Mrs. Turk, Mrs. Vukoičić. So, all of you who have discussed today, you have discussed with good intentions and a desire to advance some of the elements of the law that are before you, some to give support, some to deny support, but when it is debated with good intentions and when it is debated with the idea that this is of the greatest importance for our country, then we can only have good results from this debate. I really thank you for that. I'll try to answer summarily to what was mentioned here. As for BIA authority, or BIA director, I will repeat once again that no single authority has been added to it, only this time, because of transparency, it is stated in the law. So far, this has been about internal acts and referring to the Police Act. Now it's done by law in the BIA. So we can discuss whether it's good or bad, but we can't say that a new authority has been passed. It's not. So, you have the legitimate right to say that you don't think it should, that it should be done by the assembly board, the NGO sector, whoever, it's your right, but the truth is, it's nothing new. That's how it was done and that's how it was done, only because of the change in the Law on Police had to apply this authority to the BIA Act, not to be a reference norm to another law in which it was regulated. So it's your right to say it – I think it's different. It's completely legitimate and I respect it very much, but we just need to understand that it's not new. That's how it was and now it's being dealt with in the way of the law, and I think it's much more transparent when you do something with the law than you allow some internal acts and calling for something else to treat it. As for the call, we call all the heads of Parliament and call all the board members involved, but, I agree, we can always expand that level. It is a great pleasure for me to see MPs and authorities and oppositions on events of state character, such as Army Day. If it doesn't unite us, I don't know what can unite us. It's really like that. Thank you for that. That's how we're gonna do it. As far as peacekeeping operations are concerned, it is not a number of 318 members of our armed forces who are out of the country that could endanger our battletime. If those 318 boys and girls would jeopardize our battletime, then we'd be in big trouble. I understand your concern, but that's a fact. So what's very important, when our boys and girls get back from international operations, they're normally better dressed, more powerful for one experience that they can't get here. Here, let me give you a banana example. Let's say, in Lebanon, he drives a combat vehicle every day and travels it thousands of miles that he wouldn't cross here. When he gets back, he'll know how to drive my combat vehicle. As you know, we are the country founder of the UN. Unfortunately, the regime has kicked us out of the UN and accepted us as a new state. We have become heir to the SFRJ debt, but we have not become heir to the founding rights of the SFRY and it is a political mistake that costs us and will cost us forever, but, well, it is simple and we cannot go back to it, but as a member of the UN we have the obligation to contribute to the UN's active efforts when it comes to fighting for world peace. Also, when it comes to the EU, we go on non-combat missions, we don't fight anyone, we don't make any enemies, but we make a lot of friends. You know, peace operations always have, except for this obvious fact that I've told you, one of the political and economic significance. These are, as a rule, lands that have been destroyed, countries in which someone will start to invest seriously sooner or later. It's good to be here, because when the time comes for the economy to come to bring these countries back to life, it's good to be there, it's good to call on credit, it's good to create the connections we're going to need. Let's not forget, we didn't sell Egypt everything we sold and then there wasn't one of those peace missions in Sinai, the largest in history in the SFRY and Yugoslavia as such. There comes a time when it's charged. As you know, we are in Cyprus. Cyprus is not a member of the NATO Pact, and it is highly appreciated that we are here for so many years. I understand, it's all for and against, but the strategic definition of this country is to be in as many peace operations as possible. We can think... Let's say you have an example of some countries that don't have as many contingents as we do, but they have one, two, three staff officers, so they have dozens of peace operations. You know, some say it's important to put a flag on that map. That's something we can discuss. We can talk about such things, whether we should have peace operations where we hire fewer persons, and more peace operations, but that's also a matter for the assembly debate and especially for the discussion of the board of directors. That's why we went out in public debate with the national security strategy and the defence strategy. It starts with the 7th and you're all welcome, and it already is, the text is already on the Ministry of Defence website. So you can get into it and I expect from all of you a valuable contribution. Once we adopt these two strategies, then we will adopt the equipment strategy. When we define what these threats are, then the experts will say, for these threats, we need such a tool. So it just goes with each other. As far as the laws themselves are concerned, once again, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence was held in 2017 from 3rd to 23rd November, all in accordance with the law. Did anyone think he should be more or less informed I don't know, but anyone who deals with this topic had to know that it was happening and, besides, I'm sure he couldn't have gone through without knowing it. Also, the draft law amending and supplementing Serbia's Military Law, from 3 November to 23 November 2017. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in peacekeeping operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, the committee responsible has reiterated in September 2016, and again in 2017, there is no need to conduct a public debate because there are minimal changes. So it's not up to us again. I don't see anything wrong with that, here, see, I'm talking about it, anyway, and now we're here. Come on, we have to, let's break it once, there are three branches of government in the state of Serbia under the Constitution: executive, judicial and legislative. The fourth branch of government has not yet been introduced. There are theorists who think it should be introduced, there are theorists who think so. The civil sector should be equated with all these elements of government, but in the state of Serbia it has not yet been done. If I ask myself and it won't be done, because I still believe that those voted for have more legitimacy than those who don't have to go for voter trust. With great respect, especially the professional part of the civil sector I follow and watch what they say, I take care of their suggestions, I want our laws to be tailored to what they think and believe, but right now, this is the ultimate standard of everything. You 250 here are everything to me. With all due respect, but the government is here. My job is to inform these 250 people, everyone else is of course welcome and I'm really looking forward to each of their remarks. As for the Law on, which so far did not exist, or existed, but it is time to change and operate in a different way, now no factory that operates in what we call Serbia's defence industry is protected. Now, between the bakery and the weapons factory in the flag, there's no difference, you can come and buy. Only the political will of Alexander Vukic prevented it from happening and his desire for Serbia's defence industry to develop. Otherwise, you could have sold it to anyone yesterday, the day before yesterday, without any protection, the Ministry of Defense would have wondered, in the end, it's the Ministry of Business, it's doing it there, whether it's an agricultural cooperative, whether it's the defence industry of Serbia, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Plus, as you know, plus the Investment Act are equalized by foreign and domestic investors, so he could buy it both foreign and domestic, completely irrelevant. Now, for the first time, we say – first, it can't be below 51%. I immediately told you that I accepted the union amendment, which I spoke with, which asked explicitly to write that the state of Serbia cannot be below 51%, they are absolutely right, I agree with that, that amendment will pass and that is a sure guarantee. I'll tell you right now in 2012, compared to 2012, we now have more than 3,000 employees in Serbia's defence industry and more jobs in Serbia's defence industry. So the state will maintain absolute control over that industry. Here, when we talked a little bit about the Red Flag, the Red Flag now owes 15 billion dinars with interest. Fifteen billion dinars, her pasiva overcame her activity. The debts are worth more, i.e. the debts are higher than the value of the factory. We are now going to wipe out the interest by this law. We are now going to relieve this company with this law and really allow it to breathe, allow it to work. No firing, no change, no ownership transformation in that sense. There's a need to get some money, there's a need to get technology, which is even more important than money right now, there's a need to open up some markets if we can open up markets. Based on all these elements and, of course, you saw in this law, it is explicitly said that it is possible to do all of this unless it endangers Serbia's defence interests, etc. So you have a very wide space to assess whether or not it can happen. So, we are now in the first phase of what we have to do and why is there no legal person now to defend Serbia's defence industry? First, we have to recognize that these companies exist, that they're special, that they're important for something, then we protect them, we relieve them from debt, we clean them up. When we do that, then in the next step we can, we don't want to make a big multi-concept, but we're going to make it according to what they produce, well, you have ammunitionists, you have weapons and vehicles manufacturers, air component manufacturers, electronics, etc. So you can build them into that, but first and foremost to protect them, to clear them from debts that are unnecessary, to secure them, and only then can you get into the process of whether someone will be interested in them or not, and when they're interested, I'm starting to assume that someone is interested, firstly, can't have one owner more than 15%, so he can't, he has to be more, he can't be one, and that's important to us. Second, he has to go through rigorous security checks, until his company can't be blocked, over the fact that the company could never commit any violations, you go to what it does, what it does, who it owns. The owner needs to be transparent, he can't be some kind of thread that shows up like that. Only when all these rigorous checks pass, when they pass, to identify whether it is in line with the interests of the state, will it improve the business of the factory, only then does the Ministry of Defence go before the government of the Republic of Serbia that makes the final decision, and the Ministry of Economy then implements further in accordance with the relevant laws. So, not that it's not in our interest to sell it for good and the Buddha why, but as you can see, we've set up a whole series of branches and filters to avoid making the slightest mistake of it and doing it this way. Just imagine if we had gone out to the market with this Red Flag in 2012, with it, with a debt of 15 billion, small production, workers angry, jobs gone, they would have sold it, they would have asked, these same workers who are now concerned, they would have asked God only to come to someone who would pay their wages and nothing else. That's all that matters. Pay your wages, we don't care who owns it, what he does, who goes. That's what it would be. Now that you have a respectable company, we can worry and talk, but someone had to do it. You sell when it's worth something, not when something's worth nothing. We could sell the airport for 50 million, what it was worth in 2012. Look how much it's worth now and more to keep him at the end of our permanent property. So, I understand concern and it's normal and it's always unions, like everywhere in the world, it's nothing unusual. I have not heard the union say – yes, excellent privatisation; but this is not privatisation, this is capitalisation. The state remains the owner, the majority owner, she decides whether in any way anyone will enter her and there is no, what is most important, as it was with the airport, there is no layoff. Anyone who invests, he wants to produce more, not less. He won't come here to tell us to shut down the production. These are not the time of privatisation from 2007, 2008 when it was privatised to shut down. You take the loan, you shut it down, you pay off the next loan. No, this is, who comes, he wants the factory, he needs the workers. He has a market that he can't satisfy, and that's why he needs a new line, so he needs new production. Let me repeat that again, times change. Our biggest profit is now as these experts say, ammunition profits, but they change times. We must respond to wars that will be fought in the future, which will be increasingly technicalally complex. At this point, we wouldn't be able to respond to the needs of such a war. We just wouldn't be able to answer that. We can sell the grenade, we can sell it, we can make the rockets, we can sell it, but we can't sell it yet, we can't sell the drone. We can't, and in cyber wars we can't talk about what we can't. We're not even sure what's really going on here. How are we gonna do that? By getting the state of Serbia out of nowhere to pull out three or four or five billion dollars and pay off? He won't. No, it just doesn't. And even if you have that money, you have to have knowledge. Where will you find that knowledge? He needs to be drawn. In this law, therefore, it cannot change the ownership structure, that is most important, but you will judge it to the extent that in the coming period our industry in technological terms will progress. Since it can't be sold, it can't be shut down, you'll measure it by how technologically we've made progress, that's the meaning of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34091	Thank you. I suppose fellow MPs are looking for a replica, but neither of you did mention a minister. He answered the MP's questions. He didn't mention anyone. You have no right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34092	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a debate on a set of military laws. The JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the laws of this united debate. My colleague Vujic, as authorised in front of the JS parliamentary group, spoke about all the proposals of the law in this united debate, and my presentation today will focus on two decisions in the largest part, the first decisions on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in the multinational operations in 2018 and the second on the participation of members of the Army in multinational operations in 2018. At the very beginning, Minister, I'm sure you'll agree with me when we say that the Serb soldier has always been respected and respected, even by his opponents. And the overall military strategy of Serbia as a military country has always been based on self-defense. Serbia's military is one of the most valued institutions today, because the Army has always been with the people and Serbia as a country implementing a policy of military neutrality and co-operation with partners both from the east and west, it needs a strong army, with strong morals and certainly Serbia as a country that, I say, develops its military potential and its military industry. When I say this, we have heard various comments, but we speak language of arguments from JS, and I here have to say in favour of this that soon, thanks to the help of our friends first from Russia and then from Belarus, we will have a squadron of modernized moments 29. The Airbus helicopters H 145M will arrive. Then, Minister, we will be stronger for the Russian helicopters M35, which are meant for anti-arming combat. And, Minister, I really hope we have one powerful PVO system soon. On the other hand, I'd like to say, and a number of weapons from our own, to say, production, I'll only remind you, when I'm talking about this, that the former Yugoslavia at the height of its power had a production of military weapons and equipment worth $4.5 billion. When we talk about Serbia, our production of equipment and weapons is now approaching a billion dollars. It says that our defence industry is very successful and that our products are wanted in the world. When I say that they are wanted in the world, I mean not only the countries of the EU environment, not only the Arab countries, but also the NATO Pact countries and the ODKB countries. It should also be mentioned here that the domestic industry has developed some of the key fighting systems for our needs, such as the armored transport "Lazar 3", then the single-top hood "Nora 155mm", but here we really need to mention one more thing, very important, modernization of school and combat planes. It's about "Super Galeb G4" and "Orao". You guys talked a lot earlier about our dedicated industry. You mentioned Kragujevac. I come from Kragujevac, and I am proud to say that Kragujevac is practically the cradle of the military industry as far as Serbia is concerned. I'll just remind you that in 1853, the first cannon tubes were poured out in Kragujevac, at that moment. The efforts of the then Serbian Principality to produce weapons and equipment alone have been completed. What's important, I really hope, not coming in, because you've talked a lot about the dedicated industry in Kragujevac, that in the coming period, it will go a long way forward and it's obviously from your speech that it will be so. When we talk about multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia confirms its interest and intention to contribute specifically to global, European and regional stability and respect for rights by participating in these multinational operations. Starting as early as 1948, when the first peacekeeping mission was organized in the Middle East, a large number of peacekeeping missions have been active in the world today, to say, due to the growing number of crisis hotspots and armed conflicts. Wars have kind of changed their temper today. It used to take three, four, five years. It takes 12, 13 years, they don't even see the end, like, in Syria. So, given this, multinational operations are getting more and more important to preserve peace in the world. Now, by hiring the Serbian Army and other defence forces, the Republic of Serbia shows that it is an active factor in preserving peace and security in the world. Also, by participating in peace operations, we show clear and firm evidence of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia that we are committed to the peaceful resolution of all conflicts in the world, and also by participation we show that we are an equal partner with EU and UN countries. The annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces envisions the participation of up to 700 members of the military and 11 members of the MUP in the EU and UN forces. Serbian blue helmets are planned to keep peace for nine missions, so five UN-sponsored missions and four EU missions, and will be made by military observers, to mention once more staff officers and sub-offices, medical staff in sanity teams and hospitals, then units of the level unit of the infantry department, water and troops and an autonomous ship protection team. So it's about missions with different tasks and different goals. It's no secret, Minister, that in all the operations our soldiers participated in, i.e. Our blue helmets, they're recognized for sure as excellent soldiers and people who carry out all their duties professionally. That says the fact that many missions were decorated, so there were really plenty of them. At the very end, since I'm running out of time, I want to say one very important thing. I said our soldiers and our blue helmets are recognized as great soldiers and professionals. It lies in the fact that they know that they recognize what the hardships of a nation mean and how to deal with these difficulties, because certainly, we as a people have been through all this. At the very end, I will say just one more time, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all these draft laws from a united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34093	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34094	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected members of the Army, respected members of the BIA, we have before us very important laws that we are discussing today, above all, the laws of the military and the BIA area. The common denominator, above all the Military Act and the BIA Act, is that these laws, i.e. The addition of these laws is passed, above all, in order to increase the powers and powers of the Minister, or Director of Police. In the last two days, we have heard the most about supplementing the BIA Act, and with full law, it has caused the most controversy. Instead, honourable Members of Parliament, that we are today discussing the new BIA Act and that we do this area in a comprehensive manner, we are dealing with the powers of the BIA director, and we are not dealing with how the BIA Director should be elected, as are the representatives of the military intelligence service, the VBA etc. Here, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, because there was plenty of controversy that was the authority of the BIA director, I will read the enormous powers of the BIA director. First, the Director of BIA shall adopt an act on the internal organisation and systematisation of workplaces, decide on the establishment of a working relationship in the Agency by means of a solution, determines the content of the questionnaire on the identification data used for security checks, determines the procedure, programme and method of attending vocational training, professional training and passing of a specific expert examination, determines the procedure, criteria and method of evaluation of members of the Agency, determines the coefficients for the calculation of salaries, with the prior consent of the Government. Nothing is unusual that I have read now, and that is true, I can say freely, in most EU countries, but especially in countries in the environment. However, it is not unusual for such large powers of BIA directors not to be regulated, first of all, in a legally prescribed manner. As I said earlier, you have a BIA director in the surrounding countries, especially in countries where there is a much greater democracy than currently in Serbia, where there are clear criteria, not politicians. I'm not just talking about Mr. Gasic right now, I'm talking about all the previous BIA directors, and I think it's something bad. There's been a trend since 2002, and I think we need to change that. We tried to do it on several occasions, but the last time we did it in 2015, I think Mr Panic remembers that, when the chairman of the Assembly Security Committee where I was a member of that committee, we even wrote a proposal, of course, in co-operation with the Belgrade Centre for Security, which also wrote a bill on BIA, but unfortunately i.e. the interest in such a law has ceased. I don't see why even in the BIA, as it is in the VBA, a man from the internal system for the director of the BIA wouldn't be put in place. So, the man who worked at least, as it says in the VBA law, nine years in the security system, not that we bring politicians and then with full rights and citizens, and we MPs here doubt whether this BIA director works by the rules of the ruling party, whether he works by the demands or interventions of someone on the outside or so on, etc. In order for all of this not to be done, I think it is necessary to make a new law that will very clearly and precisely determine the rules, not only the selection of BIA directors, but also the deputy director of BIA. In the same way, I have to be chosen by the Deputy Director of the BIA. I don't see any reason for it not to be like, I repeat in the Military Intelligence and VBA. It's simply something that exists in the laws of the countries in the environment. I'm not dealing with this issue anymore. I think I've said enough and that's enough. I repeat, in particular, I call on Members of the ruling parties to support this initiative, to move together to draft a new BIA law and not to put ourselves in a position to question such matters. I just said that the Army law is kind of like that, too. Amendments and additions to the Army Act have been passed so that, above all, the minister has greater powers and greater powers. I'll only give you two examples. For example, in Article 2. Draft of Article 8. The law on Serbia's military, Article 18, introduces point 8a, which specifies the defence minister's authority to adopt a plan to research and develop weapons and military equipment and regulates the way and process of researching the development of production, transport, procurement and weapons of military equipment for the needs of the Serbian Army. Unlike the equipment plan, the minister of research and development does not bring on the proposal of the Serbian Army's Chief of Staff. I don't know what that is about, and we all know that many scientific and researchers in the general staff, such as the Military Geographic Institute and the Technical Experience Center, etc...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34095	I'm sorry, but you don't have any more time, six minutes and 12 seconds. (Vladimir Djukanovic: Replica. ) On what basis, my colleague Djukanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34096	Mr. Gasic is mentioned and the ruling party has been mentioned, as we place people...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34097	The ruling party. How do I know who he meant?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34098	Thank you. I'm obliged, of course, to answer, since it's mentioned here...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34099	Excuse me, colleague Djukanovic, ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34100	Thank you, Your Honor. I am obliged, of course, to respond, as it is mentioned here that the ruling party is putting political figures in such an important place as BIA. By the way, a respected colleague, whom I really respect, was part of the system, where the ruling party then appointed its party member as BIA chief, so I don't understand why he didn't stand up to it at the time. You know, if we were to call on the countries of Western democracy, here's to take one that's our Bastion - the United States. That's where the president of the state puts the chief of staff directly. Imagine if we were to introduce the principle here that the president of the state should appoint a chief of staff. Then what would you tell us? That we have a party state, that we have a single man's personal state, etc? Come on, let's say, if we took an example of America. On the other hand, we hear a constant call to this kind of Belgrade Security Policy Centre. By the way, I call it the British Security Policy Center. These people have so many exotic suggestions. For example, if all our services were to be joined into one, they would have one director. Why? Because then it's easier to control them. What, say, is not suggested by those who do most of them? Let's say, for example, that the UK should suggest that all services be concluded in one or the United States. How many do they have? Nineteen service and all 19 in one. It would be great if, say, that's where they suggested it, and if they were a little bit of a flaw in us and that these exotic proposals were going down, because that desire to control our services, which they have over certain factors, should really be less represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34101	The word has the People's MP Goran Bogdanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think, Mr. Djukanovic, with all due respect, you also misunderstood me. I didn't say at all that only the ruling party is now putting a politician at the helm of the BIA. I meant all the ruling parties from 2002 to today. That's why I insist on doing a new BIA law to avoid this kind of thing. I didn't accidentally say, as in VBA or VOA, that people from the system who have been involved in the security system for at least nine years are coming. Let's say you have a choice of deputy minister. You know, you have to have at least nine years of public service work, to have a state exam passed, etc., etc. If you currently have this much authority from the Director of BIA, and it is not specified how this BIA director should be elected, I think you will agree that it is absolutely unacceptable. I repeat, I am not talking to you now, nor am I talking about Mr. Gasic, I am not personally interested in personal solutions. I'm talking about the principle, the way BIA is to be elected in the future. I think we've missed a lot of opportunities. We were members of the Security Committee together. You remember the initiative of the then chairman of the Security Committee, Mr Stojanovic. Are we going to that initiative? So I don't see why we here wouldn't all agree to go into the making of a new BIA law that will be acceptable to everyone, and to the government, and to the opposition, not that every year, every other year, whoever comes to power is trying to change things, and in that case you have an attack.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34103	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34104	Dear fellow, it's a good thing you've now admitted that while you were in power you were inconclusive, since you didn't want an initiative like this at the time. I don't mind talking about her. I'll tell you the most honest thing. I'm personally against it and, that story as if we need an independent BIA-led expert, because every political structure, every party is running in the elections, running for some kind of security policy they're going to run. You don't think that now someone who falls off Mars is going to come for some contest to be head of the BIA. Excuse me, it's the government agency that deals with the most sensitive subject in the country. It can't be a person who has nothing to do with some ruling structure. Let go of that story. It has no place in the world, and even in those countries of Western Europe, where you talk about it, and how the ruling structure has an impact on who will be head of BIA. Let's not lie about it and cover ourselves with some democracy. It just doesn't exist anywhere, and I wouldn't be mad at you for doing it. I think that's right. You must have a confidential man in charge of such a system. So let's not get into anything you didn't want to do yourself. I understand your ex-wise, but that's really not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34105	We end up with replicas, colleague Bogdanovic. I think you two got along just fine. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34106	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing a number of very important legal proposals in the field of defence and security, which will focus on the proposal for a decision on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations and one part on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Terrorism, organised crime, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, ethnic and religious extremism, illegal migration, poverty poses only some of the threats and challenges to international peace and stability in the 21st century. An adequate response to a number of different challenges, risks and threats is in close co-operation, coordination and joint efforts by all relevant world, regional organisations, states and their organisations, as well as armed forces. Joint efforts also joined the Republika Srpska Army by participating in multinational operations, which specifically contributes to the global, European and regional security, meeting the accepted obligations arising from membership in the organisation of the UN and continuing the tradition of participating in UN multinational operations, launched in 1956 in Sinai. It should be pointed out that the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations is based on the established security and defence needs and interests expressed in the national security strategy, the defence strategy and the strategic review of the defence of the Republic of Serbia. In line with the positive regulations and foreign political definitions of the state, the Serbian Army is developing capabilities to actively contribute to the security environment and participation in multinational operations under the mandate of the UN and EU organisations. It is necessary to apostrophe of the fact that the opponent is sending our army into multinational operations that all missions are non-combative and are primarily about preserving, maintaining and building peace. The importance of the military's participation in multinational operations is multiple and excessively related to the acquisition of the experience and knowledge of our soldiers who have adopted from their associates and armies of other participating countries, who later apply to the performance of their duties as part of their functional duties. In addition to a possible contribution to the country's political and economic position in the world community, participation in multinational operations also has a positive impact on the development of military thought, practice, and thus on operations as one of the sciences in the defence system dealing with the theory and practice of planning, preparing and performing operations. A very important aspect of participation in multinational operations is the implementation of experience. Experiences from multinational operations can be collected in many ways, but from the experience collected to the implementation of the theory and practice of surgery is extremely complex. There are several modules for a valid and correct way of affecting the development of theory and practice, surgery, however, the most complete way to implement experience is a system of learned lessons, which has been applied in the world for years and has produced exceptional results. A system of lessons learned is an instrument whose main purpose is to solve identified problems and carry out military tasks in the country and abroad. The lessons learned create conditions for fast and efficient use of available resources, in exercises, training and operations, as well as improvement of standards, techniques and procedures in various areas of military activity. Ladies and gentlemen, the current practice of applying the Law in the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia has manifested certain problems that are excessively relevant to the insufficiently effective process of taking the necessary decisions to participate in multinational operations, coordinating activities between competent authorities, the lack of national restrictions and the inability to obtain mobile goods in public property, works and services for the needs of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in operations abroad. This government has identified existing problems and the proposed law will be largely eliminated. In this context, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments and additions to the National Assembly decide on the use of an army outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia that is not time-limited, a co-ordinating body is established to coordinate the state bodies, and the problem in the area of material finance business is overcome. All these amendments and additions to the proposed law have an essential objective, which is to ensure the uniform and efficient functioning of the defence system in multinational operations and the implementation of the assigned missions. Finally, I have no doubt that by adopting the proposed laws, the objectives set will be realised, so in that sense I call on you to support it in the day of the vote. At the very end, although I am coming out of the agenda theme, I would still like to express satisfaction with the draft defence strategy and national security strategy, which is once again explicitly found that Serbia will not recognise the independence of KIM, that it opposes the formation of the Kosovo Army and will actively support the participation of Serbs in the interim institutions in Pristina. This is another unequivocal confirmation of a proper and consistent policy in resolving the most difficult state issue of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34107	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34108	Thank you. I agree with Mr. Minister who praised the atmosphere in which the debate is being held and I would like it so much more often, especially when there are laws on the agenda concerning vital national and state interests, such as in the field of defence, security and of course many others. It would be great if you could always or almost always like that. Unfortunately, it's not like that. I'll try to speak in that spirit, but I'm not sure if such an effort will be adequately evaluated. We are not just here to say, there is not even power here, nor the ruling side of this Assembly, let alone the opposition to shout – it is good, bravo, but I am always for the commendation of something that is right and not to criticise just criticism for the sake of it. This is an example of a united agenda that is logical. We're not always against unification. We're just against the addition and addition of grandmothers and frogs. It's quite logical here, and it's done, and no one really should object by the opposition. Also, the good part of the law and the proposal is to praise or be routine or positive and there is also no need, I speak at the expense of my opposition colleagues, to criticise. There is something I disagree on, something that needs to be discussed, especially on such sensitive and important issues, in a concellitive and parliamentary and democratic tone. I had reservations about some things. That's what we've been reacting to. In the meantime, I have heard some arguments that can also change my mind a little bit or explain what the legislator was up to, which should also be one and the main purpose of this debate here, rather than someone collecting some points and giving some effective or fiery speeches. I must admit that I have been persuaded by the solution I heard from my colleagues on the other hand about the dilemma my opposition colleague had on this point of the BIA Act, which is about the need for a security check for a person returning to work, or a court decision to be returned. It really sounds like a convincing explanation to me. First, I had a dilemma, and I thought it was a step out of the head's jurisdiction, or director of BIA, and then I realized that it made sense to do a security check because from the process to the decision-making process, it could take e-ha-ha-ha time and years, and why not do that security check again. That's just an example I'm referring to. Of course, these laws on military education, education plus minus some possible objections are routine, but useful, modern, and I don't see any reason to be against them. I don't want this to get away for a minute without saying what's controversial about me in these suggestions. So, even when it comes to the participation of our soldiers in peace missions, the minister is really well, I must admit, he explained the best he could defend himself, but still my colleagues and I have some reservations at least when it comes to these most sensitive, most dangerous missions, delicate ones, and we have one dilemma. Most of those missions where our soldiers go to serve are so-called. frozen conflicts that last for years, decades. You see, it happens in the world, it exists in the world. I don't see why we'd be in a hurry to shut down this one of our own and it's unfavourable for us to solve the Kosovo conflict. What is controversial and why I really want to ask you very specifically, Mr. Minister, is already mentioned here in point six, or the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, and more specifically, here I think you could give some more explanations, which is this famous recapitalisation or privatisation in the dedicated, or military industry. I am, and I think that we are on the line of what you have long represented, not the general privatisation of everything and everything, especially the military industry, in particular, by enabling foreign investors in foreign capital in the military industry. I know you can say a lot on the other side. You mentioned it, so domestic investors can also be safely holed up, they can be involved in some structures and be unfair, etc. Of course I can, but when it comes to foreign matters, it's more of a cause for suspicion. So I'm generally against it, especially when it comes to these large traditional military defense systems. You have boasted and should boast that nearly a billion dollars last year were earned from the export of military equipment and weapons, to achieve good results. You said how you raised that industry to your feet, so when you do, put a little more effort into it, a little more rationalization, tighten it up, pull it up so we can do it to preserve it, actually state and national interest and without a big, non-capitalization and privatisation at all, especially without capitalization on the side, from abroad. It is a modern tool in line with some trends across, especially Eastern Europe, but let's just say, when we're talking about examples from the west of America, let's just say you invest foreign investors, let's say Chinese or Russian, to start investing American or British defence industry, regardless of all the mantras about free movement of capital, markets, etc. So that's my key question. I wouldn't spend any more time here. You understand very clearly I think that all of them are looking, against privatisation itself, especially against the possibility that foreign capital, even up to 49% participate in our defence industry, which, I stress, is also putting forward good results, has good results and the effect of being even better in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34109	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34110	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsic, respected ministers with associates, honourable representative of the BIA, I will speak of military school which is normal, since I work in school my whole life. Let me say that the Serbian military school has a long and rich tradition and that it has a rich perspective and a secure future. Serbia is like a rare country in the region, not only in the region, but even in Europe, which can be praised for its rich and long traditional military education. The development of Serbia's military school is closely linked to the development of a Serb army that has brought on its shoulders the burden of liberation wars, as you know in the 19th and 20th centuries. Dear People's MPs, respected ministers, over 168 years of the Military Academy, were enrolled in it by over 70,000 students. Today there are students, cadets and officers and abroad, such as from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro, Turkey and Algeria. The military academy has changed through history and adapted to complex processes of military education, the first step in the creation of officer personnel was made in 1833, when Knjaz Milos Obrenović sent to school, and where else than in Russia 30 young men, I quote, to study for officers, finished the quote. In 1837, however, it was decided to open a three-year military school in Serbia that received 32 students. Respected Serbian citizens, the former regime's party did not pay attention to military education. Military Minister Dragan Sutanovac, in a people called – grabs the money, leaves behind directions that were not accredited. Is that right, gentlemen of the former regime? He left behind an uncredited degree. Is that right, gentlemen of the former regime? He left behind non-transparent finance and undefined status of general staff training. Isn't that right, gentlemen, officers? By coming to power, the SNS had to restore its reputation and pride to military education. Special attention is given to the middle military school, because the officers are actually by the spine of the army. Serbia's army is the most important pillar of Serbia, so the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, Aleksandar Vukic, said in his inaugural speech to the president of the Republic of Serbia on 31 May 2017, that in order to be able to preserve ourselves, we must talk to everyone, but also strengthen our defence potentials, because only there can we preserve the country from those who threaten us publicly and openly and quietly and secretly, finished quote. The state can have a high level of culture, a high level of art, it can have its own philosophy, but all of it can easily turn into dust and ash unless the Republic of Serbia has a capable army that can protect the state. Honorable officers, respected ministers, the military education programs themselves must be devoured by patriotic and patriotic subjects. This was observed by ours, and the world's Nikola Tesla, who in conversation with the students of the Great School said, quote, I am, as you can see and hear, remained a Serb and across the sea, where I do research. It should be the same for you and for your knowledge and work to raise the glory of Serbia in the world, to complete the quote. That's why the main weapon of our pitomatists is knowledge, and the winged one, that is, the devising of our military school is, I quote, our honor is our property, our knowledge of our weapons, a complete quote. This is done by work and great dedication and great love for their country, ladies and gentlemen. It was best shown by Peter Kocic, who said, quote, be a working and faithful member of the country, in one word, be what you should be, an honorable man, a finished quote. Our cadets should be brought up on the thoughts and works of our famous war generals and warlords, heroes, such as Stepa Stepanović, Stevan Sidelic, Radomir Putnik, Petar Bojović, Milan Tepic and Ratko Mladic, who said, quote, the limits are drawn and terminated in blood, and the country defends with all its strengths. Not a dead man if life to defend his country, he's dead if he loses his eternal hearth, complete quote. In my case, ladies and gentlemen, a dead man speaks to you. Thank you, Mr. Minister of Military, Mr. Vulin, for hiring our experienced and proven war generals, such as General Lazarevic and, by the way, restoring the honor and pride of Serbia's army. Former Defence Minister and state president Boris Tadic, a people known as Lipicaner, said in 2006 to our daily list, quoting what the military will quote. The man, along with Dragan Sutanovac, in a people called - grabs money, retires no less, no more, but 30 generals in the best years, at the NATO Pact address, and this wartime commanders and sector chiefs, thus bringing Serbia's Army down to the lowest rank, to a lower rank than a fire company. Yesterday there was criticism against you, Mr. Minister and former SNS ministers, especially Mr. Gasic. Mr. Minister, you, neither Mr. Gasic, but Dragan Sutanovac, in obtaining a mobile radio-real connection system via "Yugochemy" damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia by 270 million dinars – Report by the State Auditor and published by a prominent newspaper in our country 18. Seventy-seven. 2017, page 17. It was not you, military ministers Vulin, or former Bratislava Gasic, who paid Dragan Sutanovac in 2010 to upgrade software to VMA 850,000 euros. That's even four times more expensive than that computer program cost. It wasn't you, Mr. Vulin, but Mr. Sutanovac, who ordered it, and they objected yesterday to the gentleman of the opposition for helicopters, to transport hay by helicopter for horses – State Auditor's report and one daily list, 7. 11. 2015, page 3. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Minister Alexander Vulin, the military minister, is 10. Three. In 2018, he said: “I want every parent to know that when they send a child to a high school or military academy, they will be educated living and working in accordance with the highest standards, they will have the best accommodations, the best food and the best professors.” And finally, gentlemen of the People's MPs, dear advancers, respected citizens of Serbia, we were exposed for two days in this high house to shameful verbal attacks by respected MPs from the former regime, only because we defended our people and our homeland when it was most difficult for them, when they persecuted us, when they bombed our country, killed our children, our wives and our old people, destroyed hospitals and RTS, schools, bridges, etc. And not only that, but they're accusing our country of war at a time when no one else is doing it but those who have broken it and our NATO dusters of domestics. Dear Vice President Arsic, I end up with two little quotes. I answer to the opposition gentlemen. First, May 3, 1999: "The most logical thing for NATO is to continue the war in the air, which is very effective. They destroyed the infrastructure in Serbia and in 10 days to two weeks it will be very difficult to live here, without water, without electricity, without bridges, communication. Milosevic will not be able to wage a war for more than 10 days or two to three weeks." It is an interview with the editor of the news of the Israeli face "Herc". The following quote, 9 May 1999: "Do not sign any agreements on the end of the bombing, because this allows Milosevic to be held in power." Complete quote, German newspaper "Rincaitung", 9 May 1999. And the following quote on May 3, 1999: "The most logical thing for NATO is to continue the war in the air, which is very effective. Yugoslavia must be bombed. Just keep bombing. They'll give in. “ Complete Quote, German newspaper “Der Spiegel ” No. 20, Mr. 1999, 17. 05. 1999. Mr. Vice President Arsic, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the People, I am a happy man that my President Alexander Vukic is not these words I quote. Gentlemen of the opposition benches, that's your party president, Zoran Djindjic, said. And it makes sense that you're accusing us yesterday, because you're following these thoughts, these treasonous thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34111	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. He's not here. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although without legal knowledge and wisdom, I will give myself the right to evaluate this law in a brief word. I'd say this is a law for people. And that's why he has an extraordinary reform dimension. And that is why we should be grateful that this law stands before us today in this congregation. My party friend, Mr. Markovic, reminded in his presentation yesterday of the great glory of the Serbian army after World War I, they call it world glory. And how did we get to that army? Where did such great glory come from? It's the reforms, the laws, what you're doing today in continuity. I will also dare you, gentlemen officers, even though you know it much better than I do, and in 1911, after the unfortunate Slivnica, there has been an army reform, there has been a new military doctrine. Of course, I do not have the authority to evaluate this military doctrine, but what I can say is the unanimous attitude of the MPs of that time in the National Assembly, who says: “We have experienced military service as a prison, and now a military call is eagerly expected. ” Now, this has brought about a reform that takes care of people, and its result has already been brought in 1912, perhaps in the greatest battle this nation has ever fought, ever participated in, in the Kumanov battle, battle over battles or battles over centuries. The Kumanov battle ended the Kosovo Battle after 520 years and finally a certain winner. The Kumanovska battle had the same preconditions as Kosovo -- Turkish power was greater in numbers, artillery, equipment, by tactics, by everything that usually wins the battle. But what's unreal became real. It is true that after the battle, Radomir Traveler received the rank of Duke and Zivojin Misic's rank as General. However, this battle was won, it was not won by tactics, nor by supreme command, it was won by soldiers, it was won by officers, it was given personal energy, the initiative of those who had two things in them – patriotism and courage. Patriotism and courage cannot be bought on the military market. It can't be introduced. Patriotism and courage are born, and you cultivate it in military schools and thus create a large and significant and invincible army, a world voice, according to my colleague Aca Markovic. There's something else I'd like to add. Here we have criticised one of the very important missions of the Serbian Army – the preservation of peace and participation in peacekeeping missions. Of course, the most disturbing thing is that the European path of Serbia appears in peace missions, i.e. policy of the European Union. It is perfectly legal and legitimate that there are political parties and political ideas in this House that are against the EU, it exists today in almost all European parliaments. But, you know, there's something I have to say about political, ideological consistency. When the most critical movement arose a few years ago and which criticised Serbia's European path yesterday, there was a lot of sympathy for the proclaimed ideas that spoke of patriotism, talked about Serbian tradition, about the Serbian family and which mainly found their ideology in the works of bishop Nikola Velimirovic. Why do I mention the bishop Nikola Velimirovic, and why is he so important when it comes to the Military Act? You know, the most difficult years may be for the Serbian army and the Serbian people, in 1916, by order of regent Aleksandra Nikolaj Velimirovic goes to the world's largest centre, to the largest empire then, goes to London, goes to Great Britain to seek help for Serbs. And there he gets honors like no Serb before him, and even after that, he hasn't won. He is given the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Serbian people at the cathedral of St. Luke in London, before representatives of the Crown, Lower and Upper Parliament, representatives of the spiritual and world government of the United Kingdom. Among other things, there was also the archbishop of the Cantaberi's greatest authority of the Anglican Church at all. There Vladika says the following words – we are Serbian thorns on the European rose, we are Serbs living fences of Europe and while Europe has been rich and developing, we have bled for it and we are doing it today. It is time for Europe to take us into its wing and pay us back. As you can see, neither Zoran Djindjic nor Aleksandar Vukic nor Aleksandar Vulin plotted the European path of Serbia in 1916 by Vladika Nikolaj and the accident of the Serb army and the Serb people. We're holding on that time, and you've replaced Mr. Vladika Nikolai with a bankruptcy manager, this beer yeast, and for now, the unaccompanied amateur athletic club of Coach Marijan Risticevic. That's how much it cost you Vladik and so much for ideological and political consistency at all. In the end, let me just say, we're all wise enough to know that it doesn't matter what we're talking about, but who's talking about it. I would be very unhappy and very concerned that today, Plenkovic's government, some NGOs, some MPs speak nicely to Minister Vulina, to praise him, to praise his intentions and his position. I'd be terribly concerned, and I wouldn't know which hands our army is in. However, since Mr. Vulin is such a muddy Plekovic, I will not say the Prostava government, but it is not far away, if he is dragged through the mud by MPs who are trying to get their hands on Plenkovic's government, then I am sure that this army and this Ministry are in the right hands and I don't need the law to vote for him, this is a sufficient fact for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34113	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Do you know about the meeting of North and South Korean leaders? Here, fellow Milojits, I hear you're talking, but I don't hear what you're talking about. I'm not going to listen to you, I'm going to listen to you about it. (Radoslav Milojic: Do you know that the Berlin Wall fell, you from the SNS? It's on your head, isn't it? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. He's not here. The word has a People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34114	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the quality in one society rests and ends in education. Education is exactly our most important project for the future. As we educate our officers and officers, such will be our army and defense system in the future. The illiterate people in the 21st century will not be those who can't read and write, but those who don't know how to learn, who don't know how to acquire new knowledge, who forget the inapplicable knowledge they learned during school. Education needs to start with an individual. The law on military education is an old legal solution that was passed since 1994 and we really need to change it and I really feel bad that we haven't done it before. By adopting this law, the Law on Military Education of the Republic of Serbia we will actually frame, round up one of the reforms that we started last year, reforms relating to our basic, secondary and higher education system by introducing dual education. So, by adopting the Law on Military Education, we're actually going to reform the entire education system in the Republic of Serbia. Gete still said not to make progress means to go back. If we don't want to go back as a society, if we really want to pair up the strongest armies in the world, if we want to make progress as a society, we need to reform our education system first of all and military education. Based on the results of a survey organised by the Ministry of Defence last year, it is during 2017 that the Republika Srpska Army is the most trusted institution. After that comes the Serbian Orthodox Church, then the police, the cadastre and the National Bank of Serbia. That's a really big result, and I really congratulate you on that, Minister Vulin, but that's the result that obliges you to move on, that we have to reform our army and that we really have to carry out all those entrusted tasks when it comes to the security sector and the defense system at all. What was the reputation in these previous decades, from 2000 to 2012? Well, in 2011, during Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, during Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, was the historic minimum of trust in the Republika Srpska Army. At that time, it was 37%, now it stands out, so last September, this research of yours was published, which is, indeed, a very high percentage of 57% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Army of the Republic of Serbia, recognised as an institution of the highest confidence. That's what the Army has shown on many occasions. In 2014, I'll remind you, she was with her people. I come from Rakovica, Rakovica was hit by floods next to Obrenovac and Capca. During just one night, the spill of Topcider River more than 250 households in my municipality, from the municipality where I come from, was left without a roof over my head. Co-ordinated action, one really good action by both the Ministry of Defence and our soldiers, our officers, our firefighters, we managed to save people's lives, to get water and medicine, to the most endangered of our population, and we succeeded together in coordinated action with both our citizens and our volunteers to prevent these negative consequences of this truly great monster that hit our country. The army of the Republic of Serbia actually exists because of its citizens and is always where it is needed. All these decades ago, all these years ago, our soldiers, our officers, our Serbian officers, were building water lines, crossing rivers, supplying food and medicine, saving people's lives in all parts of our Republic of Serbia. That is why it is not surprising that the military of the Republic of Serbia has a high reputation, but above all the great interest of our young men and girls to sign up and apply for military schools, military academy, voluntary military service, but also to work in the Army of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed changed since 2012 and newspapers have been introduced into the security system of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. You are indeed keeping an eye on the reports you delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia over the past year, indeed taking care to improve the material position of all members of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the Republic of Serbia. After fiscal consolidation, after the austerity measure, the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to increase its income by 10% for all members of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the Republic of Serbia and I remind it, a decision that began on January 1st of this year. You've continued to increase the daily rate from 800 dinars to 1100 dinars, for all those members of the Army who really do the hardest jobs. For all those people who work in troops, in barracks, in guard duties, and thus at least a little show that we thank them partly for everything they do to make us as citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel safer and safer. Also, for the first time you've introduced a newspaper, I really thank you for that, you've introduced solidarity aid at the birth of a child. That's great, net 47. Thousands of dinars, and that's all the good stuff. That's why we as SNS, as a coalition gathered around the SNS, are different from the previous ones. We differ from those who had, meaning, a historic minimum of trust in the Army of the Republic of Serbia, which was 37%, I repeat in 2011, who sold our tanks, our hoods, who beat the power of our military both in the country and abroad. I would now like to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our Supreme Commander, Alexander Vukic, has begun construction, housing for all members of the security sector. Indeed, there is a great need for apartments, both retired officers and senior officers, as well as for all other members of the security sector. I hope that this ambitious project will also be realized in the coming period. We'll follow that. The moment the housing issue is resolved by the members of our army, but also by future generations who want to be part of the Republic of Serbia's military system, we will actually have one more motive for them to get better and more engaged, another higher motive for them to become part of a large system. You also took care of the families of the soldiers. For the first time, you introduced 351 members of the Republika Srpska Army to spend seven days with their family in some of the facilities on Tara, Vrnjačka Banja and Morović, which is good. You really take care of every detail. In the end, I want to say two more things. First, Serbia has a really long military tradition. Since 1830, by Knez Mihajl Obrenovic, when the first Guard school opened in Pozarevec, indeed more than 160 years of long tradition, we have had the tradition of well-trained Serbian military leaders, top strategists, top tactics, of Radomer Putnik, Stepanović, Duke Živojin Misic, Petar Bojovic, but also of many others, who have shown how well-trained and motivated an older man's army of a small Serbia can be a bite for many powerful empires. It is they who are the best proof that military education is one of the key features in defending our country. Today's elders of the Republika Srpska Army really have someone to look up to, but they themselves must be some kind of inspiration to future generations that are standing in our country. In the end, it's really two things. We are also discussing international agreements today, the participation of our members of the Republika Srpska Army in peace operations and peace missions. The involvement of our army members in multinational operations is, above all, an important element of our foreign policy. During 2017, our military members, our women, ladies, around 12% of women participated in these missions, have indeed shown that they can contribute to the preservation of global world peace, European peace, regional peace and respect for all those principles of international law and international rules that apply in the developed world. Also, I am a member of the Committee on European Integration, and I often have to answer to my colleagues from the European Parliament or the representatives of the European Commission for the proportion of participation in various operations. Only during 2017 did our members participate in four EU-led missions and six UN-led missions. And, indeed, at the very end, the last sentence, the army, although it is a traditional institution, which, simply, sometimes, may not be heard to open up to new trends that are coming, opens its doors to more and more women in their ranks and today we really have ladies in military cocktails, who shoulder to shoulder with their colleagues, soldiers, officers, officers really carry out all the entrusted tasks. We have a lot of capable ladies and a great interest in girls and women in Serbia to be part of the Republic of Serbia's Army. In voting day, I call on all my fellow MPs, before all the MPs of the SNS, to support these truly good legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34115	Thank you. My friend Milojic, on what grounds, just tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34116	Based on the mention of DS President Dragan Sutanovac, from a previous colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34117	I'll give you your time, don't worry. As far as I know, Dragan Sutanovac resigned. (Radoslav Milojic): And when the president of Serbia submits... Technically... (Radoslav Milojic: It is the party's president until the election of a new one. Mr. Milojich, let me finish. I'll give you the right to a replica, it's no problem, and I'd like to explain it, so you don't have any dissatisfaction with colleagues who don't feel the same way you do. I will give you the right to a replica only for the reason that Mr. Sutanovac resigned after his election defeat. That means the responsible man was towards the DS. I wish he had half that responsibility to both the military and Serbia when he was a minister. Ask for a word for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34118	Mr. Arsic, number one, you have no right to discuss it from there. Read the Rules of Procedure at last. You've been in the Assembly for 20 years. Get down to the bench, answer the word, and feel free to discuss... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34119	I explained why I gave you the right to a replica. Nothing more. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34120	It's not, at least, correct and not in line with the Rules of Procedure, so that humor didn't go away this time. Yes, I agree with the previous speaker and colleague that the big difference between the former defence minister, the big difference, and the current defence minister, that is, Dragan Sutanovac and Alexander Vulin. Under number one, Mr. Sutanovac had serious and responsible associates. I don't mean members of the General Staff, officers and senior officers, these people are really serious right now, but those associates he chose himself, from civilians, his assistants and state secretaries, unlike Mr. Woolin. His assistant has a company called "Mena" that has been re-established in his name, "Meena 500", and, within the framework of it, he sells weapons directly from military factories abroad. I'm asking, is there some kind of abuse of official position, perhaps, or something else? As far as further differences are concerned, there is a very big difference, as Mr Sutanovac has provided 18 Lasta planes for Serbia's Army, 100 "Discovery" jeeps, sniper rifles, parachutes, built 5,000 troops' apartments, built the South military base, ended the Morava Airport. That's a big difference, while the current defence minister sent water cannons to the students. Of course, the character and work of Minister Dragan Sutanovac with the current minister, as no DS government minister can compare with SNS ministers, because I don't know which SNS minister is worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34121	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34122	Article 104, Mr. Arsic, has been injured because the DS has no president at the moment. Here, I just, a colleague helped me read the news on "N1", it's their exclusive television that don't come off every day, that Dragan Sutanovac resigned from the post of president of the DS on 11 March 2018. So DS doesn't have a president. If the DS doesn't have a president, that means you can't give anyone the right to a replica because he mentions Dragan Sutanovac. Dragan Sutanovac himself said in this statement to "N1" that he resigned as DS president, but that he remains in the party, or in the DS, but is not the president. Therefore, neither you can give Mr. Milojic nor anyone else the right to reply because he mentioned Dragan Sutanovac as the god-awful president of the DS. He's no longer president of the DS. I don't know who the president of the DS is, maybe Mr. Milojic knows, but at this point, the DS doesn't have a president and that's not DS. You can't talk about Dragan Sutanovac as former defence minister, who has ruined Serbia's Army, who is responsible for numerous financial malfeasances at the Ministry of Defence, who, by the way, at the Ministry of Defence, if you didn't know, are called "Suki Plasma", because when he became Minister of Defence in 2007 he then demanded that in a villa on Dedinj, which he received, in every room, including toilets and bathrooms, a plasma TV set be installed, and since then he was called "Suki Plasma". So, "Suki Plasma" is no longer the president of the DS, and on this basis you can't give anyone the right to a replica if they mention it. He's a member of the DS, he's not president, and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34123	I owe you an answer. So, as I understand it, the DS has an invisible president, Mr. Sutanovac was buying invisible planes... (Alexander Martinovic: But visible TV, very visible TV. Seen TVs. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Alexander Martinovic: No. No, no, no, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34124	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I am advocating Article 108 that it is the order of the session of the old President of the National Assembly, i.e. You and a member of 107th dignity that always gets hurt when someone from the SNS speaks. If you allow us to nickname people like that here, can we say "Vulin's aunt", can we call him that? Or "Vulin Camera"? We're talking about a million-euro affair that went missing while he was head of the KIM Office or about 300 and some thousand euros as Mr. Vulin said he got from his aunt, but be careful, not his aunts, but his wife's aunts. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34125	What does that have to do with Article 108? (Radoslav Milojic: Why did you interrupt me now? What does article 104 have to do with plasma? I'm glad they see what you're doing. Don't do it to your colleague Milojičić, you'll lose the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34126	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34127	I'm thanking you. Okay, the usual amount of hate we could expect from people who had nothing else to offer, who were punished by other voters in their native Glibovac by sending them away from that beautiful and congratulatory village, who, of course, did everything possible to make them so far away from any government in any city and village in Serbia, we can let them hate and enjoy it. You know, when you see such little people, in such a big way, hate each other, then you know you're doing a good thing. I'll only take this opportunity, and I'm sure the authorities will have something to say to Mr. Kenneth, Kenny, Kento, I'm not sure. (Radoslav Milojic: President, can you court the minister? ) So, let's say Mr. Sutanovac, the only defence minister, just so you know, the only defence minister in Serbia's history, and we've lasted a long time both as the military and as a state, who's forbidden to deal with security data, is banned because it's secure because it's dangerous because you don't know who your data will end up with. Here, there are gentlemen from the board of directors who will confirm that this is the case. So that's the difference between me and Mr. Shutanovec. I work for my country, and as you can see, the board of directors doesn't think he should be anywhere near classified and sensitive documents. As for the situation in the military, thank you for this unique opportunity to say that during this glorious government, tanks of T55 200 pieces, armored transporters M60 121 pieces, single tools of 77 pieces were destroyed. A total of 398. Artillery tool 215. Firearms and light weapons 23.132. Missiles 9M, 32M, "Strela 2M" 9.218. Lansera LM 9558 for ‘Strel 2M’ 420. In total, 33.383 pieces of different weapons were destroyed. Let me tell you, NATO managed to destroy the bombing of 11 tanks. This is where they destroyed us, they destroyed our 398. Also, let's take a look at what was invested in Serbia's Army. Capital weapons and military equipment from 2008 to 2012 totalling 55,932,000, from 2013 to 2018 210,759,967 euros, 3.7 times higher. During this glorious government, our equipment of uniforms has been increased by 3.3 times compared to this glorious government. Look how naked the Army was before we got three or three more uniforms. As for the boots, as barefoot as we were at the time of the people finishing the FBI courses, we increased the supply by 5.5 times. Look what our army was wearing then. Food. Just food, let me tell you, we've increased the supply of our reserves by 52%. Look at how much the Army had to eat at the time of this government. So, apart from the usual hatred, apart from the usual lies, we have a nice opportunity to speak the truth here in the language of numbers. These are inconclusive facts. These are the facts of the time when the word "what will the Army do to us" is quoted by the commander-in-chief, President Tadic, as saying this is the time when our official strategy was introduced that the army, a small army, will be ready to hold the first strike, and then a trained reserve will come, and at the same time you have abolished the Civil Defence Security Sector that needs to train your reserve. So, there's gonna be another blow, no one. It is the time of this army, and it will be a great pleasure for me to read to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, another very important detail that we have talked about here, and that is who has been expelled from the army, as they have banished these people. To tell you again in the language of numbers, in 2005, if you need service, in the Serbian Army, you know, if you need service, that's when or when you're doing someone a favor or when you want to send him away. So, if the service is needed in 2005, I'm going to tell you how much an officer has been expelled, and then an officer, first of all, of the warlords. So 1,188 officers were expelled as needed from the Serbian Army and 717 officers. In 2006, 1.155 officers and 722 sub-offices. To this day, we are recovering from so much banishment of people who were young, capable, and with extraordinary war experience. Now let me tell you how much this happened in 2012. If you need a job, five. This is an army he's not forced out of. This is an army that appreciates and acknowledges the merits of every fighter we have. Do you know what 2017 is? Two. Everything they could banish, they expelled, and in that very time you're talking about, what's left of 2008 and back here, they were banishing, if necessary, service in 2011, knowing that the end was 354 officers. In 2008, the U.S. 88, then 54, then 22, then 354, and when Alexander Wolfie came, two. Then when you listen here to talk about how they are, there's not enough filling of the Army. What's the Army's fullness? You have driven three or four thousand people, young people, people with war experience, and what example you have set for those who should come to this army and tell them – there will come some authority, and they will drive you out if you are only for your country. Instead of the hate language, I spoke the language of fact and I'm glad the citizens can see it. (Radoslav Milojic: I'm reporting for word.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34128	There is no basis for replication, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic): How not, mentioned? There is neither for you nor for another MP. The word is Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34129	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow Members of the People, I cannot remain silent on the sentence that we are the same. We can't be the same, and we'll never be the same, because they took from half-dead Serbia as with the corpse. But they must know that in history, in the future, therefore, in Serbia's history, it will never happen again. First, Serbia rose. Serbia is never stronger and you will never lead Serbia again. But I answered, first of all, to talk about today's set of laws, first of all about the Law of Military Education. The law on military education and today's set of laws are on the agenda, among other things, to bring about the necessary harmonisation of this law and this set of laws with the laws in the fields of the military, police and education. In this sense, the Law on Military Education is necessary to comply with the Law on Higher Education, as military education is a very, very important part of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. I will say my observations of the most significant parts of this law. It's, I'd say, a joint study program. The joint study programme for the military and civil sectors is very important for several reasons. The first reason, which is very important, is to get practical knowledge that will be universal, get diplomas that will be universal. In addition to this segment, therefore, to a joint programme, a study programme, I would say that the attitude towards cadets, i.e. towards persons, to students attending military schools, is a very important thing that is defined by this law. In fact, middle school students, they are provided with textbooks, school supplies, accommodation, nutrition, clothing, footwear, health care, transport costs and monthly receipts, and are regulated by law. For cadets, therefore, the rights and obligations of cadets shall be governed by the education agreement in accordance with the rules. In addition to these parts of the Military Education Act, I would like to highlight a few more segments concerning military medical education for the reason that I am a doctor and for the reason that I believe that this transfer of knowledge and the engagement of our lecturers who have had experience in so-called "doctors". war medicine and transfer, therefore, transfer that knowledge to our cadets and to our students of crucial importance for not only the military system, but for the country in general. In parallel with that, I'm going to say something about international peace missions, first of all, about the involvement of the sanity parts of our military system. In fact, participation in peacekeeping missions for each country is a commitment. That obligation is not explicit. So, the obligation is not in principle called state and it must participate, but for the state it is very good, very important, not only politically, but in every sense, to participate in peacekeeping missions. Why am I saying this? Because I am aware that the Sanitary troops of our armies participate in Chad, Liberia, the Ivory Coast, the Congo, and that they have excellent results, that they have indeed received the highest marks for their engagement. This is what our country must respect and I am convinced that the Ministry of Defense is doing everything for those people and members of the Army who participate in peacekeeping missions. Why does it matter to the VMA? It's important for two reasons, at least two. The first reason is because VMA in this way is practically promoted in the best possible way in the world. Another reason is because participants from the sanity teams get new experience, acquire new knowledge, and thus practically enrich their professional careers and knowledge. What I would also like to emphasise and praise and think that the Minister of Defence cares very well about, and that is, we need to understand one fact, our health workers in the military, our sanity, as they are otherwise called, as you call them in the army, have an extremely great reputation in the world. These sanitary workers, these health workers, what they were learning in the West theoretically, they applied in practice. Our medicine, military medicine is one of the best in the world, we have to respect it and therefore I ask that this aspect is properly implemented in educational programs and that our cadets, that our students in military schools learn everything our healthcare professionals have learned, unfortunately, in some circumstances that have not been very good. That's why I absolutely support this law, which I think is more than good. Once again, I wish you good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34130	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34131	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected ministers with their associates, will refer to the proposal for a law on the production and transport of arms and military equipment. I'll try to explain how important it is when you have a man who recognizes where to invest on the head of the state so that it can return to the republican budget. This year, Serbia-Southport-SDPR's defence industry has already contracted 405m US dollars worth of new exports, and old and already agreed businesses have a total of $687m. Serbia's defence industry is an important part of our economy, just as it is an important part of Serbia's Army. Thanks to this policy and thanks to the policy led by President Vukic as Prime Minister, when he first recognized the importance and importance of Serbia's defence industry, he provided state money to invest in the defence industry, today we have a branch of economy that is becoming more and more important and is bringing more and more resources. But it doesn't just bring in funds, it brings in new technologies, and it does, and it employs those that are the most educated and the youngest, actually the ones that we need most. Serbia's military as one of its priorities has the development of Serbia's defence industry, because thanks to its existence and its work, potentials for the possession of relevant defence systems, the production of modern weapons, as well as explosive devices, as well as anything needed at the highest possible cost, thus providing rationalisation and economical resources available to finance the area. The Republic government will continue to assist Serbia's defence industry, recognising its importance and its importance and by no means abandoning ownership in Serbia's defence industry. Laws on the agenda will allow the investor to invest up to 49% of the amount of money, bring market and technology to our premises, but control of Serbia's defence industry will keep the government of the Republic of Serbia for the simple reason that this is a strategic branch and something that is infinitely important for money, but also important for Serbia's Army. At the end of 2017, another contract was signed with the Serbian Army, which is important for both sides. It's about a zero series of 20 – 22 – 28, worth 109 million dinars. Serbia exported 1,215 billion dollars worth of weapons. Since the exports of arms and military equipment, Serbia has included a billion dollars over the last five years, and according to the opening of new companies and growth of the dedicated industry, the value of the exports of weapons from year to year will grow. Only in the period from 2016 to 2018 did the dedicated industry conclude contracts worth more than $900m, making it clear that the dedicated military industry is once again becoming a pillar of the Serbian economy. In recent years, we have recorded a significant growth in exports of the dedicated industry, and besides traditional markets, some new ones, such as Saudi Arabia, are opening up. Export growth has also been recorded, but there is also an increase in employees in this industry. From 2014 to April of the current year, we have 2,082 licenses issued worth over four billion dollars, while the realised number of contracts has crossed the amount of 1,215 billion. Most exports of small-caliber ammunition, artillery, mini-basins, as well as goods from civil and military programmes, such as hunting carats and revolvers, with the information that 185 registered arms export companies have been engaged in this area of manufacturing processes. The largest importer of Serbian weapons is the United States, Kenya, Bangladesh, Iraq, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Cameroon, United Arab Emirates, Jordan, Ghana, etc. At the top of the list of exporters are Jugoimport-SDPR, "First Partizan" from Užica and "Milan Blagojevic - intended" Luciani. So in the past five years, Serbia has exported weapons and military equipment worth $1.215 billion, and the military dedicated industry sector records the steady growth of the number of employees, as well as newly created arms export companies. The state invested 126m euros in the dedicated industry from 2014 to 2017, while only in 2017 invested 46m and is expected to exceed a billion euros in exports over the next five to six years. According to government announcements, defence industry factories will receive a direct investment injection of nearly 43m euros in the coming period. The value of the contracts for 2017 exceeded $900m, which is clear that the dedicated military industry is again becoming a pillar of the Serbian economy. Really, impressive data. By the way, the data is from the Department of Industry. I thank you for your attention and I wish all the best for our army of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34132	Thank you. Let's just see how much time there is left for the SNS parliamentary group. Fifty-four seconds for the government of Babic. Does Vlado Babic want it? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Sasa Radulovic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stoimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34133	I will try to conduct my discussion in the day when amendments are discussed. By the way, I'm grateful for these laws for one personal reason. You made me remember the time I was a pitomaniac at the Naval and Technical School Center in Pula and thank you for that. I hope that we will have a chance to talk even more and much more about the conditions of today's pytomatical education of all ranks, because from the time I was a pitomatist and when I was educated, much has been done for the progress of the education system in the military. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34134	Thank you. Dear MPs, I will work with caution, according to the article. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure, extend the work of the National Assembly today and after 18.00 hours, which does not mean there will be work. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34135	It's a little time. A few questions to ask and welcome to the gentleman of the Serbian army's officers. The story of neutrality. I have no doubt that all of us here in the O.R. think so, but I doubt if it's in our lives if our entire military structure and all the important military documents, the officers will know what documents, about three kinds of documents I'm talking about, from the time of the former government, are done by NATO standards. Does that have to be so, Mr. Minister, can that change? The second question - how many of our people have left the army after returning from security missions, all the missions that are under the auspices of the UN? Third question. I disagree with you, Mr. Minister. The capitalization up to 15%, but three daughter companies are made and there's one has 45% and then we send it to our daughter's company, and that's a good source of exports, and we don't have to touch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34136	Thank you. This concludes the list of speakers. Since there are no more speakers or time on the lists, then the word is either representatives of the parliamentary groups or empowered to use their rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34137	Thank you. Dear citizens, I have very little time, so I'll take advantage of what's left. When I was talking about these amendments and the additions to the law, I was talking about the essence of the problem and I'm going to end up very briefly. We have a serious army, serious officers and serious officers, but we have a minister who is not up to being their commander. We have serious BIA members, but we have a man with a highly suspicious biography, especially at the head of the Department of Defense who didn't deserve to be their boss. It's the result of a SNS government that's been humiliating what's being touched for six years. Just when we think they can't go any lower, they bring that step down. Seventy-two percent of the military members who left the Serbian Army did so on a personal request. The army was an institution with the highest confidence of citizens in it. Now the Army is an institution to escape from. I hope the citizens of Serbia still have confidence in our army. I ask Serbian citizens not to look through their commander, Alexander Vulin, who is also known for numerous affairs. It's not good all over the security system. We have here amendments and additions to the BIA Act. We have amendments and additions to the law where Bratislava Gasic puts enormous power without any control. He'll be the master of security services in general. He will determine who will be employed at the BIA, he will determine the pay and salary coefficient in general. He will even be able to undo the court's decision, and that is the essence of this law. I wouldn't really want to talk about affairs any more than one boss or another. and Minister of Defence and Minister of BIA. We just heard a series of lies from Mr. Alexander Woolin. Please, since he's so well informed, at least let him tell us – where did he get 300,000 euros to buy an apartment? We have established that he was not given this by his wife's aunt, so I ask him, since he is so well informed, that he also gives us this information about the company "Meena 500" run by his assistant Mr. Miloradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34138	You've wasted your time. I'm sorry you didn't talk about the laws. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bag, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34139	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, we have had the opportunity to hear a series of lies, as well as so far, which our fellow MP, Heineken, has been able to present, but were extremely interesting circumstances under which the Cypriot company "Vibap pharm ltd" appears as the owner of 4/10 of the same apartment with Mr Dragan Sutanovac and his wife, also a co-investor of the joint business and housing space that was built if, not on the most exclusive, then surely the most expensive pasture in Europe, paid a million and a half euros. It is suspected that it is something which is illegal and so much larger, if it is known that the director of the company "Vilab pharm ltd" at the time was Radomir Bzik, who was at the same time the owner of the company "Peyton medical", who during the ministerial term of Dragan Sutanovac sold drugs and sanitary material to the Ministry of Defence and the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance, thus earning more than 40 million dinars. 350 thousand euros. According to official data from the Public Procurement Authority, Peyton Medical has been awarded five times by a direct contract tender, and the value of the contract that was then concluded was 11 million dinars, while only three other contracts were worth as much as 25 million dinars. The Department of Defence of Peyton Medical Medicines, Pharmaceutical Solutions, Sanitary Material purchased once in 2008, four times in 2009, twice in 2010 and the last time in September 2011. For the sake of truth, Peyton Medical received two purchases for the needs of the Social Insurance Fund in 2010 and 2011, thus earning four million dinars. Whether there is a conflict of interest or something much more dangerous in this case, they should investigate competent institutions. Radoslav Milojic: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34140	Thank you, MP Milojic, for helping me conduct the session, but until the next election, you don't have that function. The word is made by MP Igor Becic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34141	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107, was injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. Here it was allowed to talk about the character and the work of former defence minister Mr. Sutanovac, a man who destroyed and destroyed the material resources of the Serbian Army, who destroyed the Serbian Army, but something else very important, a man who could not pass a security check, could not as a member of the Committee for Defence and Home Affairs to obtain a security certificate allowing him to see documents marked "State Secret". So, such a man here has been tried to justify himself and a man who, by destroying the resources of the Serbian Army, a man who has shown what he is minister of defense, would best not be mentioned in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34142	Ambassador, I think it's useful anything we've talked about and the former minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34143	Thank you. Your explanation does not have to be declared by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34144	Yeah. What you said, I was also president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the time and received the relevant document informing me that Dragan Sutanovac did not pass the security check and that we should consider whether he could be a member of the relevant committee. I'm a witness and it's problematic that he gets documentation, papers that... Radoslav Milojic throws it away. I'm sorry, you don't know everything about your former presidents. We're here to help you. So I know you were telling the truth. The remaining time still has Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34145	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I wanted a replica, if I could, since it was mentioned by the SNS in the most direct way. You know, when you're having affairs and I don't know what the man who ran the county business is saying, or was doing it through a football club, then it's all clear to you what kind of man it is. You can imagine running the municipality and managing its assets through a football club because all the other companies in that municipality were blocked because of such a great business. Just one thing, the most interesting thing is how they took care of the Army. For example, the House of the Army that crashed in the Smederjev Palace, otherwise they allegedly wanted to sell it to Delese. "Deleze" paid only 10%, never paid everything to the end, but on that plot where the House of the Army was, imagine they built a building and a residential building, where a short-time speaker is suspected to be one of the co-owners, but apparently, what's scariest -- through this House of the Army they destroyed, in fact, 16 million dinars were lost. The direct damage of 16 million dinars to Smederevska Palanka was. There's no army at home, and Mr. Milojic explained to us exactly how to handle it. This is more interesting, through the "Jasenica" football club. The "Jasenica" football club was best done through a party colleague, a certain Aleksandar Grujic Sotak. They used to draw money like they did for a footballer's food. Footballers paid at the club, not Manchester United to pay so many football players, and draw money in such a way as to manage the municipality, as all other businesses were blocked. Now that man comes dead cold in here and tells us about affairs. My people, to know Serbia's citizens, the Jasenica football club, his football players reportedly received money...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34146	Time. You asked for a replica, you exceeded your line time. I have to react. The MP has come to parliament. It's his right. He's neither dead nor cold. So I have to react here. He's here. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. This was a replica of your exposure. Since no one signed up for Article 96 anymore... Radoslav Milojic throws it away. )......................................................................................................... Let's wait for the stand-up comedy for a few minutes. Would you please let me run the session? I don't know if you served the Army, but good for you if you did? I guess one person runs a session, not all of them. (Radoslav Milojic: Unlike Minister Vulin, I served the Army in 2004. All right. A little patience, 'cause a colleague is totally lonely out there and let him say it. Let me see - who else and I pray to everyone no matter what MP groups they belong to, when I ask for a member to answer, not to guess if there's anyone else and that I call three, four times. I can't do this in a way that I can run a high-quality session in the Rules of Procedure. I'm just starting to finish something, and then they start calling. I've got a system in my system, and I'm asking everyone who's in Article 96 who has the remaining time to contact me right now. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34147	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will support the set of these laws. As far as the armies are concerned, I look forward to her as well as the economy of this country rises every day. The army always shares the fate of the state. The country we found was politically decapitated, economically devastated, militaryly powerless. Ministers, and here one mention, it didn't matter what the Army had, it mattered what they had. They didn't care if the Army existed at all. All they cared about was that there were public procurement. Dissolved politicians fired honorary officers, and while the army had less and less, they had more and more. Our army draws its strength from the peasant army. This army did not war for glory, but wars for its home, for its field, for its plums, for its homeland. She's always fought defensive wars. Such an army did not deserve to be led by a predator, a bearer, and similar to them. I also have to say that the fact that he didn't pass the security check, she probably did the B.I.A. Security check, and the B.I.A. isn't CIA. If the C.I.A. was doing a security check, the C.I.A., Mr. Seize, would certainly have passed that security check. If the check had been done by the bankers, he'd have passed the Heine Ken. They have jobs in common, home of JNA, building on Miljakovec, building on the pasture, this is an individual act by Mr. Grabin' Man. And that's why I believe this government, that this ministry, that this army will grow stronger every day. We have to be smart. We haven't solved our national interests once when we interfered with major conflicts. On the contrary, even when we were winning the big fight where we participated, we always won only a piece of victory, only part of victory. We got a country we didn't want, we got a memory of the Serb people, and when we lost, we got a complete defeat. So we must also look at the relationship of great forces and our interest and know that the great will never war in the interests of the small, that the great will always be at the expense of the small and that we will always be the change in the conflicts of the great. We also need to be aware of the following facts – at a time of nuclear giants, as Americans say – beautiful, smart, etc. Bombs, I don't agree with that, because the bombs that sow death can't be pretty or smart, but those who shot Hiroshima, Nagasaki, those who destroyed the Indians, they and their brothers English can think of it as nice, smart. The Serbian army and the sprawl MPs don't think there are beautiful, smart bombs because they're simply shot over the heads of civilians and civilians are the ones who get the most hurt, and we remember that well in NATO bombing. Unlike these over which we might have been nagging, I said – maybe, I don't think it's uranium vitamin. We need to make a good assessment of the situation. We used to be crazy brave. We should be brave, really brave, but not crazy. Unlike some times past, we must be courageous and wise. There's Napoleon's saying that at this point Serbia, and first I'm going to mention one – when the strength of whispers, the mouth can't shrub, and Napoleon's saying says – we have to be careful when we have to have the skin of a lion, when we have to take off and put on the skin of a fox. I'm a bit of a fan that at this point we need the fox skin more, that we have to be both wise and cunning, but not insanely brave. There's a saying that they don't think we're powerless, Sun Cua, that's the art of fighting without a fight. So you can beat your opponent, and that's the greatest skill, without the use of war funds. That's what we should agree on. But between Napoleon's sayings and the fox's skin, it should be said that sometimes something needs to be suffered. Even fake weakness, as Sun Cu says, and thus feed the arrogance of the opponent. At this point, it's obvious that there are some opponents in the region whose arrogance is fed, but we don't need to answer some crazy courage, but we need to be wise and we need to use that fox's skin well. Unlike the predecessors, we can't sell equipment. The peasant army knew that you couldn't just have plows, the labor force knew that you couldn't just have strings, that you had to have swords, that you had to have what plow and plow earn, the sword had to defend. You can't beat all the plows into swords or turn swords into plowshares. There's got to be both. Military technique in the era of joysting wars must be on the level. Our army, unlike those who sold everything in order, who sold tanks, transporters, weapons, to build apartments in the pastures, we must equip our army according to the country's economy. We need to raise the country's economy, but in parallel with the rise of the country's economy, we need to build the technical capacity of our army, we need them with the most modern weapons we can arm. I don't agree with Zivkovic that our planes don't fly. His air force isn't flying. His aviations were chickens in the village of Pukovac, which he sang with the yoghurt solution to take the peasants' money. It was his heavy air force. His light air force, I'll have to read it. It's a drug lord's plane. Drosophile is a wine fly. His easy aviation was wine flies. I can't agree with him. In the end, not to owe, what I want as a leader of the Peasant Party is what every farmer, every worker, every citizen of ours wants. We want our country to be strong, to have its economy strong, to have its army well armed, modernly armed, well equipped. We want our country to compete, to be the first in the Balkans, to come to European countries. We want what a good host wants for his country and for his citizens. We also invite these unfortunates, I won't tell the traitors, that the CIA's fault should be accepted by the BIA. We don't want to share with them at all costs. I invite them to the style, because the style is half a win. I invite them to think hard and get that foreign devil they're trying to work for off our doorstep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34148	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, five minutes and 19 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34149	Thank you. It is said: "Whoever stands on a hill is more visible than the one under the hill," the fantastic thought of the great bishop Rada, the greatest Serbian thinker in the "Gorski venjec", which, of course, is given to Queen Danilu in her own song. Now, that is why, by reading today's interview with the President of the Republic, and surely he is much more than we are on the hill, far better seen the situation we are in, by reading his interview I am quite concerned about the situation in which our country is located and all that is happening to us today with Croatia, with so-called. The state of Kosovo and politicians from there, of course, is the policy of some others who are pushing these politicians from these countries, that is, from the so-called States, to work against us. These pressures, as the situation in the Middle East fits, and especially here, will further adapt and we should be aware of that and let the public know. We're in a very difficult situation. But that's why you have to be as strong as possible and that's why our service and our army and our police have to be as strong and must be invested in you as possible. It's an honor, I'll repeat my first speech, work for our service, and it's a shame to work for someone else. So when I hear here, he was a CIA associate or I don't know who, so he moved on here in his career, we should be ashamed that they've made such progress, and top officers and former state security services, unfortunately, were kicked out of our service just because they were defending the country. We experienced it, I don't mean by those who are being tried today, there was a wicked world, but those honorable people who defended the country, and especially the army, who were top officers, it was only their fault that they fought against the NATO Pact, they were literally kicked out of service. Now, you see, that's why we should be ashamed, because today we get a good operative in the service or a top soldier and an officer, you have to invest a lot in it, and some of them have so easily given up these people. Well, we can't do that anymore. We can't afford that luxury. As much as we want peace and as much as we try to make peace, someone here obviously wants to set things right, and you have to stop it. You in the BIA are obliged to have top-notch analysts, first of all, excellent operatives who can recognize the problem. Of course, it's the only one who can handle you who can see the right situation and who can be accepted and how to be admitted. You don't think we're going to be drawing a contest in the paper about what kind of operative we're going to receive, so that would be out of our minds. So I want to take this opportunity once again, and you, Mr. Panic, correct me, although I know you can't do it here anyway, but you've always met us at the Committee's meetings in general. If we weren't lying, we've now had a paradoxical situation in our service, which I'm otherwise trying to get back to the State Security Service, because BIA is completely useless to me. They've turned you into some news agency, your operatives write a report there, they've basically tied your hands even if you arrest someone, and it'd be good for as many of those who run here, all kinds of agents, so you can arrest them, and that'd be good. But we had a paradoxical situation that the director of the BIA couldn't have been replaced by the Chief of Staff until this one gave him the consent to replace him. It was an abnormal situation. It's normal for you to pass a law like this now, to allow a man to do his job. Imagine now if, for example, in the Russian FSB, the director of the FSB couldn't change someone to himself until this one gave him consent, or the CIA, for example, to the American. Well, that's not normal. And today we have had such a situation in our service. I hope it never happens again. That's why you should vote for this bill, because it's something that's good, where you let BIA do its job. Of course, I hope you change your name. I don't like that any of that Security Information Agency. I'd like you to return, frankly, to the State Security Service, because it's your job to protect the security of this country. You're no agency, you're not a newspaper, you're not a Tanjug, or anything, you're a National Security Service, and that's what it should be called. These are very good laws, especially military ones. I have to tell you, since we've declared military neutrality, you're only here to protect the state, because only further pressures will be on us now, we no longer have a declaration, we have a legal obligation to protect military neutrality. So we must now and how to prepare ourselves for various temptations, and that is why the ministry and the army must strengthen us. Therefore, I call on everyone to vote for these laws, because they are just aimed at making our military, service and all other security systems stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34150	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34151	I would like to thank Mr Kosanić, Mr Bogdanovic, Mr Veljkovic, Mr Vukadinović, Mrs Stojkovic, Mr Krlic, Mr Ristic, Mr Atlagic, Mr Djukanovic, Mr Laketić and Mrs Kovacevic. These are all MPs who have made an effort, who have read these documents, who have not given in to the daily political needs, which have not rolled in hate, in lies. These are the messengers and messengers who have worked hard and responsibly for what the people here have chosen them for. They were checking the quality of the law ahead of them, checking the quality of legal solutions, and they were there to support their people, their army, their BIA, or to show what they thought they needed and that they could correct themselves. So I want to thank them and express my deepest respect. To all who rolled around in their hate and in their lies, to express a certain kind of understanding, because the weight of defeat they face usually causes just this sort of thing. But you know what our people say, a people who are neither the CIA people, nor the people of the FBI courses, but the Serbian people as they are, they say -- they're not being humiliated in defeat, but as you can see, they're not all able to master it. As for the objections we received here, the BIA Act needs to be urgently passed in order to relieve these people as soon as possible, i.e. amend them and supplement them. Me and I think that in the near future, when there's a time, when this first wound heals, maybe a new law should be passed. It's very interesting that those who didn't bring it in from 2008 to 2012, they didn't mind at all, and they did it all in regulations, but well, we're used to it. You know, and who's going to determine the systematization? Who? The NGO sector? Who's going to determine the systemization if they don't want the director of the BIA? Who will determine, at the end of the salary, systematisation and all, but will propose BIA director in their sector, and then the government will agree or disagree. I don't know what other solution is. I'd be interested to hear that second solution, who's going to do it, how different it's going to be. You know, it's also interesting, it's very interesting that those who carried out Serbia's 100% privatisation are now fiercely rebelling against the 49% capitalisation. What, they don't get here and they sell it and they do it, so now they're sorry it's gonna be this 49%, and I don't hear a single argument. As for Bratislava Gasic, a member of the SNS, I'm sorry, he is no longer a SNS official. The right to tell you, not only now, because DOS parties and the former regime have appointed exclusively their high party officials, and even worked parallelly, so the rules of the structure within the BIA that correspond directly to the president's cabinet, or directly to the people in charge of security in his cabinet, and not to the competent authorities, but also to ignore it, we will talk about it, there will be more opportunities, I can't understand why he is in a multi-party system in which citizens vote for political parties, shame or danger to be a member of a political party? I don't understand why the problem is that people who got the trust of the nation, who got it on lists that were worn and run by political parties, should therefore be punished and therefore have no right to deal with all the conditions under the law, there is a law that regulates how the BIA director is elected. Why is that a problem and what is the problem? Not a functioner, not an active official, only a member of a political party that has won the trust of Serbian citizens. In the multiparty system, that's how it works. In some other systems, if we could get to the carefree pluralism or whatever it's called, then we could probably do something different. Now we can't and now we don't. As for the individual laws that have also been mentioned here, let me tell you immediately that all powers of the Minister and Chief of Staff have remained the same. Some are introduced because we have new members, new laws, so you have to specify what is done and you have to give a whole new answer when you've already offered new questions, it can't be different. It's the same as before. Don't let it bother you, it's said in one place of the law – it moves and deploys. Why was that put in? It's not any new authority, but a military person has the possibility of five transfers, no more than that. Now, when you move a military face, say, from a barracks in Banjaca to a barracks in Zemun, that would be a transfer, there would be four more. No, now it changes and it's left to move when it's within the same space, the same garrison. So it's not a transfer, it's a transfer. That's why two words were put in. This is not any new authority, but also, these two words, that same authority is given to both the Minister and the Chief of Staff, of course, he in the military and the Minister in the Ministry of Defence. So it is strictly taken care of and kept in mind that in no way does this balance that is always balanced and taken into account. You have a lot of powers, only in members who were not there, or in institutes that were not there, so you have to explain them and you have to regulate them in a different way and do them. Also mentioned is gender equality, just so you know, in the Ministry of Defence and in the Serbian Army there are 20.50% of ladies. In the Army, 10.38%, and in the Ministry of Defense, again because of the nature of the job, which is quite logical 48.12%. Just so you know, it's, like, 4500 health workers in the Serbian Army, and they're mostly better-looking workers. Many, much larger armies do not have that kind of gender equality, and in peacekeeping missions 11.89% of all members of the better sex do their duty to the state of Serbia. Let me explain one more thing, and we'll explain to you another time, the Mena, which was mentioned here is MENA 500, it's an organisational unit within the SDPR. Otherwise, this word MENA means “middle East and Africa”. It's for projects related to the markets of the Middle East and Africa. So no one's private property, but it doesn't matter. It's enough to get along with something so let's talk about it, let's talk about it. Once again, I would like to thank all of these MPs and MPs, to thank them for their patience and their tenacity, to express hope that the continuation of our sessions will be marked by good suggestions and love for their country, and less by fits of anger, hatred and anger over numerous defeats in numerous elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-27-0.u34152	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 13 of the agenda. We also have the 14th point – Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm asking MP groups, if they want to discuss it, if they haven't submitted by now, to apply immediately. According to Article 92(3), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposal's representative want the word? He's not here. Thank you. Since no one has applied for a discussion, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed a single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 1, 2 and 14 of the agenda and the draft law on the approval of international contracts referred to in points 10 to 13 of the agenda, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure, according to which the President of the National Assembly may set a date for voting on a proposal for a single law or decision, immediately after the finalisation of the draft law or decision. In accordance with this provision, I determine Friday, 27 April 2018, starting at 15.00 hours as the day for voting on the motions for decisions and the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of this session. I now set a break and a vote at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search into the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in the multinational operations of 2018, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a decision in principle. We move to a decision on the tabled amendment to Chapter I of point 1.1, 1.2, 1.5 and 1.12, Chapter II. Points 1, 2, 5 and 12, Chapter III. Points 1, 2 and 5 and Chapter IV Point 1, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have concluded our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the draft decision in general and I am voting on the proposal for a decision to adopt the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in the multinational operations of 2018 as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2018. I am putting the motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in principle in 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – two, voted seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a decision in principle. We're moving on to the amendment. At point I of subpoint 1.1, 1.2, 1.5 and 1.12, the amendment was submitted jointly by Djordje Vukadinović and Slavisa Ristic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – one, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2018, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2018. We're moving on to the 10th agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel concerning military, defence and defence-industry co-operation, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted seven MPs for – 135. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill for the majority of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece on Co-operation under the Athens Multinational Strategic and Maritime Coordination Centre (‘AMSC’), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill for the majority of all MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Republika Srpska on co-operation in the field of aviation, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 139, no three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill for the majority of all MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, voted eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill for the majority of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted six MPs for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill for the majority of all MPs. Thank you. We will continue to work and discuss the amendments, on Thursday, May 3rd at 10.00 p.m., and by then we will take the system to repair, and it will take us a few days to fix everything, so that we no longer fear whether we can work or can't work. Thank you.
