ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-0.u42419	Dear People's MPs, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 18th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I called this special session to address the National Assembly of Njeg's Excellency Mr. Demetris Siluris, president of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly, His Excellency, Mr Demetris Siluris. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the delegation of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus and the representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia, who attend today's session. Now I ask His Excellency, Mr. Demetris Siluris, to address us. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-0.u42420	Thank you very much. Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the respected members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, for me is a special honor and an exceptional privilege to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I send you warm greetings of love, honor and deep respect from the Cypriot people and all members of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus. My coming here represents the realization of my desire to contribute in every way to strengthening our exceptional relations, brotherly relations that go back to the time of Yugoslavia and the Movement of Unclassified. With Serbia, we share deep-rooted historical, cultural and religious ties that are further strengthened by our shared commitment to the principles of democracy, justice and peace. The very important strategic position of our two countries in the Mediterranean and the Balkans makes them a dichronic factor of development at the key points of European and world history. My presence in Belgrade confirms an exceptional level of relations and creative dialogue that has been established in a wide range of important issues. I am sure that this visit will further strengthen our parliamentary co-operation and I hope that together we will lay the foundations for an even more fruitful development of our countries' relations in all areas and for the benefit of our peoples. The Republika Srpska House of Representatives supports Serbia's European path, and I particularly welcome the progress Serbia has made as part of its accession negotiations and expects to continue the process by opening and closing new chapters, as is the conclusions of the June 2018 European Council. We know that this pre-integration period is a long and painful process, but given the significant progress made by the proud people and the leadership of Serbia, I am convinced that by very fast intensifying the pace of your country's reforms will become part of the European Union. For Cyprus, Serbia's accession to the Union is a precondition for strengthening stability in the Balkans, which is inextricably linked to security and stability throughout Europe. We support this position in the institutions of the European Union. In this context, you will always have an honest, unselfish and permanent ambassador who sincerely believes that Serbia's future cannot be different than Europeans. I repeat the readiness of the House of Representatives to share with Serbia the expertise he has gained on issues of harmonisation with European fluids. We're at your disposal at every level. I also want to assure you that your country can rely equally on our strong support for respect for its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Non-recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence is a consistent stance of the Republic of Cyprus and its historical debt. As a result, she suffered and suffered still our country, and the legal basis for resolving the Kosovo status issue is UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 1999. As long as this resolution is in force and in absentia to reach a mutually acceptable solution to the status of the territory, the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence remains illegal. Cyprus, 44 years after Turkey's military invasion, struggles to restore justice, freedom and return to the country's hearth, transporting tirelessly in all directions that our goal remains to achieve a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem based on relevant UN Security Council resolutions and European fluids, for a solution without anachronistic guarantees, without occupation troops and addiction relations, for a solution that will make Cyprus a modern, normal, sustainable and functional state. Our efforts, however, run into an obstacle, which is Turkey which maintains a rigid and maximumist stance and whose provocations are increasing dangerously, not only to the damage of Cyprus, but also to the wider region. Turkey is using the Turkish Cypriot community, which is fully controlled both politically and economically, as an excuse to justify its presence in Cyprus. Since recently, contrary to international law in general, and in particular to the Law on the Sea, he has been interventions in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Cyprus and is creating an atmosphere of intimidation, trying to love diplomacy with "arms" to prevent the implementation of Cyprus's energy plans, threatening peace and stability in the region. Let me also express my public deep gratitude for the full and uninterrupted support and support of Serbia's sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and unity of the Republic of Cyprus, as well as the efforts we put into a fair and peaceful solution to our national problem. Thank you very much, thank you very much. Thank you. I would make a failure if I also did not express deep respect and recognition for Cyprus's contribution to the Serb people through the presence of a Serbian contingent in a UN peacekeeping mission in Cyprus. Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am deeply grateful for the invitation, and especially for the honor shown to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with this speech I send warm greetings to the Cypriot people to our Serbian brothers. Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-0.u42421	I thank His Excellency for the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Demetris Siluris, for his address. I conclude the 18th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Also notice that we will continue the debate on amendments at 2.30 p.m. Now we have a regular break. Thank you.
