ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41287	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Chairman, in accordance with the amendments I have tabled to Article 1 and Article 2 of the amendment to Article 3. I remind you that I have suggested that in Article 1, which determines the very content of the law behind words - of importance for protection, the word is added - and the setting. Accordingly, the proposed amendment to Article 3, which says that behind the words - the proposal to edit the war memorials, is added a sign of interpretation, i.e. a point and a word - setting. I thank my colleague, stuck, to whom it suits, it's the same thing. Therefore, the reason for the adoption of this amendment has already been explained by the fact that from the very basic members of the law at the beginning of the law it is not clear what is only in Article 19, when it comes to this law, which is that other than the memorials that already exist, which are built, monuments, military cemeteries, and everything that this law covers, can be set up, or built new monuments, new monuments, or in terms of legal text, set up or built new memorials. For this reason, in order to be quite clear and to make it fully adequate and easier to apply Chapter 4, which speaks of the arrangement and removal of war memorials, in particular Articles 18 and 19, is exactly the basic reason why the amendment to Article 3, and these first three amendments are indeed in line with this law. I think their adoption can only contribute to a better and more precise understanding and application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41288	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41289	Thank you. Dear Minister, dear fellow MPs, at the beginning of today's debate, I would like to quote the famous Duke of Živojin Mišic: "The wars have ended and our battles are still going on. These battles have made us like rocks strong, just never stand, always go forward. “ His words must not be forgotten, but we must also raise future generations so that our greats and our heroes must not leave to history, but to remember again through war memorials that we will maintain as the greatest sanctity. There are about 40 fortresses in Serbia and many monuments to be restored, maintained, memorial complexes, because their significance is cultural, historical, military and political. Serbia did not forget doctor Els Inglis who led the sanitary mission of Scottish women, who were treated by warriors and patients in World War I. The soldiers of the Moravia Division have erected a monument of the Church in Mladenov each 15 September where ambassadors of Canada, Belgium, the United Kingdom come to honor this brave woman. Last time the tap was restored in 1985. The current government of the SNS is awaiting approval of the Institute for the Protection of Monuments to arrange the memorial park, and on the lower side is for Bajdzakova Street, for which there has been a project for more than 10 years, but the realization has waited for SNS to build it. In addition to language, letters, history, the size of a country certainly refers to fallen fighters and memorials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41290	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am fully aware that monuments, especially the injured fighters campers, are being held at the expense of the state, but we must learn something from these monuments. While we fought most of the war for others, we lost, others won. The great forces were at the expense of the little ones. They always thought that after our victories, where we were getting a piece of victory, they could come with us and without us, the memories abroad were mostly memorialized by peasants with blistering hands who temporarily left the plow and fought for their country, for their field and sacrificed themselves. Today we need to earn, to maintain a drink towards the fallen generations ahead of us, but thanks to these casualties, our villages today are empty. Serbia has been transformed into a collection of smaller and larger nursing homes. So I think that by developing agriculture and villages, we should cultivate these monuments, but also in future care villages, leave the current number of inhabitants in the country, if we cannot increase it, rejuvenate the village and thus satisfy the past and future generations. We borrowed this land from our ancestors, and we are obliged to give it to future generations in a better condition than we got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41292	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41293	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, these days we've been talking about 6,000 memories of which we'll worry about in the future. Those 6,000 memorials are actually evidence of a major injury throughout history. They say history is a teacher of life. I hope these memorials teach us all to take more care of life in the future, to protect and protect our nation. He said well the other day, when he was talking about this law – how many million of us today would have been more if we hadn't been so hurt. It is indeed a question that we must ask ourselves every day and it is good that this country, the policy it is leading today, and which, hopefully, will take care of in the future, primarily of life, of living people, of their future and of creating an environment for decent life in Serbia. I'm glad there's a minister here today who, above all, deals with demographic policy in Serbia. As I said yesterday and the day before, living people, descendants we will create and give birth to in Serbia, are the best memory of all those who have died through history defending our people and our freedom. Therefore, full support for all the efforts you are making and will be invested by the Government in the future, that more children are born in Serbia, that we are being restored as a people, because in this way we will provide a historical memory of our ancestors and our victims and in the centuries ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41294	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41295	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to be in Article 3. The draft law adds Article 2 to further define Article 3 of this Act. Article 3 defines the education of councils to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, to give an opinion on the proposal to edit the war memorial and remove the war memorial. An important newspaper in this bill is the establishment of the ministry's competence to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, to give consent to the rise of a new war memorial. It is also important to define elements when a new war memorial is not allowed. Such a regulated system will contribute to improving respect for human rights, national and religious feelings, traditions, as well as improving Serbia's tourist offer. I welcome the provision defining the keeping of mandatory records of war memorials in the country and abroad. It is our duty to protect our cultural heritage and this law is going that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41296	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lakatoš, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41297	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with an associate, distinguished fellow MPs, Serbia proudly remembers all the heroes who have laid down their lives for the freedom and freedom of our country. It's part of our history that we keep, that we learn about during school, the history we're proud of and pass it on to younger generations. The proposed law on war memorials defines the competences of both local self-government and the Republic of Serbia to maintain war memorials for their resolution, as well as the creation of conditions for the protection of cultural heritage related to wartimes. In Stari Pazova, a monument was placed to the folk hero of World War II, Janko Čmelik, a member of the Slovak national minority, whose name is proudly worn by many institutions in Stari Pazova, who, along with Serbian heroes, participated in the Liberation War. There are many memorials on Serbia's territory that symbolise a period of history and that do not allow all the sacrifices that life has given in many Liberation Wars that have affected our country. All these memorials should be classified in Serbia's tourist offer and as a mandatory part of school trips to point to our young generations' history, which is part of our cultural heritage and symbolises the peoples who live in our country's territory. We are taught the historical facts of the obligation to build a pro-European state with common forces to take care of each family, each individual, but also not forgetting our ancestors who have written our history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41298	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Granny, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41299	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Minister, we have before us a law on war memorials, which has been proposed with the aim of regulating and harmonising this area with the established principles of modern civil society, with respect for the highest degree of human rights. This law regulates a system that will bring uniform application to units of local self-government, which, as I have already pointed out, will contribute to a high degree of respect for human rights, national and religious feelings and public morality. The organised war memorials, as an important segment of Serbia's total cultural heritage, are thus dedicated to a part of a more quality and attractive tourist offer, which will contribute to the overall planned development of the Republic of Serbia. This law clearly defines the responsibilities of local self-government, as responsibility is being strengthened in the preservation and protection of our cultural heritage, which is our obligation to approach with special attention always, in every situation and in every place. The attitude towards cultural historical heritage and war memorials, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has expressed since 2012, so to this day, gives us the belief that we will succeed on the path of overall renaissance and planned development, as well as at raising the sense of patriotism and pride to our bright tradition of free wars that the Serbian people, free to say, not by their own free will, have led through history. We are obliged to place a special accent on our health system, which, in fact, is now constantly in the function of our people in both war and peacetime conditions. The general assessment is that reforms, launched in 2012, have already produced some results and that Serbia is heading towards development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41300	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, the draft law on war memorials defines the jurisdiction of local self-government and the ministry of care for the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars in the area of war memorial protection. The strengthening, accountability, rationality and efficiency of the local self-government unit are being established, the necessary conditions are being created to protect our cultural heritage related to wartimes. Powered, efficient and responsible local self-governments, as they have become since taking responsibility for them today by SNS people, will successfully implement programmes of regular maintenance of war memorials and will not allow places of suffering and public markings to be forgotten and abandoned places, not to maintain them, and in particular they will not allow anyone to destroy and destroy them. For 16 years in the municipality of Novi Knezevic, the site of death, the place of execution of nine young people from the Serb Krstura, performed on Orthodox Christmas, on January 9, 1942, who were shot by fascists, was left to the teeth of time and vandal behaviour of unconscious citizens. Representatives of the former local government, those who thought history began with them, have not visited any of the sites. Today this place is arranged and is held regularly. Citizens visit him daily and remind us of the terrible crimes of that time. The government of the Republic of Serbia is doing everything possible to improve the lives of our citizens daily, continuing to implement reforms in 2012, aimed at making Serbia a developed country in which citizens will live peacefully and peacefully. In the election day, SNS MPs will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41302	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Repac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministerial, respected colleagues, Article 3 of this law educates a council on the cultivation of Serbia's tradition of free wars to give an opinion on a proposal to edit war memorials. The council has seven members, appointed by the minister responsible for the affairs of fostering the tradition of free wars. When we talk about fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, I can't without talking about World War I where the lives of 300,000 Serbs have been lost. Serbia paid dearly for the big win in World War I, lost one third of the population, 60% of the male population. The material damage was estimated in Versailles at a peace conference, it considered that it was half of its national property at the time. In the first and second world wars and wars of the 1990s, we lost the greatest wealth – human resources. It's a big googogue of World War I. In World War II -- great atrocities against Serbs by NDH. About 900 to millions and 200,000 Serbs are believed to have been killed. Unremembered atrocities have been made. I wonder if the human mind can imagine something like that, not do it? Sufferings were the largest of Serbs and Serbian lives, so that the World War II memorials at the premises of the former SFRY were about 15,000 monuments in various sights. The victory of the Serbian Progressive Party and Alexander Vukic returns the Republic of Serbia to the world, no matter how we understand them, as they do us or us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41304	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41305	Thank you, Chairman. It is very important that we cultivate tradition for the future of our generations by maintaining and editing war memorials. One of the most important is the Memorial Complex project to preserve the cultural and historical values of Cera. The church battle is one of the greatest victories of the Serbian people in history. It's been over a century since then. It is time to live for Serbia, and from the land worth sacrificing for, we have made a land worth living for. We also have an obligation and a duty to do the same as the soldiers fought for Serbia over 100 years ago and died for it, we are now working for Serbia and building. We must understand that we and our generations are bound to give at least a part of what those who gave her everything and repay them in a way that makes Serbia a safe, stable and modern state. The Serbian army, under the command of Duke Stepanovic, won one of the greatest victories in Serbian history, and in Cer, Serbia found its pride, gained its name defending itself and its freedom. And that is why we have a duty to continue working for Serbia and not to allow anything else to happen on our soil to a safe, modern and successful Serbia, which remembers its history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41306	Thank you. The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Janjusevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41307	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, cultural heritage as a resource is very important, because in it we have a large amount of knowledge accumulated over the previous decades and centuries, knowledge, skills and information that we need and important for our culture, education, economy, tourism. It certainly doesn't contribute, and our economy doesn't contribute to those who say we've lost all wars, that in all wars we've been defeated, because from an angle the size of our enemies through our history they went to destroy us and not to defeat us. And that's why we've never lost a war, because we exist. Certainly the economy, and regarding cultural heritage, does not contribute to this data, and comes from Zlatibor, from where Milan Stamatovic teaches a lesson about honesty, about Serbia, about tradition and all values. When you go to the "Geo Serbia" portal and find a place where the bones of Serb victims from World War II, plot 4624/1, and then on the website of the Republic Geodesy Institute, type in the number of the plot, you see that it is mortgaged. So, the site where the bones of Serb victims from World War II are resting is mortgaged, along with hectares of the surrounding country, intended for credit for the purchase of the disputed gondola in Zlatibor. And that is just one example of those who lecture us on how to preserve Kosovo, what a future. So how do we live to expect something good from those who mortgage the dead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41308	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41309	Thank you, Chairman. What our people need to pass on to the world is that Serbia is a small and proud country, with a great soul, and future generations should safeguard and cherish their history. By realising this law, we follow the course that our government is taking us to, and that will give us the opportunity to develop, to work, to build and grow. The Municipality of Grocka, where I live, has huge tourist potential because it is located along the Danube River, a large number of cultural heritage, including the most famous Vincan site, but it is less known that one of the most important battles for the release of Belgrade was fought in October 1944. Here is a monumental skeleton where Soviet and Serb fighters who died in World War II in the fight against fascist Germany are buried. Although the municipality of Grocka only with the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party has been intensively starting to develop tourism, and there is still much investment needed to meet the needs of the guests who visit it, for this short time in our tourist offers there is a whole range of different events and a tour of cultural heritage, so that Grocka has its place in Serbia's tourist destinations. All of this affected the development of rural tourism and the entire municipality's efforts towards accelerated economic development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41310	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Studenka Kovacevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41311	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the cultivation of tradition, I'm afraid that in modern society there are fewer and fewer who are willing to cultivate it, so maybe it's a good time for this area to be settled and to know clearly the duties. In Timočko region, tradition never gave up, and the symbol of preserving cultural identity is certainly Negotin, which is filled with history. Negotin is the town of Hajduk Veljko Petrovic, a hero of the First Serbian Uprising whose features can be found at any second step. In the centre is his monument, as well as his museum, which thematically shows details of his life, and which, at that time, the Negotins fought against the Turks. The personal courage and heroism of Veljko Petrovic are seen in his famous sentence – I give my head, I do not give Krajina. He died defending the Krajina of the Turks. Grob hiduk Veljko Petrovic is located in the old church of the birth of the Holy Mother. His name in Negotina is carried by schools and restaurants, even some drinks and food. She's so proud of her hero. In addition to all mentioned, Negotin is also the center of the creation of Stevan Stojanović Mokranjc, a famous composer where he was born, and his house has also been turned into a museum. I repeat, Negotin is full of history and is often visited by tourists. I believe there are no children in Krajina who do not know who Hajduk Veljko Petrovic was, and this is exactly what has contributed to the attitude of the people of Negotina towards local memorials. This example should be followed by many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41312	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jolovich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41313	Thank you, Chairman. Respected minister, education of the council for the cultivation of Serbia's Liberation Wars to give an opinion on a proposal to edit war memorials and remove war memorials, provides for the development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as better access to economic resources. Namely, the main task of the council members is to implement the rules of this law well, as well as to ensure the care of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, the improvement of the tourist potential of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the expansion of cultural monuments and other significant places and areas that remain remembered as the foothold of the Serb people's greater struggle for peace and stability of their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41314	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Council for the Breeding tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars has been given the honour to deal with a high-level war memorial mission, so that the opinion on the proposal to edit the war memorial or remove the war memorial. In this way, people most competent in the proper profession best contribute to the cultivation of the tradition of the Liberation Wars and the protection of war memorials. In this way we fulfill the obligation to be honorable descendants, to be worthy of our glorious history. Serbia will always remember where we were, where our ancestors and our allies laid down their lives for our freedom and for what, to leave those memories for future generations in eternal memory. We must be aware of the value of our history and the sacrifices we have given and given to our allies so that we can objectively build our future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41316	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41317	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by adopting the bill, another attempt to revive the memory of participants of crucial battles and battles in Serbian history. It is also part of the wealth of the material and cultural heritage that we inherit. A reminder of these memorials, it is a kind of honor in the wider domestic public to suffer Serb military members in wars to defend and free the country. A whole series of significant historical sources bear witness to the establishment of a kind of cult of warriors who selflessly sacrifice their lives for the benefit of the community, its freedom and its defense against the enemy. Localities in direct connection with crucial historical events, or armed conflicts, as well as places of death, i.e. the funeral of warriors and warlords who pointed out their heroism, martial arts, or sacrifice for a higher purpose, eventually gained meaning as cultural, historical, or ideologically important places. The wars for Serbia's release represent a special, significant and unusually interesting phenomenon of national history that has contributed to a series of military memorials that are located not only in Serbia's territory, but also in the area of a larger number of other states. By adopting such a law, Serbia, on the one hand, honours its brave individuals, and on the other hand, unequivocally demonstrates the degree of its overall development. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41318	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41319	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I will invite all Members of the People to support the proposed law that we have already passed after 40 years, perhaps for the first time. I'll explain why. In view of the changes in the territory of the former SFRY, we believe that this law is mandatory and necessary. I'll explain why. For the first time, this law defines one of the provisions, and I will single out one. It's a united base of victims back in the Balkan wars. We will give an example of how this could be defined, and the example is from a local self-government unit in Belgrade. The Belgrade City Institute for Monuments and Culture has conducted a 3-D laser scan of all cultural monuments and can at any time present what to tourists, what to Serbian citizens in electronic form. In this way, I believe that war memorials could also enter the way of digitisation, so that as a state, they could present both to citizens and tourists and to the whole world the way our citizens fought for Serbia's freedom. What I would like to point out and call on all MPs in the voting day to support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41320	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Stanja Compirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41321	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, the Law on War Memoriales creates the necessary conditions for the protection of our cultural heritage, related to wartime periods, the arrangement and maintenance of war memorials, the tradition of future generations, because besides the language, letters, history, customs and beliefs, the immutable cultural heritage is one of the important aspects of the nation. The law stipulates that a Council is being educated to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. The council will appoint a minister and will decide to edit and remove war memorials. Serbia remembers its heroes, preserves its tradition and regulates this area shows its respect for the victims and the fallen fighters and for all those who have lost their lives in armed conflicts. My amendment to Article 3. The draft law on war memorials is heading towards Serbia's overall development, because we are developing our society through tradition, but we never forget those who gave their lives for freedom. That is why I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support this law in the voting day, as well as the other set of laws passed by the Ministry of Fight and Social Affairs, which lie ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41322	By amendment, MP Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41323	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague invited us to support the day of the bill's vote. She did not invite us to support her amendment, which, by the way, was falsely presented, since she said that her amendment was going towards the work of this Council to cultivate tradition and never forget those who gave their lives for this country. However, the colleague submitted an amendment, which reads that education by the Council provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the improvement of the judiciary. My colleagues and colleagues, our colleague Compirovic believes that her amendment, which does not ask MPs to support, will allow the Council, which will take care of war memorials, to ensure that the judiciary is improved. Of course, it is clear that colleagues from the SNS are not ashamed to submit these amendments on several occasions. In the end, by explaining these amendments, they have been showing that they are not ashamed to insult victims in this way, insult their families, insult their sacrifice, insult their courage, insult all that these people have done for this country. But I think it's clear to the citizens what's going on in this assembly. There are laws over which you can do this play of yours. It's not legitimate, but it's legal. For this law, dear colleagues, it's a shame what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41324	According to the Rules of Procedure, Serbian MP Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41325	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advocating an injured member of 107 who says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It is evident that members of the DS do not respect the dignity of the National Assembly, but do not respect the dignity of their people and that is normal when we know that all they have left behind are memorials, robberies, humiliations and insults to the citizens of Serbia, for example, in the form of Hetherland, in the form of a replica of clothed terraces, such as "the city's watch". How many million were paid, my colleague Markovic? All the closed factories, all the 400,000 jobs that have been shut down, all of which have been remembered by the sorrows, sorrows and misery left by the DS to the Serbian citizens, and on that behalf I urge you to sanction such violations and cases represented by the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41326	My colleague Filipovic, I do not think there has been a breach of the said Rules of Procedure. You're not asking to vote. Okay. Right to replica, first Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41327	Thank you. I would like to say that the MPs of the SNS have submitted very meaningful amendments, and those who did not understand until 2012 and who exercised power, that all segments of society are connected, have led Serbia and its citizens to the ambience. Whether our amendments are meaningful and whether they have something to do with representatives of the yellow company, their remains, which only through judicial reform, have made direct compensation to 15,000,000 euros in Serbian citizens. Of course, in order to bring down the country, except for the robbery privatisations, they went one step further, so they brought down the judicial system. They led the state to the bottom. We have risen from that bottom, and it is a shame that those who have destroyed the state, destroyed the judiciary, today are holding sermons to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41328	By amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41329	Thank you very much. In principle, this law was good and there was a need for its adoption. Of course, there are many areas in the life of a single country, one society that needs to be defined by law, and this topic was, in practice, without a clear definition. But the problem is that even such a solid law has led to senseless intervention by colleagues from the ruling benches, and these are these pointless amendments where this law connects to the improvement of the situation in the judiciary, agriculture, cultural development, ecology, and I don't know what it's all about. I understand the need for obstruction, I understand the need to sometimes show strength in such a way, but then at least make some more effort, and then write amendments that at least make any sense. These completely pointless amendments, with the hardly read bad texts, which someone has shared with their colleagues, question whether it makes sense to vote for a law, which, I say, is in principle well-set. This debate has also been used to celebrate some time since 2012, as if there had been nothing before, as if before, some who are now participating in power had not been part of some previous government, say, in the power of the 1990s when history was created, when some wars entered without reason, and were lost, at the same time that great atrocities were committed to their own citizens, towards the citizens of Serbia. Complete undoing anything anyone else has done. Here, let me say, not in my defense, but in informing my colleagues and the public. I can be fully proud of the role of some people from my family in the near history of Serbia, in Serbia's modern history. One grandfather was a participant of World War I, the father was a wartime military invalid from the Sremski front, an unsuspecting uncle, after being killed before my birth, was killed in 1945, of course, on the right side, somewhere on the Kozara, as one of the couriers of that brigade's commanders. I, by chance, had to wear a uniform as president of the National Assembly of Nis because on that day and those months, the city was bombed and for my relationship with the situation, I received a thank-you note for the patriotic contribution to the fight against the aggression of the NATO Pact, and the city of Nis, which I then led, received a large charter from the Yugoslav Army, then, for the same action. At the time, while I was in charge of the town of Nis, all historical monuments had been restored that had anything to do with the history of the city or the history of Serbia. In 1999, somewhere in the second half, the first monument to the victims of NATO aggression was built up by the city of Nis, and I had the honour of opening it. In 2002, at that time as the federal interior minister, I discovered the Memorial to the dead of Serbian pilots, which was built in front of the third army Air Force command at the time. That's normal stuff. Anyone who lived in this space had in his family someone who had left their bones, his life for the future, for the better future of this country, and therefore should not be put into the role of ground-based daily-political struggle. I call upon you all to make this good law, that this day that follows us tomorrow, that this state in which we are now we do not spoil additionally by having something to do with what we do not have, some of you, to make a false display of history, to make Serbia a country not only where the uncertain future is, but in which it is uncertain and past, so we listen to various fictional things that should define that before 2012, and some think even before 2016 nothing happened in this country. Of course it happened. I can be proud of at least two thank-yous or charters from 1999, and whoever's leading you can only be proud of the tenant's right to an apartment that he won at the time. The People's MPs of the SNS are getting it. ) Does the chairman hear what is heard from the other side? He can't hear. I'll arrange for you through Dr. Milosavljevic's review, he's for the ORL. But it bothers me, and what you're doing right now is an additional confirmation of what I've been saying. Don't save Serbs anymore. Wherever you were saving them, they're gone, from Knin to Podway. Where'd the money come from, that's what someone's asking me. I'm always ready for the authorities to make a statement. It can also be public, you can make and there was a proposal for a survey board with that question. I'm willing to teach you a lot of things, even that thing. So let's try in these difficult moments for our country, again, we have at least enough strength, cheeks, honor not to dirty what is the light of this country's history, this people and those citizens who live here and are not Serbs, because this is not just the state of the Serbian people. Let's try to at least at times when it's very necessary to rise above the primitives that have led some to deal with only day-to-day politics. Let's do something to get across, that those who gave life in Kosovo Polish, in the Balkan wars, when they freed Kosovo, in World War I, when they defended Serbia, in World War II, when they freed this country, in NATO bombing, when they tried to save children and non-power, that at least those people weren't ashamed of what Serbian politics is today, or the government you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41330	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41331	Article 107, Mr. Arsic, for these things that have been said, and as for our MP groups and some, how is it said here again so bravely and confidently, shame, right? So, shame, ladies and gentlemen, is when someone gets up here, so praises themselves, or sits down, if it's hard for him to get up, so praises himself, which I won't get into, and then talks about the victims for this country and then lifts up some chapel and a monument for the great merits. To us, a man speaks to us, we are addressed by a man who, not once, but many times, has accused the victims of being themselves guilty of being injured, who is the country that suffered accused herself of being guilty of the accident that happened to her. With such behavior, both he and those who had appeared before him destroyed any monument that might have accidentally opened up somewhere to take a little picture, destroyed every chapel they might have raised to take a little picture somewhere. Do they care about those victims? What's the monument to those victims? Who closed the "Eternal Fire" in New Belgrade? Who let it heal in the weeds? Do those who care so much, much about our victim, our victims? We've seen how much they appreciate and how much they care about anything. The point has always been in some of the money mentioned here. For that money, someone is able to choose his current actions and his light screens, even what he will do today, and what he will do tomorrow, what he will praise, what he will stand for. Parliamentaryism, if you are concerned about it, do not guard you who, once again, burned this Assembly, do not guard you who have shown how much you care about parliamentaryism when you faked votes from Thessaloniki, Bodrum, etc., do not keep you who have shown that nothing in this country is sacred to you, including what should be the most important. These are the people who gave life for this country. When you talk about these people, your words matter as if you're talking about a new piece for "the shark" or picking up something in a hyper-market or a gas station. It's so worth anything you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41333	When we talk about the existence of any meaning in our amendments, when it makes any sense, not in what you write, but in what you think, say or do, then we can talk about the meaning of it. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41334	Comrade Zivkovic, you have no right to a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic: By amendment. Hold on, hold on. The word has been made by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41335	I thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 27. Rules of Procedure, in respect of Art. 108th and 109th, because the least that should have been applied to the Rules of Procedure was a reminder to MP Zivkovic, who was the most cruel insult of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, commenting that the government had committed atrocities against its citizens before 2000, and that is nothing more than an insult to the citizens. At no time did he look back on anything that was to be said because of the piety to the victims, which is that the bombing in 2000 was a beast act, a crime, thousands of deaths, children... (Zoran Zivkovic: In 1999 there was a bombing. Only you shout, it's a picture and an opportunity for you, your character, your time, your rule. What was in 1999 and 2000 was a function of bringing to power people like this. If it hadn't been for that bombing, if it hadn't been for the money that many people bought to replace those who fought for the state, to bring down those who were patriots, it would have been for the arrival of these people, the arrival of those shameless, the arrival of those who destroyed the state. I pray that in this way no one offends the citizens of the Republic of Serbia anymore and respects the sacrifices they have given to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41336	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41337	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 108th and 109th, you should have taken some action. There's a saying that says, "Who doesn't have his own value can't appreciate someone else's worth." This applies to my colleague, farmer Zivkovic, even though the farmer tried. He's said here more than once that his peasants stink. The memories I'm talking about are mostly for the peasant army, therefore, for those people who stink at him, but when he has breakfast, lunch, dinner, and how good it is. So the farmer's product is good for him. There are other products I'll talk about later, and they consume in liquid condition. While he's already calling the doctor, Milisavljevic is not there, but there is Dr. Rancic, a specialist for him. So, he said the amendments were pointless to us, the man who and Pavicevic submitted thousands, thousands of amendments and then called him a political officer. Here he was proud of someone with a uniform, but he didn't say if he got a gun, they didn't give him a gun. You know why? They didn't know which side they were going to shoot in 1999. He was talking about the thank-you poster. Let him show it and you will see that, without the seal, from Podgorica, from September 1999 when he returned from the sea. So, that plaque is from Podgorica, I'm responsible for that, and he was the mayor of Nis. What contribution, as Mayor of Nisa, gave to Podgorica, do you say so yourself? Further, monuments, he wanted...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41338	Mr. Risticevic, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41339	... Wait until I'm finished, to raise the monument of Djindjic, whose chair he sat down in, and he wanted to build a monument of forks and knives. I think it's more appropriate for him to try to pick up a monument than these alcohol plugs he drank. It would certainly be a grand monument, like the one on Avali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41340	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41341	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106 but also Article 108. We have again experienced one speaker, who, for who knows which time, accused Serbia and Serbs directly of everything that happened in the 1990s, so he spoke where we defended Serbs, I don't know, there are no Serbs anymore, etc. and similar nonsense to him. In this way, he demeans just those of his ancestors he spoke of in his pawnage. I can't help but notice some coincidence, which is not, that Plenkovic just attacked Serbs yesterday in the same way. Plenkovic says - the country has committed aggression and is responsible for the wars, Serbia has committed aggression on Croatia, but before that on Bosnia, Slovenia and Kosovo and is responsible for all wars. So that's what Plenkovic says, but that's what the MP here says at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Zivkovic. Tell me, is it a shame for the entire National Assembly, even though it should be his shame? In this way he also settled with his associate Stipe Mesic, who performs a joint function at the Slovenian Institute "Ifimes". That's what he forgot to tell us. I think at the very least you should have given him a reminder of everything he said earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41342	I don't think there's a breach of that provision. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? No, I don't. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41343	Yesterday and the day before, in the Council of Europe, MP Alexander Seselj was arousing pro-Fascist and pro-fascist spirits throughout Europe, and he is right...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41344	State the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41345	Article 32. He's right, a colleague who just said it caused Plenkovic's reaction, among other things, to the mouth of Plenkovic. In any case, it is interesting that today's MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia blames the people in the same way for what happened in the 1990s, as they like to say, for something directly responsible by their employers, both then and present, for something where they were also responsible. You know, we remember who called for the bombing of Serbia and who was hiding at the time of the Serbian bombing. No, these two days, while the MPs, who participated in the work, were quite alike when it came to war memorials and when we mentioned various Serbian heroes from Kosovo color to Gavril Principe to Draža Mihailovic, Veselina Misite, whom we remembered and how much time we had to remember, during this period a fellow who came today to present himself in this way was not there, he was on the subject of what to say, but to say that Serbs were guilty of something his employers were guilty of, there always is. We really can't allow it in the National Assembly, there's more and more anti-Serb and pro-Prostarian debates and comments here, and the chairman's got to stop anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41346	I don't think there's been a breach of the said Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? No, I don't. Thank you. A colleague of Zivkovic and a colleague of Jerkov's after the amendment, but first replica. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41347	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I repeat again that the SNS MPs have been speaking about their amendments all the time talking about the great suffering of Serb warriors in the Liberation Wars that have been waged. Serbia has always been on the side of the winner and Serbia is an anti-fascist country. Our sermons were tried by him who enters the National Assembly Hall of Mosses and who seems to have no idea what's on the agenda. We were tried by one who, following the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, broke into 12,000 homes and unlawfully and counter-constitutionally declaring the state of emergency and detained 12,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, out of those 12,000 citizens, only one hundred were processed, but of course the rest were paid by the citizens of Serbia because people who were illegally and counter-constitutionally detained and who sought compensation. The compensation was not paid by a speaker who spoke this inspiredly but was paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the sermons are held by those who carried out the biggest transport in the early 21st century also anti-constitutional and illegal invisible people, Roma from the Belgrade area, about 300 families, moved not to where they wanted to be, but to where Gilas assigned them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41348	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41349	It was the highest degree of human rights endangerment and the basis for freedom towards the most vulnerable citizens, according to the Roma who took place at the time of the authorities of Dragan Gilas, the government of the yellow company.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41350	A fellow rancher, on what grounds? (Branimir Rancic: Replica. I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... ) Right to replica, MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41351	Thank you. Since I'm mentioned as a psychiatrist doctor, I have to say here that I'm not the only shrink here. It is unfair not to mention counterpart Krivokapic, who is also a psychiatrist and there is Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic as a professor of psychiatry. So we here in the Assembly have two primary psychiatrists and one professor. Just enough for one consulate. As for the truth about the chapel in Nis, I must say the following. It is true that Zoran Zivkovic opened the chapel in Nis, but there is no point, because across the street there is a second monument, also dedicated to the victims of NATO bombing in Nis, where the monument opened the SPS that was then in power. Thus, the monument made by the SPS and Zoran Zivkovic with its chapel clearly points to the goal of making a distinction between people, i.e. in the Serb people. That's why DS, Mr. Zivkovic, let me tell you is a termite party that was designed to eat Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41352	First in line, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41353	I said a few facts a little while ago. These are the facts of those who are not stupid and those who are not evil. So I'm not surprised at the many reactions I've heard after that, but they don't interest me. For justice and for the Serbian public, it is true that a monument was built near the chapel in Nis. I think Mr. Mrkonjic was the creator of the construction of the monument, and he might as well as be someone working on rebuilding the country after the bombing to say about how the town of Nis participated in the process, if that's what he's interested in. As for my statements about bombings, I invite you to Google, because you don't know anything else, so you find my statements before the bombing, during the bombing, and you have on YouTube, and my speech at the General Assembly of the NATO Pact somewhere in the fall of 1999, well, then you can hear my views that aren't subsequent views, which are not views after first getting an apartment in the Vračar and then changing attitudes after that, but these are attitudes that have been made in the 1999 NATO Pact in their general assembly, if you know what it is. As for the '90s and those who are to blame for how the Serbian people died, it's as clear as day, and that's what I said. It is, of course, these lunatics who bombed us and who attacked us all around, but also the domestic criminals, who first know when there was a bombing, a respected colleague, not in 2000, you mixed it up a little, you probably didn't get out of the hole you hid in in 1999...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41354	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41355	Some have been punished almost 20 years, so the first man, the first person of this regime today, is sentenced to one year in prison. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41356	I thank my colleague. (Zoran Zivkovic: Can we proceed according to the amendment? You can't now. There's already been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First Vladimir Orlic, then the Witch of Rade. Here's a colleague of Orlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41357	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. Now we are, are we, because someone can't stand the truth about themselves and me and stupid and evil. Right? We're stupid, we're evil, and it's all right. But if someone had as much memory as a cricket so they couldn't remember their own statement from a minute or two ago, that's for every card on our side. It's not about the statements before 1999, it's not about 1999, it's about two minutes ago. Whoever in this room said, where people were defending themselves, that's where they got killed for defending themselves. Who thus said that these people themselves were responsible for their suffering? One who obviously can't move beyond the cricket when it comes to different levels of competence or skill. I don't want to get into those things any further. It's a matter of personal concern for those who have these problems. In the 1990s, and who was guilty of what? And the name of the Knin was mentioned. Maybe he wasn't in the party back then, and maybe he was, so he forgot, when he can't remember for two minutes, he can't remember that much range of years. Its party advocated in its first programme that the Knin be part of Serbian countries, its party also advocated that the Serbian Krajina and Republika Srpska be part of Serbian countries. If he has a problem with it today, he has a problem with himself. He can't remember that. It doesn't have to remember, there are those of us who remember these things very well and who know these things and how to Google them, if Google is the essence of anything. What's the question of use? For example, that famous question about the subsidies that someone takes and assigns to himself. Right, Mr. Zivkovic? When someone on the basis of whether they get a little money for a vineyard or a little money to replace a part of the most shark, it also forms its views, forms what they will say, what they will think. That man said more loudly and more clearly than anything anyone else would have to say. After all, what did NATO say to the pact? It's also on Google. That's what he said about different embassies, hoping to become something more important than it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41358	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41359	People with no meaning whatsoever are not only political, but human beings are not worth talking to either here or at the embassy. They are where they are because they are who they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41360	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41361	Article 107(1) Earlier, Mr. Zivkovic said that in his address he wanted to actually address those who understood, not those who were stupid and evil. And those who are stupid and evil, he says, responded to his earlier discussion. He asked me a moment ago, what are you calling me? I reacted on behalf of the parliamentary group to his previous discussion and whether we are stupid, whether we are evil, is not very important. It is important that unlike Mr. Zivkovic and all those with whom he was and with whom he was today, we were never traitors, we were never thieves, we were never cowards and we never will be. We all know who called and we never called for the bombing of our country, and we know who did, all of Serbia knows, the rest is written down. We, unlike those who called for the bombing, referred, where the Serbian people needed it, volunteers of the SRS and they fought honestly and honestly for the interests of their people. Whether we lost something or not, we tried to defend our people. We tried to defend, we defended the best we could, Mr. Zivkovic, and your Djindjic called and showed which targets should be bombed exactly. Remember the locator? Remember the resistance? It's been a long time, but unfortunately, many of us are very much in the memory. It's all absolutely true, and it would be better for you to cover yourself and not answer on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41362	You're bringing the end, my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41363	As far as the curses are concerned, some of them, I'm looking at you, Zivkovic, cursed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41364	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41365	I thank you, Chairman. There have been repeated insults against which you have not responded, so I'm going to refer to article 107. Because of Serbian citizens, it should be pointed out that whoever calls for ethics should have at least a basic ethical code, and Mr. Zivkovic is obviously not there, because if he had it then he would think of at least something to respect the Serbian people. When the same one he called and spit on, he went to Pale to convince MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly to accept Vance Owen's plan, to stop the war on BiH territory, to stop the bloodshed, to protect the people in Krajina, he would remember a lot more about what was stately, in any case, but he can't remember... (Alexandra Jerkov: You have reached out to the Rules of Procedure. These are Madame, or Miss, however, all the insults your colleague has made. And to avoid insults, since he can't, obviously, given that he's shocked by being just insulting, then it's essential to point out something he should know. And he knows how well, how he came to power. Those who are called upon to have been bombed, are those who created the government after 5 October 2000, the same ones with whom he negotiated what kind of policy he would lead, both internally and externally. Who, in any way, will destroy Serbia, both economically and in any other way. How was an economic cemetery created? How were the companies destroyed after 2000? How many people were left on the street, how many unemployed? What happened to criminal privatisations and who was responsible for it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41366	You're bringing the end, my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41367	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41368	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41369	Thank you, Chairman, Article 108. I simply must remind you that certain measures are at your disposal, such as saying a reminder, taking away words or so, every time the Serb people, the state of Serbia and the National Assembly are offended. I am glad that previous speaker Zoran Zivkovic confirmed everything we just said and I am glad that the citizens of Serbia have the opportunity to see the kind of coalition Zivkovic – Plenkovic – Stipe Mesic – Ante Gotovina. Now, since there's been an anti-Serbian hysteria lately with hand-lifting in a certain direction, as you can see from Stipe Mesic, Ante Gotovina, I expect Zoran Zivkovic to take pictures with this shameful reaction in the coming days and join the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41370	Dear fellow Members of the People, it is impossible for me to break the Rules of Procedure so much for several discussions, that, in accordance with Article 112, I now set a five-minute break until the session is settled.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41371	Dear MPs, the People's MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41372	Thank you. Now that you've come to the O.R., you haven't been following up on what was going on before, so I'm going to give my contribution to the amendment discussion on Article 3. The Memorial Act. I've also asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a replica, but there was no opportunity to win, so now I'm going to use, with your permission, to continue in that manner and in the way my colleagues before me talked about these amendments. There was a question - who's stupid and who's evil? Stupid is the one who wore a T-shirt on 16 August 2016...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41373	Ambassador, in a moment I will interrupt you, you will certainly understand the reasons. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work further, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the President of the House of Representatives of the Kingdom of Morocco, the NJ. E. Mr. Habib El Malki, who is meeting with members of the delegation for an official visit to the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we have just signed an understanding and co-operation agreement with the Parliament of the Kingdom of Morocco. Thanks again to NJ. E. on his visit and the conversation we had. Here you go, MP Zivkovic. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41374	Thank you very much. Some have recognized themselves in some of my words, so to give an additional explanation, I find it foolish and evil to anyone who, on 16 August 2016, wears a shirt with an American candidate for President Donald Trump, and calls for his vote, and then afterwards says it is the greatest enemy of the Serbian people and then accuses me of being a servant of the same state. He's just as stupid and mean as he who despises that state, stands for something completely the opposite, and his money goes to waste trapped in a bank in that state. So that's one part of the explanation. Other colleagues recognized themselves in that part of whether they were smart or something else, whether they were good or something, so I wouldn't get into it anymore. Anyway, let's go back to what I said earlier, and for the guests who are here, but even when they're not here, let's not spoil what's good past, what we should be proud of, there's a lot of things. Serbian history is full of events we must and should and are and must be proud. Apart from the last 20, 30 years, from around 1990, here, we can be proud of the history in which Serbs participated as a people, and in which other Serbian citizens participated. There were mistakes, of course. Since it's such a wide subject, let me look into it. It was a mistake to make Yugoslavia. There was no need to do that. Victory over Austro-Hungarian, victory over Turkey at the time, did not have to be ended as the great forces wanted, which is to make one big unsustainable state. It could've been solved through Serbia and some Catholic variant of Sverenoslavia. I fully agree that Serbs, but not only Serbs, but all, except for some exceptions, lost at that time, from 1918 to 1990, but just remember who ruled at the time, whose dynastys? Shipar, Macedonian, Bosniak, or Serbian? That's what you remember. Remember who ruled this country afterwards, and remember what the chances were in 1989, when we were invited to be part of the European Economic Community, which is probably what some people are reading about, it exists in the archives, well, it's missed. So let's look at our mistakes too, but certainly the debate on one important law, as well as the law on the agenda today, or amendment to that law, should not be a place where all ignorance, primitiveism and evil intentions will be shown on either side. Whoever's in it already checked in, I don't want to talk about it any further. But, please, because of these victims, if you want to because of Emperor Lazar, because of Milos Obilic, because of nine Yugoslavs, because of the Kosovo girl, because of the heroes of World War I, Balkan Wars, Liberation Wars and the First Serbian uprising and the Second Serbian Uprising and Liberation in World War II and in the resistance provided by NATO aggressor in 1999, which some do not know, that we are not playing with that bright part of Serbia's history and history, but that we have enough other topics to compete over, perhaps not always the most cultural. But don't let us spoil our history. Everyone, even you, can be proud of her by 1990.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41375	My colleague Jovanovic, a colleague of Radeta, on what grounds can you just tell me? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41376	My colleague Arsic, I'm reporting under article 107 and article 112. In order not to make many cases of great importance here, colleagues and colleagues from Nis and various other people from the profession will agree, I suggest that Mr. Arsic, under article 112, interrupt the session briefly, organize a mini test here, set up a white ribbon. If Zoran Zivkovic is normally walking, because I think that really many, well, you, Mrs Djukić Dejanovic, as an expert on those who come in an alcoholic state or are the consequences of the treatment of heavy alcoholism, because only such a man can say such things, to insult, to lie, to deceive. So that's already your profession, Madam Minister. There's some confusion of consciousness, because, you know, to say, that we, the Serbian radicals, were in the campaign, after the campaign when we supported Donald Trump's election as president of America, said that he was the greatest villain, as this case here said earlier, was nothing but a mere fiction or malpractice of consciousness. But to remind him, he may have been at the beginning of his infamous stay in various countries around the world, where Serbian enemies who were then in power, as he spoke in July 2003, with Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice. And what this man, as prime minister of Serbia, was briefly in the post, because the SRS shot him down, he had to withdraw from that post in 2004, so what he promised on behalf of the Serb people, without having a mandate for it. What did he talk about and negotiate with the Americans? He promised to intensify co-operation...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41377	Bring in the end of my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41378	... Please, this is very important, with The Hague tribunal, that all Serbian heroes are extradited to The Hague tribunal and who knows what he has promised for money, power and sponsorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41379	Sticking to the Rules of Procedure is very important. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, she's a colleague of Radeta's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41380	I, on the basis of Article 27, draw more attention to some things that have been heard here who is stupid, who is evil. You know, Zoran Zivkovic is the first politician in Serbia whose diploma was sought by digging up the streets. Remember, many years ago, it was actual. Is the evil man who succeeds, here, a week after his president's death, in his case, Zoran Djindjic, he succeeds at the post of Prime Minister and receives congratulations, many here were present in the hall, receiving greetings, smiles from ear to ear, rejoices, applauds him as if at the wedding of Zoran Djindjic, not five days after his funeral when he was carrying his coffin. So much for these personal traits and morals above all, but I wanted first of all and, colleague Arsic, all the MPs, and above all, the public of Serbia to inform the party of Zoran Zivkovic again internationalises some problems or call problems. Marinika Tepic has published on her Twitter account, she is probably his vice president or whatever, on her Twitter warrant she announced that she has informed the Bundestag about the circus this National Assembly is, and more than that, but I am talking about what is related to the National Assembly. I don't know what he's expecting right now. He may expect the Germans to bomb us again because Marinika Tepic does not like her status in the National Assembly and these others around her.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41381	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41382	Here, I'm bringing the end, and I really want to let you know, we need to know what can be expected now that Marinika Tepic has been processed by the Bundestag.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41383	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41384	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 108. I believe that fellow Zivkovic wanted to take charge of this session, but Mr. Chairman, he needed to be told some measures, because for the second time he said there were some stupid and evil ones here. So I don't even think of him as that. A sly person, doesn't necessarily mean they're stupid and mean, and he's a sly one. Whoever takes care of the security of two federal units, who takes care of the security of federal government presidents, whoever lets him kill the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, whoever wants his place, is certainly not stupid, so it can't be said only evil, but it's cunning, calculated and in such a way comes up with a huge amount of money and that only for privatisations made during Sablje gets a $12m commission from Philip Morris. Also, the violation of dignity was partially done, it was advertised, but it wasn't said until the end. He called here for the Kosovo Battle, nine Yugoslavs, Milos, and also mentioned Emperor Lazar. I must say, here, I will admit, Zoran Zivkovic, my fellow farmer in an attempt, met Emperor Lazarus and Empress Milic several times, but on a full bottle of wine, he had already lost them at the void. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41385	National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Jelena Mijatovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41386	And with this amendment, I wanted to put an accent on the importance of putting together a bond between ancestors and descendants, the past and the future, the heroes of our history and our children. I was born Toplica, in Prokuplje and my colleague Darko Laketić spoke yesterday about the heroes of the Second Infantry regiment, Prince Michael, otherwise known as the Iron regiment, whose honor this year will be set up as a memorial park in Prokuplje. History obliges us and invites us to preserve the memories and memories of the great years of the Serbian people 1912 to 1918 and the role of each individual in it. That is why I will conclude the presentation on my amendment with a quote from the book "The Iron Regiment", because it is our historic responsibility to remember and convey memories to our generations. "But the next time you see a Mitic or Aleksic, because Mihajlo Aleksic, in the ranks of the Iron regiment, suffered trouble in the neđe nemer, or Ametovic, because Yasar soldier of the Iron regiment, left his bones in Ashah, or Antića, because Danilo Antić soldier of the Iron regiment ended up in Ashah and his brother Velimir in Mauthauzen. When you see someone Andrejić, because Nikola leaves her life in Brauna, or Angelkovic, because Private Petar dies in Bodagoya, or when you meet a Trifunovic, because the soldier of the Iron Road Milutin Trifunović drops his soul in the Friedrich Hafen camp, you may experience it differently because of your common ancestors. And when you see one of Pandurevic, because if it wasn't for that generation, there wouldn't be any of the most shocking testimony in this story, but when you see Mitic, Aleksic, Ammetovic, Antic, Trifunović, Pandurevic, Angelkovic, it will be an honor. That's how many of us were left before, and so many of them died and lived bravely so that we could dream of freedom, that we had nothing left but respect for each other, just because of those ancestors. Well, we come to him of some kind, after he's been killed, we have yet to become one by wisdom. “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41387	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41388	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I, as well as the previous two amendments, submitted a third with an emphasis on undeveloped areas in mountainous and mountainous areas, in areas where much more investment needs to be made. Otherwise, history we all know and speak, in history we have a large number of our people who have given their lives for our country. A large number of these people, these are the people who come from my region from southeastern Serbia, these are the great military leaders, the great warriors, to mention the Battle of Chegra, the Duke of Sijlić, about whom the songs were sung, to mention also the monumental skeleton in Srlig and a large number of such monuments that we must guard and cherish, because we will also give support to our future generations. Something very important for all of us, to remember something that was in the 99th year after the bombing, but after 2000, when we have a lot of monuments from factories that have been destroyed, where there are no more workers. These are some monuments we can't forget, because in those monuments we have to put workers in there to work. It's some other people who came in 2000 to blame. But for me, most importantly, I, as president of the USS, have submitted two more amendments after this. One of these amendments is that I would also like to give support and call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this amendment because it is very important for people living in the country, who create families, to provide them with 20% to 50% more funds compared to this financial assistance provided by law. Why? So that those people would stay there to live, so that women would stay there to have babies, because where there are children, there is a future. I thank all my colleagues once again, with the desire to vote in favour of my amendments and to support the undeveloped areas of the southeast of Serbia and all our villages and Serbia's agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41389	By amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41390	It's an interesting idea that even failed businesses are raised by monuments, of course, it shouldn't be part of this law. This law, I repeat and warn my colleagues, deals with serious matters and something called a serious part of Serbian history. And it is true that the Serbian economy has been destroyed, but also by logic and by economy and by common sense, it is clear that it was destroyed in the 1990s and that there is no company that was successful until 2000, and then it became unsuccessful. I already told you, for those privatisations that were made at the time I was in power, which means from November 2000 to March 2004, I'm proud. All these companies are working, the legality of their privatisations is not disputed, and for that you can check with Cynthia Malo, who was at the time the head of the tender privatisation sector at the Serbian government's privatisation agency. So if you want details, I know it in principle, but all the details of the privatisations for the period I've told you can be seen with Mr. Cynthia Small. It's completely pointless, and anyone who doesn't get into those two categories I just said could understand that no one will at least buy the dirtiest money to destroy what he bought, if that's good. So if some criminal from Srlig, let's say some NN face...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41391	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: I had time. No, you don't. (Zoran Zivkovic: As I don't have, I still have time.) Well, you don't. (Zoran Zivkovic: Please, I have more time. You've talked two or three times, you've used your time. (Zoran Zivkovic: You are not ashamed. ) Right to replica, MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41392	Thank you. Here, I will specifically say, the company "Krno" which worked during the war, when that power came in 2000, the company was privatised, bought two MPs who were in the DOS at the time. They took the stuff that was in the company and it was worth more to that company than that company itself. Then the company Progress, the company Elektronska, is all the companies that were destroyed between 2000 and 2004. Therefore, they are witnesses who now exist and people know who is to blame. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41393	You have no right, colleague Zivkovic. Right to the replica of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41394	Thank you. During the government of the Dossmanian regime, the largest robbery privatisations were carried out. According to an estimate not of us from the SNS but of an American institute, from Serbia, based on robbery privatisations, 51.4 billion dollars were made. There are 2,400 devastationed enterprises left behind. Companies were not sold to continue their operations, but to be sent to the streets by workers, and businesses further resold. Of course, all through the gray economy and through mostly illegal cash flows. The privatisation is talked about by those who left 26% of the unemployed behind. Privatisation is talked about by those who are only the Tax Administration, on the basis of tax debts and contributions owed by 600 billion dinars, and now it was only 7%. With the non-payment of contributions and taxes, they severely violated the dignity of employees, but also the dignity of their children, for the reason that these families, unfortunately because of unpaid contributions and taxes, had no right to health care and medical treatment. It's a shame what the representatives of the yellow company are today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41395	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bakery, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41396	Thank you, Chairman. Here, in my ears, I still have some cynical questions raised by certain MPs of a part of the opposition, and that question – in which the Serb soldier participated in the battles or which the Serb soldier won and lost. Let's think of some of them. We remember the Battle of Mary in 1371, or the Kosovo Color in 1389, or the Kunovic Battle in 1444 at Nis, under the Dry Mountain, remember that the Serb army entered the Kosovo Villate and immediately after that freed both the Bitola and the Skadari Villat, the territory of Bitola and the Skadarian Villat. In November 1912, the Serbian army freed Durres, and the withdrawal of 1913 created conditions for the formation of an independent Albanian state. In World War I, a Serb soldier defended his country in 1914, and in 1918, we lost 28% of the population. On the basis of the Serbian soldiers' deaths, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia were created. Speaking of Yugoslavia, of all Yugoslavs in World War II, Serbs were the most injured, not by the hands of the occupiers, but by the hands of those whom we forgave for what they did to us in World War I. They also stabbed us in the back in 1991, and the Yugoslav soldier again wanted to defend his country, because he was immediately declared a Serbian occupier. It's no problem when we hear it from those who moved us out, who burned our houses down. It hurts to hear it from some of us. It hurts when we deny our own history and when we prefer other people's aggressions rather than our own victims. Fortunately, the history of Serbian heroism does not begin from the podgorje plaque of Mr. Zivkovic, nor from the CIA course attended by Mrs. Jerkov. If we can't agree on what happened, about what's going to happen, about the future, let's at least agree on what happened, about the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41397	Right on the line, People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41398	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm not surprised that SNS MPs are informing themselves on Wikipedia, where there's information that I've attended some kind of CIA course or I don't know exactly what it says. I don't know, Mr. Pekarski, do you understand how Wikipedia works? It's not an official database, nor does the one to whom it relates have any control over what it says. Ask some of your colleagues, they probably used some sources of Wikipedia when writing their doctorate, even though they did not prescribe what they wrote on their own. I'll read slowly, so you can understand. Your amendment reads: “The education of the Council provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to capacity-building, so that the next time you think about giving a lecture to someone about whether we like our victims, how much we appreciate them, and how much we respect them, and you remember that you have submitted an amendment asking that the installation of war memorials ensure capacity utilisation. Just keep that in mind, and then teach someone how patriotic they are and how much they value the people who gave this life and how much they value their sacrifice and how much they value what they did. Employment capacity, Mr. Bakery, that's what you suggested to provide war memorials. The fact that you are not even able to talk about these people and that in the most brutal way possible you do not insult those who do not think the same as you, that I see colleagues from the SNS already raising Rules of Procedure, which will again be dozens of advertising by the Rules of Procedure, which serve as replicas, speaks of SNS more than any political opponent. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41399	You have no right, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: How's she doing and I don't? ) Well, you yourself admitted that you got a plaque from Podgorica. (Zoran Zivkovic: That's right. My colleague, Jerkov, did not admit anything. Messenger of the People Krsto Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41400	Thank you, Chairman. Member of 107th Dignity. Please, just for the sake of truth, the coalition partner of the previous pay phone claims, is more specifically working in the direction that war memorials and how they have to do with employment and capacity and everything... Look out, we don't inform ourselves of Wikipedia. Your coalition partner in all local elections in Zlatibor County Milan Stamatovic has placed a memorial mark on the victims of World War II under mortgage. Members of the SNS are informed from the Republic Geodetic Institute and there when you enter 4624/1 plot, you will see that the type of burden of mortgage – in 2014, the mortgage for, according to the auditor's findings, a suspicious purchase of gondola, so from your point of view, it is for the employment of capacity, and from our point of view, each amendment makes additional sense, because nothing of us can really surprise us anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41401	In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41402	Let's move on. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41403	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as SNS MPs have pointed out many times in the debate so that the state of Serbia could provide funds for its big and important needs, which certainly includes a decent attitude towards the memorials, but also anything else that really needs this country. She's got to develop, she's got to get there. Today it is in Serbia a reality. Among other things, that is why we are now discussing this law that provides for that kind of concern. Today, Serbia, in the opinion of the famous Ernst and Yang auditorium, is among the 15 most successful countries in Europe when it comes to the number of investments. In its official finding, the house has positioned Serbia on the top 15-nation list for the first time since the list was issued. That speaks enough of what the odds are in our country today, and if we have to compare ourselves to some past times, as they used to be. Compared to the previous year, Serbia has increased investment by 157%, and on this basis the job has found 20,000 people. It is, of course, a process that has its dynamics and must be maintained. In connection with the process, only two days ago, a new investment was opened in Panchev, i.e. a new good project was launched that would provide a job for hundreds of additional people, a job worth hundreds of millions of euros and a job that he himself opened and, with his presence, marked the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic. On this occasion, we have determined that, according to all projections, the planned growth in the Republic of Serbia will exceed 3.5% and we expect it to be as much as 4%. So that's all that reality is in our country today, that's all that makes it possible for us to do good things in Serbia. We will certainly continue to do so, and what others do, let their problem remain, and those autistic empty benches of the yellow company on the other hand be messages to Dragan Gilas what he bought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41404	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41405	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, and today we are discussing an important law, a law that, behold, has been passed after 40 years, because we all know that this area has been defined by the regulations that were passed in the 1970s and some year before, so it was really necessary to pass a new law that would regulate these regulations and, of course, that the largest newspaper is the responsibility of the Ministry of Care of the Liberation Wars of Serbia and to give consent to the new war memorial. What I want to point out is that the town of Kruševac, where I come from, is tomorrow about to discover a new monument, a monument to the Princess of Militice, which has been forgotten, and six centuries. No previous government, both in the town of Kruševec and in the Republic, remembered to raise this monument. It will be discovered tomorrow at 11:15 p.m. in Despot Stefan Square. The initiative was given by Mr. Bratislav Gasic, current director of BIA, and otherwise, Mayor of Kruševec in the period from 2012 to 2014. And not only that, it doesn't matter how much he managed to make a deal with the Rasin County's businessmen to raise this important monument by donor means. What is very important is that by October 14th of this year another monument will be erected, a monument to fallen fighters from 1990 to 1999, at the turn of the "Freedom" Park, also from donor funds, which means that we have shown that one responsible policy gives results because citizens and businessmen trust us. That's why in the voting day we'll support these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41406	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41407	Thank you, President. It seems to me that our colleague is not explaining in the right way why the National Assembly should adopt its amendment in the voting day, which reads – the education of the council provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on the development of the health system. So, a colleague believes that war memorials need to ensure the functioning of the health system and that's her right. But she doesn't explain to us here why we need to do it. We've been transferred here just now so we don't know that we respect what's most sacred in our country, that we don't know that we respect the people who gave our lives for this country. And again, every time you say that, remember that you have submitted an amendment that the war memorials should ensure the functioning of the health system, and then think about how you respect the victims of the people who gave lives for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41408	The word is made by MP Dragana Barisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41409	Thank you. When it comes to the health system and the health of our citizens, the previous speaker, I really don't think she should mention it, because her yellow company destroyed the state of Serbia, left the citizens out of work, put a lock on all the factories, so they're full of offices, especially psychiatric ones, because people are depressed because they just left them out of work. So, I think it's extremely rude of her to talk about whether we should propose amendments concerning the health of Serbian citizens or the health system. They destroyed everything from the health system, the economy, the factory, everything that could have been destroyed. Therefore, it would be better to sit in this room more often and do something for the benefit of the citizens, not to come from time to time and say a few words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41410	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41411	I don't think my colleague understands me, so I'm gonna go over it slowly. We're talking about the War Memorial Act. The debate is on the agenda in particular, where MPs should report and explain what their amendment is, which will help make the law more quality and convince MPs to do so in the day of the vote, unless the Government has already done so, and the minister can now do so, adopt their amendment. The colleague submitted an amendment suggesting that the War Memorial Act could improve the functioning of the health system. Instead, she lectures here on patriotism, on the state of health, tells us for a completely unknown reason that Gasic initiated the opening of a monument, which is not a war memorial. I can't even find a connection there. I believe that the SNS does not want to discuss other amendments, that they are not intended at all to improve this law. I think it's clear to the citizens. I don't think they want to discuss the amendments that we have submitted to the laws that are on the agenda behind this law, which further worsen the situation of those who need help, which further reduce the issues given to pregnant women, which further reduce the issues given to families with children, which further make the position of all those citizens that the SNS are making more and more humiliating every day and who are living more and more difficult every day. That's obvious. And every word you say about health centers, about the situation in which we're talking war memorials, let it be your honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41412	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm carefully waiting to correct the master's lapus, if that's even a lapus. It was said, before two reports, “they gave the land for this life, ” she literally said. I don't know if all my colleagues heard it, but I heard it. I think she's working on her subconscious, because they robbed Agrobank for their beautiful life, Development Bank, and there's a Mr. Elezovic inside the counter robbing the bank and I think she's working on her conscience, and she's basically telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41414	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41415	I thank the esteemed president. A representative of the rest of the yellow company, which was left in Belgrade alone during the exercise of power by Dragan Gilas, is talking about maternity and pregnant women. This debt, by coming to power and taking over power, the SNS has returned to the maternity and pregnant women, and not only that, for those most vulnerable and most vulnerable coming from socially-materially endangered families, the benefits have been increased precisely on the basis of the birth of the child to 35,000 for the families coming from such families. Of course, representatives of the yellow company have absolutely not read the law. It is a law on military memorials, but it is both about rebuilding and rehabilitating and building military memorials and preserving them. In order for the state to be able to access and restore both the recovery and the construction of the Republic of Serbia's budget in a responsible manner should become more and more full. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is also becoming fuller through employment in the field of health care, through the employment of doctors, which is what this authority does in a responsible manner, because in the past month the best students of the Medical Faculty have entered the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41416	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41417	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, People's MPs, the mention of the National Liberation War fighters and the victims of fascist terror in the area of the Sokoban region were set up and discovered in one of the anniversarys related to historical events of the war. The first memorial plate was placed in front of the Amams on July 7th 1951, where the bodies of folk heroes Alexa Markesic and Rajko Vicentijevic were exhibited. Their heroism is known to the people who lived in the Sokoban region. The second memorial plate was set up at the Park Hotel on 14 August 1951, to remind that a group of NOR fighters in this hotel disarmed an occupation Bulgarian fascist division. In September 1944, Sokobanski srez became a free territory, and on September 10th of the same year in the village of Trgovište, near Sokobanje, the 45th division of NOR was formed. For a reminder of this event, a memorial pyramid was discovered on September 10th 1951. The first monument to the NOR fighters with names and last names was discovered in 1951, and the latest mark was placed in 1988. After the capitalisation of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1941, in July, the struggles against the occupiers began. In the Sokoban region, the Ozren Partisan squad was formed, which, together with the Srijeljski Squad, acted against the occupiers. The co-creation was briefly released in October 1941. To remember these events in 1969. Years on the municipality building, a memorial board was discovered. Finally, “the one living immortally, to whom the people are admired. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41418	National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41419	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, respected ministers, the War Army Memorial Act is exactly a law that allows the Republic of Serbia and all of us to look after wartime military memorials in a manner worthy of those who have made them military memorials and raised. What is significant is that I wanted firstly to focus on regional integration and development of all regional continents in Serbia, because it is precisely an opportunity for the concrete war memorial, namely the Certian Memorial complex, which is formed and which in the coming period will show the state of Serbia in the right way to repay our ancestors, first of all, in relation to World War I, the famous Battle of Cer and the victory over fascists, which is the first victory in World War I. What's important is that behind this government that results, and behind the yellow company and what they've been doing, there are other complexes, but not military memorials, not renewed, but the opposite. The problem is that they remained torn apart and destroyed chemical complexes, business complexes, agricultural complexes and military complexes. What their minister did for a very short time, he did more damage in equipment and weapons, first of all, I mean the Sutanovac, it's that he destroyed more than NATO bombing and all the problems that NATO bombing caused. In the day to vote, this law is a law that needs to be supported, because it is a law that supports Serbia, which is supported by citizens, and all those who do not support it can explain to their citizens why they do not trust them and why they do not support the past and, of course, the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41420	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41421	Thank you, President. The only thing that needs to be explained to the citizens is SNS MPs, and they need to explain why they have submitted these unworthy amendments to this law, and why they can't even spend two minutes talking about the people who died for this country and who made it possible for us to live in the country we live in today, but also those two minutes that have at their disposal, amendments that they have submitted just because other amendments to the laws that were not spoken of, cannot be spent talking about their victim, but are doing what they only know they are doing, which is to insult, lie, mud, deceive and falsely accuse. It's no problem you're doing DS. We're used to being insulted and muddy and everything else you do. The problem is that now you do this to people who are much more sacked, much braver, much more important and in every way and in every sense better than you and in every sense than you will ever be and this way you insult the memory of them and insult the memory of them and, I am very confident, you insult and members of their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41422	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41423	The Honorable President, in the name of the truth and on behalf of the citizens, what the colleague across the street is now talking about the relationship between them to the truth, and the truth is that the rest of that yellow company that is now in bankruptcy and who do not know how to liquidate, because Gilas is trying to bring him back to life, to buy him out, he probably succeeded. Not Gilas is the theme of today's session, but the topic is exactly how well anyone thinks about the Republic of Serbia and today one of the rest of the yellow company, Dusan Petrovic, Nebojsa Zelenovic, negotiate in Peća with the remains and the unrecognized state of Kosovo on the one hand, and on the other hand they do not want to support the construction of the Cer memorial complex because they do not believe it is in their interest, and it is not in their interest because Dusan Petrovic cannot be installed and cannot take a percentage from the construction of the memorial complex. The only city administration in the Mačvanska district that has not accepted and has not supported the construction of a memorial complex is the city administration in Sapac, and unfortunately, in the city administration, they are still sitting and the remains of the yellow company and what they have been doing are the truth that citizens know. Who and what he did well know Serbia's citizens and therefore make decisions when they go to the polls. My amendment is directly directed to the development of the regional district of Machovan, and it will show how long we were right when normal government is in Capco. First thing we do, we support the construction of the Cer memorial complex. May Dusan Petrovic come out in the name of the truth and say why he did not support the construction of the Cer memorial complex, let him tell his citizens from Sapac, as well as Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41424	Vladimir Orlic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41425	In connection with article 107, Madam President. I'm telling you in advance, I'm not asking you to make a statement. I just want to draw attention to the question of dignity, of course, always being in a strong relationship with the need for us in this National Assembly to stick to the truth, and about what was said just now to make SNS roses remember the people who fought for this country. One thing's about exposure. I must remind you, the amendments by the MPs of the SNS were polite, with lots of piety and respect, and when we started this debate in particular, I remind you, it was just a day ago, and Mr Filipović and Mr Risticevic and our other fellow MPs spoke exclusively about the subject and why it is important that we respect those who fought for this country. The ones who initiated some inter-party debates here are the ones who are now saying that something is bothering them. So, let me remind you, we entered and verbally attacked the SNS, our MPs. If they want the level of dialogue here to be better because of the topic or anything else, they have to take care of what they're doing. If there are statements concerning memories and memories, if by chance they think of statements such as - all the victims in this country were members of the Tirana regime, I must correct them. None of us said that. That's what their champions, ministers, the vice presidents of the party said earlier today. If they think that surviving soldiers and police officers are people who need to be removed because they are distorted by Kosovo's experiences, none of us have said that. If it's controversial in terms of memory, that's what Dragan Sutanovac said. If they think of the memory of the people who fought for the country, who is belittled by today being said that these people massacred children and caused trouble, none of us have ever said that. That's what the members of the...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41426	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41427	That was said by the presidents, members of their political councils, election headquarters, etc. So if we're going to take care of the level, there's no problem, but usually the one that points to it begins.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41428	Alexandra Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41429	I thank the president. Of course, Article 103. So just to ask you, were you under the impression that your colleague Orlic had shown you some injury in the conduct or disrespect of the procedure or that you might have been wronged by his right to the Rules of Procedure and that you might have had to do so and I do not know if his MP group had any time left to take away, but it is certainly clear that you should at least warn him that he used the right that he had as a member of the People's Parliament and actually replicated when he had no right to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41430	He called for article 107. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic. (Alexandra Jerkov: You did not ask me if I wanted the Assembly to plead. Yes, you said you wanted to. (Alexandra Jerkov: No, I didn't say. You should ask me. All right. Then we won't plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (Alexandra Jerkov: I want the Assembly to plead. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41432	Your mic's off. Let the record show that Ambassador Jerkov wants us to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that by raising and restoring war memorials, the security structures of the Republic of Serbia are strengthened. This raises the patriotic consciousness and breeds memory and memory among the members of our security structures. First of all, I think of the members of the Serbian Army, all those who have given their lives in the past centuries to defend the country and defend the Serb people. Those who do not understand the SNS amendments do not understand them because our policies are diametrically opposite. Now we could hear a little bit of a national message laughing at an amendment that mentions capacity employment. It's today's greatest patriotism. Today the greatest patriotism is to open a factory, to hire people. Today, the greatest patriotism is to make it possible for people to receive salaries. Today, the greatest patriotism is to support a law that will allow families to have more children, to contain the white plague, and the country's greatest betrayal was to shut down factories, drive people out into the street, leave people without bread, leave them without any perspective, that they can support themselves and their family members from their salaries, and that is why I am not surprised why MPs Dragan Gilas don't understand the SNS amendments. Because they don't understand our policy. Our policy is patriotism policy, and today patriotism is shown by hiring a parent in Subotica, Kraljev, Nis, in every city and municipality in Serbia, opening a new factory, opening a new job, hiring a parent and allowing him to support himself and his family and passing and voting law in the National Assembly that will stimulate these employed parents to have as many children as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41434	Thank you. The third amendment was submitted by Stanislav Janošević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41435	Thank you, President of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The monuments dedicated to NOB in World War II are located in several locations in the town of Zrenjanin. They were erected in Karadjordje's park in the very centre of the city, at the Memorial Park in Bagljas, as well as in Žitni trg. These monuments are dedicated to the executed patriots of 1941, the Red Army fighters, as well as those killed to free the city in October 1944. Around the city are monumental biste, as well as monumental tablets dedicated to personalities. Some of them are the ones by which the city is called Zrenjanin, the folk hero Zark Zrenjanin, as well as King Peter First Karadjordjevic. We must not forget all these sacrifices and give our lives for our freedom, our safety and they've put us in charge. We have a moral obligation to enable the development of our country, the Republic of Serbia, as well as the preservation of peace and stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41436	Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41437	Today, Serbia thanks to its president, Aleksandr Vukic and the SNS and its coalition partners, is an economically well-treated state, the state in which it is being built. The bill on war memorials certainly should aim to respect all those who have fallen for freedom and left us a country where we can live freely today. I must point out that this government, as a responsible government and the competent ministry of its budget, is funding the basic rights of wartime combatants as well as the families of fallen fighters right through givings, and these basic donations are the monthly fines given to fighters, wartime combatants and their families. Then, it is the right to add to other people's care and assistance, as well as the right to an increased allowance for other people's care and assistance, as well as the right to a family allowance. Strong and economically strong Serbia can do that. I must point out, on June 14th, the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, with all due respect and all due respect to those who participated in the wars, received the Association of Military Disabilities in order to listen to their problems and to start with them to solve everything that bothers them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41438	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41439	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, we are discussing a few days of important law. We are discussing how and how we should remember our ancestors, those who fought for what we have today, for freedom, for our country. Unfortunately, this debate did not leave out in itself that some would attack the SNS just to get some space in the media, to attack their country, to attack the government, to attack their past, to attack Serbia's permanent past, to attack their ancestors, and all for the sake of naked political interest. We have seen it, the citizens have seen it, the citizens will know it in the future to evaluate it, and we will continue to cultivate our free tradition, we will continue to respect our ancestors, to respect our history, we will continue to work for the citizens of Serbia, worth it, every day, to get up early, to lie down late, and not like those who criticized us to come late to the Assembly when we remember to speak the word, two to say, an ugly word, to go back to the vine, as one of our predecessors went. We will continue to respect Emperor Lazarus, but as a historical figure, not only as a packaging on a bottle of wine. We will continue to visit the graves of our ancestors, but first of all we will continue to open factories, continue to rebuild maternity homes, continue to encourage our families to have more and more children, because only in the birthing and celebrating of the past, but I say, first of all, the future of this country is at birth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41440	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41441	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with an associate, the Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted the amendment to Article 3. A bill on war memorials. Articles 3 to 5. The bill's proposal, prescribed education, competence and composition of councils to cultivate the traditions of Serbia's Liberation Wars. On the territory of the Great Plane are two very important monumental complexes, directly related to Karajordje. The first is Radovanski Luka, a memorial complex located in the same forest in the Atar of the village of Radiranje. It covers the marked scene of the murder and the original tomb of Karadjordjev, a church dedicated to St. Archangel Gavril known as the Church of Praises, the summer stage and the entrance to the gate. Radovanski Luka has the status of an immovable cultural good as a prominent place of exceptional importance. The second Pokajnica monastery was built by the church of Brvara in Adjibegovec, today Staro Selo, the church carried over the musts of St. Nicholas in 1818, raised Vujica Vulićević, the prince of Smederjev monarchy, the military leader and the national elders. This is the record of St George's icon as well as a year carved on the floor, left from the entrance to the church. NJen was created near the place where Vulicevic participated in the murder of his godfather, Karadjordje, as an interpretation of what gave the temple the people's name Pokajnica. As a peace church, she served until 1954 when she was transformed into a monastery that was declared an unmovable cultural age in the 1970 ’ s. Local self-government is neatly ageing in the maintenance of this complex, and among other things last year, within the framework of the 200-year anniversary of the assassination of Karadjordje, it has renovated and built an asphalt access road, and works have been carried out to arrange and renovate the summer stage. In voting day, I will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41442	Thank you. Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41443	Thank you, President. The War Memorial Act will regulate issues concerning the protection, regular and investment maintenance, financing and arrangement of war memorials, establishing and keeping records, removing and constructing or setting up new war memorials. The law will unequivocally define the competences of all state authorities dealing with war memorials, institutions, economic operators, natural persons, who do what they do, how and how they do, with a clearly defined procedure, so that they will overcome outdated solutions. I want to say that our history is very rich and bitter and that the constant struggle for freedom and independence has left in Serbia, but throughout the world, valuable cultural signs and historical monuments. We have an obligation to take good care of war memorials wherever they are, because Serbia shows respect for its past, for all those who have lost their lives in war conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41444	Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41445	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the practice so far has highlighted the need to adopt a new law that would, above all, unequivocally define competences, replace outdated solutions with new ones, harmonize the terminology and regulate this area in accordance with the established principles of modern civil society with respect to human rights. The reasons for the adoption of law on emergency war memorials are the need to regulate as quickly as possible the issues regulated by the law, in order to make the state administration more effective in the process of protecting regular investment maintenance, financing and maintenance and arrangements of war memorials, establishing and keeping records, removing or creating new war memorials. In order to achieve all the provisions of the law, Article 3 prescribed education of the council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, to give an opinion on a proposal to edit war memorials and remove war memorials. The council will appoint a minister in charge of the care of the Serbian Liberation Wars tradition for a four-year period. By cherishing the tradition of free wars and preserving Serbia's war memorials, all bright events from the history of the Serbian people and young generations are kept informed of the eternal struggle of their ancestors for freedom, their suffering, heroism and endless loyalty to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41446	Milan Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41447	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with his associate, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. As I said in the amendment to article 1 the day before yesterday, history is a teacher of life. Why am I saying this? The MP from the opposition camp made a comment on our amendments. If we were counting on time, with today, if they were there, we would see that there were 20 hours, history classes, with respect, respect, drinking to all our casualties, victims and civil and war that unfortunately happened in our history because of a great free will that is a characteristic of our people. They can check that in their notes. With respect to which in their discussions and citizens watching the broadcast, they had the opportunity to see for themselves, and their appreciation speaks to these empty benches, today only two, two, three yesterday. They come and say a few offensive things at the expense of their people and come out. I also wonder how those before those who voted can justify their political, any particulars when they fail to fulfil their basic parliamentary duty. If they had sat here and kept their mouths shut, it would have been respect and piety under this law and all those historic moments that happened in our history. So, empty stories, but citizens see everything, so they go to the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41448	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Igor Becic. Snezana Petrović submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41449	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, honourable fellow MPs, in the Zlatibor County of the Freedary People, from which I come, in each of the 10 municipalities and the town of Užica, there are war memorials that testify about the brave struggle of our ancestors for today's freedom in which we live and look after the future of our children. The large "Kadinjaca" memorial complex on the hill of Kadinac near Užica, raised in the mention of the lost working battalion in 1941, the memorial complex "Bosko Buha" in the village of Jabuka near Prepolje, raised in mention of all pioneers and youth killed in the People's Liberation War, the memorial of the monument and memorial of the park of fallen fighters of the Liberation Wars from 1912 to 1914, and in 1941 in Kosjerić, the memorial of the home of the folk heroes Stevan Čolovic, Milorad Bonžulić, Vladimir Radovanovic, Miodrag Milovanovic, Jezimir Lović, Miloš Divac, Momir Pucarević and Krstina Leković and many others, each in some of the municipalities of the districts, as well as mention of the Czechs of the fallen fighters in many cities, doubting the end of this population. All war memorials mentioned in speeches, as well as those who are not, deserve equal attention to be mentioned by generations with respect in order to cultivate the tradition of the Serbian people's Liberation Wars. Therefore, the purpose and purpose of the proposed law for all war memorials to be recorded in one place and to be equally cared for and old, surely deserve support in the day to vote, the Serb People's Party MPs will support a set of proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41450	Thank you. Dragan Savkic submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41451	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with an associate, honourable fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment in Article 3. The bill, paragraph 2, reads -- the education of the council provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. The bill provides for the education of councils to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars in order to give an opinion on the regulation and removal of war memorials. The council should have seven members, and professional and administrative technical support to the council is provided by the competent ministry. It is important to stress that the Republic of Serbia has not had regulations so far that regulate jurisdiction and the procedure for making decisions to raise new war memorials. The decision to raise new memorials is made by the minister after he has obtained the council's opinion. The proposal to raise new memorials must be credible, i.e. to meet real and historical facts, should not offend general and state interests, public morals, national and religious feelings. Among other things, it is not allowed to raise the memory of a person who supported or represented fascist, Nazi, chauvinistic, separatist and ideological ideas, or was an associate of occupiers, aggressors and their allies. With that in mind, the Bill on War Memorial guarantees uniform application and makes significant contributions to respect for human and minority rights, as well as national and religious feelings. In this way we cultivate tradition for future generations, respect human and minority rights, so as to define jurisdiction and strengthen responsibility. This affects the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the efficiency of the institutions, and I believe it must be explicitly highlighted in Article 3. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41452	Time, thank you. The third amendment was submitted by Milosav Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41453	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the esteemed minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I propose that the education of the council ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. The amendment further defines the tasks and objectives of the council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. The council's task is to give opinions on the proposal to edit the war memorial and remove the war memorial. The Council itself should be formed from the ranks of experts from various organizations and areas of history and state administration. These are people who are competent to help the state and its organs to preserve monuments, to remember the fallen victims that make up the war memorial. We all know how much this government, headed by President Alexander Vukic, has done and how much effort it is making to encourage investment, increase employment and improve the standards of our citizens' lives. That is why we must all strive together to continue this trend. Serbia is today a leader in the region in the area of economic growth. The municipality of Arangelovac is just one of the examples of local self-government that has grown, progressed and developed under SNS. In addition to many areas of life, I believe that much has been done in the development of the topic that we are talking about today. In places such as the mention of a skeleton in Arangelovac or Maricevic Jaruga in the local community of Orasac, we celebrate the days of liberation in the First and Second World War, we mark the memory of the Kolubar Battle and the rise of the First Serbian uprising. Our desire is to increase the number of visitors to these sites year by year, to enlarge our offer with the memory of our victims and make these memories more beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41454	The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Mike.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41455	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law on war memorials that is ahead of us, refers to war memorials both in Serbia and abroad. Last year, when we adopted the Agreement on the Protection of War Graves and Military Memorials with the Czech Republic, we heard that abroad there are 676 known war memorials in 40 different states. However, the Republic of Serbia has so far signed an agreement on the regulation of these areas only with the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Russia. I hope the practice of signing these agreements continues. One of those war memorials abroad is also a war memorial at the Norwegian city of Narvik, where 50 of the Kickinians were interned during World War II to work in camps, to build roads and bunkers in Norway. About 4,500 people were interned from then on in Yugoslavia. There were 32 camps in Norway and it can be said that mortality was about 70%, some order is that this mortality was greater than it was in Auschwitz. Regardless of some ugly past, what can be said for this period of World War II, what has come out nicely is that the citizens of Yugoslavia then established good relations with the civilian population in Norway, so today the city of Kikinda and the town of Narvik are collected and there is the Association of Serbian-Norway Friendship that brings us together with them both business and friendly relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41456	The third amendment was submitted by Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41457	Madam President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to once again commend the adoption of a law on war memorials, whose goal is to systematically edit, install, remove war memorials. What is one of the essential issues for me about this law is is that this law will be possible to execute a list of all the sites and help build, resembling the mention of the features in today's Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, so in the area where four years in World War II, the infamous, independent state of Croatia appeared? Here, I'll give you some examples. We have an infamous Serbian people's site on the Gravice near Bihac, where about 12,000 Serbs and about two and a half thousand Jews and Roma were slaughtered in three months 1941. Then, the Šushnar site near Sanski Most, where more than five and a half thousand Serbs and about 50 Jews were also slaughtered in the summer of 1941. My question to Ms. Minister is – will the state of Serbia be equally referring to this area, therefore, to the BiH area, Croatia, I repeat, infamous NDH? Why would I ask that? Article 3 contains a formulation – a council is being educated to cultivate the traditions of Serbia's Liberation Wars. It is my opinion that this formulation should be extended and that it stands here, a council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia and the Serbian people's Liberation Wars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41458	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41459	Thank you. The greatest value of the War Memorial bill is that it clearly shows the relationship of the current government to those who once fought, in wars for the freedom of the country, gave what they had the most valuable, in fact they gave everything they had, they gave their life. The life of only one fallen fighter, one warrior, the liberator, the patriot, the patriot, is worth more than any of the most expensive monuments, is worth more than all the material or financial costs, than all the time and effort we spend, and we will invest in showing our friend and respect for them, according to their character and work, according to the sacrifice they gave for us, for our freedom and for our life. That's why, sometimes even sometimes, sometimes, not everyone was aware of their size and their sacrifice and that sometimes, in the years behind us, the victim forgot too quickly. Today, in this National Assembly, we are passing a law that will regulate this area in a comprehensive way with the aim of more effective maintenance, arrangement and protection of war memorials. By doing so, we will show our more responsible relationship with war memorials, but also our due respect for all who have defended their country, fought and gave their lives in this struggle. May these war memorials forever remind us of the sacrifices, the lives others have given for us and for our freedom. To those who have taken those lives from them, we will treat them as they deserve, we will forgive, if we can, and forget only if we are not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41460	National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41461	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a people who have often fought, we should not be surprised that some 6,000 Serb military cemeterys are located in about 50 countries around the world, from Austria, where there are up to 83 of them, through Italy, Hungary, Germany, Macedonia, Croatia, France, Albania, Tunisia, Algeria, all the way to Oceania and Canada. The Serbian cemetery is quite well maintained by our allies from World War I, especially in France, Greece, as well as Austria. However, in some foreign countries, many sprries have been deliberately forgotten and destroyed. The main reason for not maintaining, desecrating or even destroying in some countries is the policy of eradicating Serbian national identity from their territories. The most Serbian trails were destroyed in Macedonia, Albania, Croatia. To illustrate this state of action, I point out the SANU report, which states that 302 Serb soldiers and two World War I generals have been destroyed and covered in human feces in Valona. Also, traces of Serb military skeletons in Skadra, Lješ, Kavia are missing, although it is known that there were cemeterys of buried fighters from the Balkan and First World Wars. All of these reasons are that our country takes serious steps to kidnap Serb cemetery and military memorials from destruction and oblivion. After many years of neglect and abandonment, the government of the Republic of Serbia has set out to protect against further collapse of Serbia's cemetery and military memorials in the world. It does so through bilateral agreements, where Serbia assumes an obligation to take care of the countries' memorials in Serbia and those of Serbian memorials in its own territory. Where this is not possible, establishing such a mutual relationship with Serbian cemetery will worry through diplomatic and consular representations, whose legal obligation is to provide war memorial status reports to the ministry by September 30th of the current calendar year. In order to create such a legal framework, there is also a proposed law that regulates the issue of the protection of Serbian war memorials in the country and abroad, and in order to realise... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41462	I thank my colleague. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Palalic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is important to repeat once again in this debate that a significant shift has taken place in the country's relationship with our past, according to heroic deeds, in all that has contributed to the struggle for freedom and freedom of Serbia. It was this debate the past few days that showed all the difference and the understanding that the Serbian and Serb people should have according to their history and their ancestors. Earlier, he marked only oblivion, only accusation and a conscious division in the Serbian people on those Serbs who are in Serbia and others who are outside Serbia. It should be pointed out that each memory of the past contributes to the fact that we do not have our own future. Forgetting contributes to the reignation, forgetfulness contributes to the defetism, and forgetfulness contributes to losing responsibility for the country. But the most important contribution that took place in previous years is the development of awareness of the integrity of the Serbian people. Development of awareness that every Serb who has fallen for freedom is either in Serbia, in Republika Srpska, in the Republic of Serbia, in Montenegro, in Macedonia, a Serb hero, and that for every Serb wherever he lived, the youngest hero of Republika Srpska, Smonko Gostovic, is a Serbian hero. That Mojkovac is a common hero battle of the fame and suffering of the entire Serbian people. That the marking of the Storm by the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska is an example of how and how we experience the integrity of the Serbian nation and that we will never allow our heroes wherever they turn for Serbian freedom to be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41464	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pantovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41465	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity in these days of debate over this law to recall our glorious dukes, soldiers, the victories that our country has forever entered into the most important pages of world history. What needs to be pointed out is that in all these battles, the Serb people were always on the right side, on the side of truth and justice, and today, unlike many countries, and others in the environment, we can proudly remember these times. The Serbian people have never waged conquest wars, always waged liberating or defensive wars. Today, when we discuss this law that will certainly help never forget our history, I want to remember another event that takes a special place in the survival of the Serbian people. At this time, exactly 26 years ago, the Serbian people released the corridor, then called the corridor of life. And when I mentioned in the previous speech that the international community often had no understanding for our people, and then the reason for such an action was the decision not to allow the addition of oxygen from Belgrade to the birthplace in Banja Luka, and the consequences of such a decision, we all know well that they were tragic. The maestral victory of the Serb people, which killed 413 soldiers, brought the eastern and western parts of Republika Srpska together and strengthened its survival. Serbia and Republika Srpska today proudly mark these events and do not allow history to be forgotten to teach generations from it, and this law is the best solution to further strengthen its preservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41466	Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vujadinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41467	Thank you, Chairman. Article 3 of this legislative proposal involves the education of the Council for the Breeding of the Free Wars, but the Council's job is also to give opinions and suggestions for the regulation of war memorials. In 1994, in Subotica, citizens’ contributions, a war memorial was erected or a monument bearing the name of their fidelity. It includes the names of all those Subotians who, acting on a duty to the state, died in those wars of the 1990s, regardless of course, of faith and nation. But what happened afterwards does not serve the honour of either Subotics or Serbia. The memorial has not been maintained for over a decade and a half, and it has fallen into a state that we, the Subotians, cannot be proud of. I will remind you that even in the 1990s, the Saturday power was proud that the ruling coalition in the city, led by DOS parties, had continued in 2000, of course, and lasted, well, until recently. However, the condition of the monument is likely to symbolize their relationship with those people who gave their lives, but also their relationship with society at all. The 2016 initiative for the restoration of the monument came from the government of Aleksandr Vukic. The monument was restored and in 2017 completed works on its restoration and in 2017, Mayor Laban and then Minister Vulin were after much, much time the first to pass the weddings on the monument and, on the other hand, to talk about a new relationship with these people and to events from the early 1990s. I hope that this Council will contribute to the continuation of such a relationship with, of course, the hope that we will never again have the opportunity to participate in wars and to raise those war memorials as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41468	Thank you. National MP Mihajlo Jokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41469	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, in Article 3. The War Memorial Act is about the formation of a Council to deal with the cultivation of Serbia's tradition of Liberation Wars. It is not at all disputed and it is clear that this institution will function so that it will be a roof institution to take care of war memorials, but it is also indisputable and the fact that the Serbian people have a deep tradition, culture and respect for military war memorials. Of course, in the next period of time, both individuals and institutions at local and republican level, the NGO sector will be much easier to take care of both institutionally and physically and in maintaining these memorials, if we bear in mind the fact that the Republic of Serbia today is an economically strong and well-organised state. If you have GDP growth, which in the first months of 2018 is at 4.6%, and that is the second practical growth in Europe, then it says that our ancestors, and each of our families, practically, has someone in that memorial and these memories, can take more and more active care of their tradition. When we talk about GDP growth, we're actually talking about three things in a theoretical sense. We're talking about industrial development, industrialization, buying new machines, we're talking about increasing the number of jobs, and these two combinations of course give a third combination, which is the level of productivity. If you look at the level of foreign investment in Serbia in 2017, which is 2.6 billion, assuming that foreign investment in Serbia will be 2.7 billion in 2018, it is certainly the largest growth in foreign investment and the largest level of foreign investment in the Balkans at the moment. This, as well as other assumptions of economic development, contributes to the respect and preservation of our tradition being only stronger and more striking.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41470	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Ana Charapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41471	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 3. The draft law on war memorials aimed at indicating how important it is to cultivate tradition, but also the functioning of the state administration in the process of protecting, preserving and restoring existing and building new war memorials to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The law provides for a central record of deceased persons, and this certainly has a huge importance for scientific and research work, and we all know that scientific and research work plays a vital role in the overall development of each country, including the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government units, headed by the SNS, are the most engaged in the development of tourism, whether it is war memorials, whether it is the marking of jubilee because tourism is certainly a significant medium of economic development of every economy, including ours. I point out that in the municipality of Kursumli, where I come from, for the first time in 850 years, the jubilee of the first indemnity of Germany is marked. So local self-government headed by the SNS has allocated significant funds to mark the jubilee eight and a half centuries since Stefan Nemanje's first post, the progeny of the Germanic line. The municipality of Kursumli, led by the SNS, has singled out as many as a million dinars from the municipal budget to paint murals in the city centre with the aim of making the first association on our municipality Nemanjeci. So both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government units headed by the SNS are all working to encourage the development of tourism, and the number of tourists from year to year, whether they are domestic or foreign tourists, testifying that we have succeeded in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41472	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Krivokapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41473	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues have been defined through Article 3rd, i.e. the current position, the education of the Council, to which I have submitted the third amendment, which adds Article 2 which reads: education of the Council provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities. Through our history, we have never been destitute in heroes who, with their courage and martial arts, inspired generations of Serbs. Our country is located on one of the most beautiful parts of the world, intersections of civilizations, religions and cultures, military and economic roads. That is why our country, or country in the last centuries, was on the map of every conqueror, a country that was to be conquered and enslaved, taken, and some even the ultimate goal was to destroy us. The conquerors came from all sides. They wouldn't let us put together a century where we wouldn't fight by defending ourselves. The Serb soldier defended his house and his hearth, but thus defended the east and west and north and south. He weakened and stopped the conquerors and the thugs. That is why Serbia's history is a history of defence and liberation wars, a free force to save its country and its people, as well as other countries and peoples. Serbia has always been proud of its army, its warriors, who have never fought conquest wars in their centuries of history, and have always written their name on the side of the righteous. World War I monuments are on the whole territory of Serbia, but also wider. They are generally little known because the locations and information about them are to a certain extent inaccessible to the public. There are many such monuments, healed in weeds with faded and licked inscriptions. The paths and paths to them are unsettled. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41474	Thank you, colleague Krivokapic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41475	I thank you, Chairman Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with an associate, in Obilić, with the Major, raised a memorial mark for the warriors from these parts who died in the First World War. The residents of the Major and the surrounding towns have suffered severely in Bulgarian atrocities in these areas, and have made a major contribution to the Warm Uprising as its participants. In the place where more than 500 civilians, soldiers, soldiers from the neighbouring Dragovac, mostly women, children, old people, were shot in 1942, the Bulgarian occupiers shot more than 500 civilians, soldiers, soldiers from neighbouring Dragovac, mostly women, children, old people, there is a memorial grave, where a memorial assembly is held each year and reads "The Charter of the Living". The last decade of the 20th century has passed as a sign of civil wars and ended with NATO bombings on Serbia. Many Leskovci and the locals of the surrounding villages died in these wars, where families and grateful citizens raised monuments at the place of life. Especially severe consequences and permanent voids left the bridge bombing at the Gredelillian ravine on April 12, 1999. On a passenger train passing by, life lost 15 and 44 passengers were wounded. In this place, a monument was erected to the victims of NATO aggression in SR Yugoslavia, which the town of Leskovac, given the importance of the monument, is regularly old. One of the most significant landmarks from the time of the First World War in southern Serbia is in Surdulica, where in November 1915, some 3,000 Serbs from all parts of the Kingdom of Serbia were killed and massacred until the end of the war. In Surdulica, a committee was formed to raise monuments to killed Serbs who issued a declaration in October 1919 to all Serbs, Croats and Slovenians for the collection of voluntary contributions to the raising of the monument. The foundation stone was set on Vidovdan, 28 June 1922, and then the building of a unique complex of schools and memorial cosmetics began.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41476	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Parezenovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41477	Thank you. A council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars is being educated to give an opinion on a proposal to edit the war memorial and remove the war memorial. One of the sacred sites or memorial monuments is the Serb military cemetery on Zeytinlik, which is located in Thessaloniki and its part houses the graves of Serbian, French, Italian, English and Russian soldiers who were killed in the fighting and breach of the Thessaloniki Front in World War I. The cemetery complex has been erected in an area where the Serbian Army's Chief Military Hospital, which has also formed the Cemetery for the deceased, has grown into today's complex since 1916. The Serbian cemetery is a central part of the Zeitinlik complex. At its centre is a chapel beneath which is a skeleton that burys 5,580 Serb warriors killed on the Thessaloniki front. Around the mausoleum chapel with the skeleton there are ten plots where 1,448 warriors are buried. As part of the Serbian cemetery, there is the so-called "Serb Cemetery". The Partizan cemetery, where 126 interns and captive Partisans were buried who lost their lives in the Nazi camps of Pavlov Mela and Harneker in Thessaloniki during World War II. The Serbian military cemetery in Thessaloniki in Zeitinlik every day visits more people than the French, English and Italian military cemetery in a year. More than seven and a half thousand Serbian heroes were buried on Zeitinlik. According to Djorđa Mihajlovic, a legendary guard, only Serbian heroes survived the goalie because no English, French or other worker died of hunger. Uncle Gjole, whom everyone calls grace, Uncle Gjolet, I personally met at Zeitinlik, is a patriot over patriots. This unusual man, the guardian of the Serb graves of our ancestors, for whom we live in peace today, this noble man serves as a proud citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41478	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41479	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I all wonder if this law is just a straw amongst the storms or if Serbia has finally decided to rise from the ashes, to move a high-ranking forehead into the future and to tell every evildoer who is on her way – the stupor, aside, goes to honorable Serbia with its famous ancestors. To never again defend us from reading the Book of Milutin, that our generations can sing freely "Who says it, who lies, Serbia is small", "I am, Jeremiah", "Oy, Duke of Siljelic", to rekindle fire on a monument in the Presidential Park across Serbia's Palace and that fire symbolizes the death of innocent victims in a brutal criminal attack carried out by NATO aggressor with 19 other EU countries in 1999. That no one can ever, ever, ban a Serb from being proud of his past, that no one can ever tell us that we were aggressors. How can we be aggressors in our country? We have defended our country and our people. We are the liberators, we are the defenders of our people. I hope that we will still come to our senses and that we will not attack each other, that it will not happen to us, as recently in this assembly, when the President of the Slovak Parliament said that Slovakia will never recognise Kosovo's independence, that one part of this hall is not applauding. We have to be unique. We need to understand that Serbia is our only country and that we are fighting for it. We must be worthy of our ancestors, in order for the future, or offspring, to respect us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41480	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41481	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, without establishing a council to cultivate the traditions of Serbia's Liberation Wars, there is no effective formation of the moral-patriot feelings of our students and our students. If Sasa Jankovic, known as Sale Prangi, had had the sense to cultivate the traditions of Serbia's Liberation Wars, he and his party colleague, Prof. Dr. Rade Veljanovski, called Rade Ayr, would not have said, I quote -- that the platform of their movement is recognition of Kosovo's independence, Metohija and UN chairs. It's a finished quote. Only someone who's completely out of their minds can say that. And if Sasa Jankovic – Sale Prangi, lost his mind, his party colleague, the respected academic Dusan Teodorovic, who said, quoted me as saying, "Never during my long career, in the country and abroad, did I make such a mistake in assessing the working skills and moral code as it did with Sasa Jankovic." It's a finished quote. It is good that a respected academic has come to know that Sasa Jankovic is a moral freak, but I urge him to apologize to the Serbian advanced party and to Aleksandr Vukic for the insults he has told them. It'll be fair and in the style of an academic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41482	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Comrade Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41483	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Respected Minister Djordjevic, the respected citizens of Serbia, Serbia has been waging liberating rather than conquering wars. We were attacked, conquered, lost but always came back as winners. Memories must be in the spirit of Serbia's state-state free-wars. No one who has committed crimes against the Serbian people can have a memorial mark in our country. Opinion on proposals for regulating or removing war memorials, as envisioned by the bill, will provide advice on the cultivation of Serbia's tradition of liberation wars, which will be composed of prominent historians, university professors and academics. On the basis of the opinion of the council and the relevant monument protection institutions, the solution to the arrangement or removal of the memorials is made exclusively by the minister. Thanks to this bill, as well as its adoption, precise provisions will be made on which mention marks can be placed and we will no longer find ourselves in a situation where some mention marks violate the feelings of Serbian citizens. One of the primary objectives of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs is the protection of all war and military memorials in our country's territory, but also beyond our borders. We thus preserve our history and memories of all those who have given their lives for their beloved homeland. I would also like to commend the planned reconstruction of the cemetery for the liberators of Belgrade. I call on my respected and respected colleagues to support this law in the voting day, of course, if you have the strength and the time, and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41484	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41485	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, the new War Memorial Act is a codification of the current rules, and three laws that contained this matter. The main objective of this law is the more efficient functioning of the state administration in the process of protecting the regular and investment maintenance of war memorials, as well as the establishment of records and the introduction of new war memorials. This law will ensure more efficient maintenance, editing and financing of war memorials, strengthen responsibility and efficiency of local self-government units, and create conditions to protect our cultural heritage. Since the day of entry into force of this law, the consent to set up war memorials will be given by the ministry responsible for fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, which I certainly welcome, because I believe that war memorials are part of our past, but also a guideline for the future. And this really has to be cared for by the state, not local self-government. The organized and preserved war memorials will not only preserve the forgetfulness of a great deal of our ancestors who gave their lives for the freedom of this country, but will become part of our tourist offer, and I certainly welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41486	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41487	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to regulate an area that deals with the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, the draft law on the agenda defines in Article 3 that a council will be formed in order to address the issue of regulating the war memorial and removing the war memorial. In the next text of the Bills, when the composition of the Council is looked at, which includes one of the other members of the class of professors, one member from the ranks of prominent figures in the field of science and art, it is evident that it is important to respect science, profession and that is how this Government works. In making decisions in the work, responsible management will implement the SNS programme, take care of all areas of importance for the lives of citizens, such as this: the care of tradition, the care of cultural heritage, and all this is important for the future of our people. By implementing this law, including all relevant institutions, by determining competence, by providing all elements, from working resources, from keeping records, from the necessary infrastructure, to the responsible implementation of the budget, the development of the Republic of Serbia is certainly ensured. The President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has, by their work, shown efficiency through such laws on the agenda respecting the people who gave their lives to free our country and those who face the consequences of the wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41488	Thank you. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41489	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the positive effect of this law can also be measured by material values, such as the care of the state and the dignified memory of the dead through the protection of war memorials. The essence of the law is that the corrections of a decade of care in which there was no legal solution, and when any local self-government could set up any monument, it does not account for what message it sends to future generations. A council will be educated to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars in order to take a comprehensive look at the need to give opinions and initiatives to improve the protection of war memorials. On the territory of Podrinj and Mačvanski County there is unfortunately a large number of skeletons and war graves from the First and Second World War, which are the following: the mention of a skeleton on Gučev, Cer in the village of Tekerish, on the Mac’s Stone, in Majur, Draginac, Šapac, on the mountain of Jagodnja, in Prnjavor, in Jalovik; then mentions the churches in Krupnje, on Bezjak, in Mojković, in Velika Rež, in Dubrovnik. A truly large list of cemeteries and many more victims who have given their lives for our freedom deserve never to be forgotten. These graves are not crabs, but cradles of new forces, wrote by famous poet Jovan Jovanovic Dragon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41490	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic Pavlovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41491	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the people, respected citizens of Serbia, the Kingdom of Serbia during the First World War, the aid to the Serbian Sanity was first provided by Scottish women with three hospitals and a transport unit. Sanitation missions have also come from other parts of the Commonwealth, Australia, New Zealand, Canada. A total of 60 women arrived, starting with a nurse and a driver of sanitary vehicles to doctors and surgeons. They were the excellently equipped transport units that took over the most significant part - the evacuation of the wounded from Goriševska Battle and from Kamakcalan. The arrival of the Krf has disbanded nearly all of the former Serbian sanity institutions, and the new organisation was established after the signing of the Agreement on 6 April 1916 in Paris. Parts of the French-Serbian Agreement concerning the Sanitary Service organisations were for Serbs in many unfavourable ways. The war effort of the Serb army and the Serb people in the First World War, its dream of military and civil, suffered great casualties: 122 killed and died a doctor, one dentist, 25 foreign doctors in the Serbian army, 20 dead medical students, four senior doctors, 11 captured doctors working in Serbian military hospitals. How during World War I, besides soldiers and civilians, domestic and foreign health workers were killed, I call on fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41492	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41493	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People, I will begin my presentation with a sentence that, I would say, is very important – a people who do not respect their own history, has no future either. Namely, all together, therefore, we must respect all those ancestors, all those warriors who have laid down their lives for our freedom. I'm going to take a special look at the role of women today, especially in World War I. The role of the woman in World War I was particularly difficult because of tradition, because of the patriarchal morality was not allowed, there was no understanding of the participation of the woman in the war. However, many of our heroines have found their way to the front lines. Many women, above all, by posing themselves as men, were able to reach the most exclusive regiments of the Serb army at the time. I mention Milunka Savic, a Serbian heroine, who was born in the vicinity of the Josian bathe, who applied to the Serbian army in 1912 as Milun Savic and who until 1913 was warring under that name – Milun Savic and only the medics, therefore, in the hospital, when she was badly wounded, were found to be female. I will mention Milunka Savic because Milunka is the winner of the Karadjordje star with swords, the winner of the Order of the French Legion of Honor, the Russian Cross, the French Order War Cross with the golden palm. She's the only woman in the world who's got that war medal. I will also mention Flora Sans, the British nurse, and Sofia Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41494	Thank you, colleague Laketić. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go, colleague Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41495	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when submitting the amendments, we find negative reactions by one part of the opposition so-called, under the name of the second Serbian circle of intellectuals. By being open against Serbia's strategic interests, the quasi elite is shaped in one part of the opposition, who knows which path shows that it does not care about the survival of Serbs as a people, but only to the taking of power. These people who came from the street into politics, the elite, under the assumption, still didn't learn the difference between destroying the government and destroying the state. Before I begin to explain the amendments, I must say that I have received e-mails in which citizens of Gadjin Han Municipality ask me to, as a national MP, who worked as a doctor in that municipality, mentioning from the assembly pay phone and the arrangement of the birth home of Dragutin Matic from the village of Kaletin, since they have not yet had the understanding of the municipal authorities and the president of Sasa Djordjevic municipality. Dragutin Matic, or more commonly known as the "eye of the Falcon", is the famous Serb soldier scout whose picture is found in all Serbian historical readers and textbooks. His home is in a poor, ruined state, so this is a moment to take action in terms of its restoration and preservation from further collapse. I am very sorry that Ambassador Zivkovic is not in the O.R. today because he, since he comes from these areas, from his hometown of Chagrovac, from the Cubrini family...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41496	I thank my colleague, Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41497	... Just a moment to finish. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41498	You can't. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Turk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41499	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Third Article of the War Memorial Act to further define the content of this article. Given that this article is about editing, the protection and maintenance of these monuments is very important to talk about this topic, especially when it comes to funding and the relation of local self-government and the Republic, when it comes to war memorials and monuments. Article 3 provides for the establishment of a council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, and it is precisely the aim of forming this council to consider proposals relating to the regulation of war memorials. It is our duty to remember, to remember and appreciate the heroic sacrifices that have been laid for freedom, and just by raising these memorials, we do. In this way we show only a fraction of our gratitude for heroism and sacrifice, our gratitude for the prematurely interrupted, always too young, our lives, for the sake of our country's defense, our flag and the future of our country. It is our duty to discuss the exploits of these heroes and their heroic deaths. We owe it to remember and never to let these sufferings and tragedies happen again. By keeping memories of victims and lost lives, we make sure that we do not repeat history and make sure that we continue to resolve all disagreements exclusively by dialogue and by peaceful means. Our country is abounding with monuments, and I really must mention that in Triestenik, an initiative has been launched to create a monument in memory of the victims of World War I, because only 4,500 soldiers died in Triestenik, a truly huge sacrifice, and so far there has been no such initiative. There is a monument to Raki Ljutovac, who hit an enemy plane from the cannon and shot him down and was then decorated with a two-sword Karajordian star. But there was no such monument to the victims of World War I, and Triestenik will soon, in 2018, have one such monument.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41500	I'd like to thank my colleague Turk. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41501	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I have already pointed out that war memorials are a very good quality and attractive tourist offer. Memory tourism can be a lucrative business with significant revenues for local self-government. The last few years, with the rise of foreign tourists and the development of social networks, interest in such monuments has been growing continuously in Serbia, which in this segment has and how to offer, especially those dedicated to the victims of World War II, when the memorial complexes were raised by our most significant architects, painters and knights of the postwar period. I would take the opportunity, Your Honor, to commend the Law on Financial Support for families with children. With this legal solution, the parental allowance is increased by the second, third and fourth children, and the period of payment of the right for the third and fourth children extends from 24 to 120 months. The provisions of the Financial Support Act for families with children are part of the overall social care for children and relate to improving the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children, is particularly encouraged to give birth and support to materially-hazarded families with disabilities in development, disability and children without parental ageing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41502	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, fellow Manojlovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this amendment further defines Article 3 of this Act. Education of advice made up of professional people will lead to a better approach to decision-making and maintenance of the memorials. What this council still characterises is that the workloads of all seven members of the council are free of financial compensation, so no activity has been paid. And that's what makes us different here from the previous government, and it's characteristic of them that whenever the representatives of the former government hear there's no cash compensation, if they hadn't already left the O.R., they'd have run away at least now. We've heard all sorts of things, sermons on these amendments, so here they say the SNS doesn't respect the victims because it's submitted to the amendments. I would just like to say that thanks to you, Mr. Minister, who are at the head of this resolution ministry and member of the SNS is this law today in the procedure and that shows enough concern for the SNS of the victims in this country, and therefore these amendments of ours cannot in any way dispute the fact that the SNS today shows to care for the victims, unlike those, since we know that 40 years have not been in the process, they have been more than a decade and never thought they should look back on this very important topic. Then we had one here who dares to talk about Lazarus's town, and who knows only about Krushevec and Lazarev's town by the shape of a bottle that is his best memorial every morning when he wakes up... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41504	I thank my colleague Manojlovich. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here's my colleague Bulatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41505	I thank the chairman. The amendment further defines the content of the law. The proposed law creates the necessary conditions for the protection of our cultural heritage related to wartimes. By editing and maintaining war memorials, we cultivate traditions for future generations because besides languages, letters, history, customs and beliefs, and immovable cultural heritage is one of the identification codes of each nation. Local self-government in Vranj is very active in protecting the arrangements and maintaining war memorials. The town of Vranje has provided for 65 members of families of fighters and wartime military disableds with one-time cash aid of 12,000 dinars, and three families are also provided with accommodation. In order to cultivate revolutionary traditions of all the Liberation Wars, and over seven decades of SUBNOR, the town board of SUBNOR in Vranj publishes a monograph that is part of the local history of Vranja and the environment. The rich content of the book shows that local self-government in Vranje with SUBNOR cherished the quality of all free wars since the First Serbian uprising and the Serbian-Turkish wars until the last war of 1999. The special chapter of monograph speaks of memorials and all mentions of the deaths in armed conflicts and NATO aggression. A list of all monuments was made and it was found that 32 monuments were erected by World War II, including three Russian monuments. After World War II, 100 features were erected to preserve memories of the anti-fascist struggle and prominent fighters of the crowous region in World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41506	The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Cokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41507	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, has been under review for several days now by law on war memorials, which, as we know, has been valid for 40 years from the time of the former Yugoslavia. From that period, he changed a lot, and we needed to change the law. War memorials are important to maintain in the right way from all wars that were liberating, and in order for us to do so, we need to fill the budget, too, in order to do other jobs that we want to do, we need to fill the budget. In order to fill the budget, it is necessary to open as many jobs as possible that automatically cause and that our children do not go abroad but stay here. The more employees we have, the more money we'll make, and it'll be hard to find a worker, not hire them. To correct the differences that exist in our society, it is necessary that the advice we name be written by those who were heroes in World War I and who were decorated in World War I, and after World War II, were declared traitors. Their names should be listed so they know. I'm not asking for monuments to be erected, but for the record, if there's going to be any stone on which their names will be placed, if we don't, they'll do some generations that come after us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41508	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41509	I thank the chairman. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been listening to these experts across the street for days complaining that they don't understand the amendments we've submitted to the War Memorial bill. It is clear to me that they understand nothing in this sense, when it comes to war memorials, when it comes to fostering the tradition of free wars, monuments, national identity, etc. You know, while they were running the country, in Serbia it was almost forbidden to talk about the memory of our ancestors, the memory of our heroes from all the Liberation Wars. What was specifically forbidden was forbidden to speak of Serbian victims. That was strictly forbidden. During this period, God forbid anyone to mention, that someone remembers Serbian victims, it is immediately characterized as a great Serbian nationalism, such as chauvinism, as a war policy of war, don't let God mention the "Medical pocket" and "Storm" and "Blash" and all other casualties in the area of the former SFRY, it would immediately be characterized as calling for conflicts, as primitiveism, as a return to the past, etc. The only thing to talk about was the pious guilt of the Serbs for everything that's ever happened. If we understand each other, they'd be doing it today if they were in power. Fortunately, they're not and they won't be, and I'm calling for us to adopt a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41510	Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41511	The Honorable Chairman, Minister Djordjevic and his associate, the adoption of the Memorial Law is an obligation to all deaths in past wars, as well as to the future of our children and grandchildren. I must note that a people who quickly forget the suffering of their people can repeat that suffering, which has happened in history. With the wise policy led by this government and its President, Aleksandar Vukic, I am sure that the death of our people will no longer occur in Serbia or in other areas where Serbs live. I live in Resnik, a place that today has 20,000 inhabitants, and at the beginning of the Balkan wars, then also the First World War Resnik had 450 households. After the end of World War I, the loss of male household members records a figure of 150 men. Some of them stayed in the camps of Hungary, Austria, Germany. Some of them didn't survive that googogue. Many died of typhoid in a Valjev hospital, and some immediately after the end of the war of exhaustion. Tragedy was so much bigger that it happened not to return from one family, e.g. A father and two sons. As far as I know, the memory behind the war was made by descendants, but the lack of attention of individuals brought the monument down, and the record of names was thrown away. This law is just going in this direction to restore that monument and correct all mistakes from the past of those who have been careless toward our historical past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41512	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41513	The esteemed chairman, esteemed ministers, fellow MPs, is extremely important to the adoption of the War Memorial Act as a way of dealing primarily with issues of quality concern, maintaining protection and arrangements of war memorials. Worrying about war memorials is our relationship to the famous but martyrly past of our people and we must realize that in the previous period she was not always at an envious level. Unlike some previous ones, and especially those of the Dossian period, the current Republic Government, as before, have done so much and shown their relationship to hundreds of thousands of heroes who have selflessly sacrificed their lives over the past decades, so that we today and tomorrow our descendants live in peace and freedom. The Serbian people in world history are recognized as a free nation with a deep tradition of anti-fascism, a people who have always waged exclusively liberating wars. As many as the last three decades of individual centres of world power have tried to satanicize the Serbian people and to give them a historical role that doesn't belong to him, it is our duty to fight for the truth that is read – the Serbian people have never sinned, and the Serbian people have never taken the wrong side, the Serbian people have never asked for the price of freedom, and many of our peoples can't boast of such a heroic struggle and such a sacrifice and much greater people can learn from our people how to love and defend freedom, and our relationship with our ancestors is a guide to our descendants how to treat us. During this three-day debate, we had the opportunity to hear extremely inappropriate comments from one part of the opposition, as well as cynical issues, such as those in which wars the Serbian people won. It does not matter what wars the Serbian people have won, as this depends on other circumstances.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41514	Thank you. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 4 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41515	It's a shame that the good part of this debate was without direct television coverage, because I think most of the debate was a sort of education. We've been reminded of many significant events, many significant people from our past. It is up to you, Minister Djordjevic, that now that this law is in force, really do at least what the law says, to fight for certain means, when the budget is made, because this all really deserves it. Don't be like what happened a few years ago when the Belgrade SRS city board led the campaign to name the bridge on Ada after Draža Mihailovic, because it was an invitation from the City Assembly to propose names for the bridge. We have information that the most suggestions were to be the Draža Mihailovic bridge, we have also submitted thousands of signatures with this proposal, but not to be suggested by Serbian radicals, the bridge has been named Most on Ada. It could've been a bridge across the river. We've also initiated that this boulevard at Tosha's well gets a name for the heroes of Koshar and that is accepted, but it's not written anywhere that we've also run a campaign, we've been collecting signatures, I just think it's important to know. It seems to me that there is one unanimous message of this debate, unanimity, because it will not be unanimous in voting, but one-hearted, I don't count on these Gilas's minorities, messages to both the president of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that no one must ever think of giving up KIM... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41516	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marija Janjušević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41517	Here, it's a debate, no more time for amendments. This law is an opportunity, Mr. Minister, you're a young man, but you're probably a descendant of both heroes or your close and distant relatives, to correct the historical injustice. That's why I'm going to talk again about one piece of what we've been talking about all these days, and that's the famous anti-fascist role of General Draža Mihailovic and his Chetniks. And an opportunity to mention all the cities that Draža Mihailovic's Chetniks, under occupied German rule, freed in Serbia. This is Loznica, already mentioned by Radeta colleague, under the command of Colonel Misite Vesetina on 31 August 1941, Bogotić on 1 September 1941, Krupanj on 4 September 1941, Banja Koviljac on 6 September 1941, Gornji Milanovac on 29 September 1941, Čačak on 1 October 1941, I am pleased to say this because my grandfather was one of the participants of this battle for Cačak, Stragari on 4 October 1941, LJubovija on 1 October 1941, Prepolje on 12 September 1943, Priboj 12 September 1943 and Zvornik on 12 September 1943. Unlike this kind of heroism, which the Chetniks had under the command of General Draža Mihailovic, we were able yesterday from this unfortunate Boško Obradovic to hear that he continues to celebrate Ljotic, who, and members of his volunteer guard assembly, were even on the front against the Russian Soviets. One boasted that he would raise 10,000 Latvians to wage war against the Russians. Since he failed and failed, several hundred were collected.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41518	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41519	As for the education of councils to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars and its composition of seven members, we believe there should have been more professional and fewer members of the state administration. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are at the very end of this debate that was quite constructive, regardless of all attempts by those who call themselves opposition. The opposition, yes, but to the opposition in Serbia. I was quite skeptical when I saw the agenda for this session and when you chose this very law to discuss it in particular. But now after all this debate, I see this is a good solution, and why? I think I am alone, and a lot of you, as well as a lot of Serbian citizens, could hear a lot of things useful and, for a moment, remind ourselves of our glorious history and the high price of freedom paid by hundreds and hundreds of thousands of victims. It does not need to be reminded of what the largest Serb sites were, but this is a unique opportunity to say something about those very little is known about. I will mention the mention of the Udovo chapel, in Valandovo municipality of Valandovo, in the south of Macedonia, along the Skopje-Devgelija-Solun highway. The monument was erected by King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, devoting it to fallen Serbian fighters, mainly in the struggles against the Turkish occupier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41520	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41521	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already been through a debate in detail about the importance of caring about war memorials and how important it is to show respect for all our ancestors who have given their lives for our freedom. The victims of the Serb people in all the Liberation Wars are enormous and it is our duty to treat them with special respect and respect. The rich and famous history of the victims, the injuries and all Serbian sites are just being witnessed by all these monuments we're talking about. So I would remind you of the Kumanov battle in which 1,207 officers, officers and soldiers were killed, and 5,217 Serb warriors were wounded. The memory of the Zebrnjak skeleton is dedicated to the fallen Serbian soldiers of this famous battle and this mention of the skeleton has been declared a monument of culture. However, at the end of World War II, Bulgarian occupiers brought down Obelisk and remained the very foundation with the skeleton. As the issue of protection remains unresolved, the facility has collapsed, even the bones have been unprotected for longer periods of time. So I would ask you, Minister, is the reconstruction of the facility planned, given that certain problems existed between the unresolved institutional and state bodies of Serbia and Macedonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41522	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. A bill on war memorials. It's not enough just to put all the memorial sites in and out of our country's territory. We in the SRS think that our daily relationship with those who have built their lives into the foundations of our country is much more important than that. What that relationship is, we all know, it's not what it's supposed to be. However, it's not just the case with this authority, it's been before. This relationship is best seen through our education system, because every new edition of history textbooks devalues what this law says. Not only that, not to pay enough attention to the history books of these things, these textbooks even forge historical facts and increasingly promotes the culture of some other peoples and other cultures and other values, and what is appropriate to the Serbian people and one Serbian host is slowly suppressed. EU fanatics teach us that it is a national identity and that national values are a overcome thing, and of course that is not the case. If that's not the case, we can best see now on the case of the football world championship held in Russia, where we can notice that all fans, all countries, are heartily behind their national selections and that, let's say, one stage of world football is one of a kind of opportunity and a kind of event of mobilization around national unity, national goals, etc. Regardless of our European path, however national values are something that can't... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41524	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby set a regular break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue to work further. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41526	Mr. Arsic, dear Minister, good afternoon. Well, let me tell you, therefore, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 concerning the composition of a council to give an opinion on the order or removal of military and war memorials. So, what's our idea? That most in this council are, exactly, experts in science, art history, history in general, that people from the university, people from the Institute for the Protection of Monuments because, in fact, the role of the advice is to give an opinion on the arrangement of a military memorial. It is therefore very important that this opinion be based on the profession, on history, and it is therefore important that most of this council have people from the scientific sphere, from history, from the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, not people from the state administration. I think this amendment is better than your proposed solution and I think you should reconsider adopting this amendment. You didn't know yourself, Minister, when you came to parliament, that you came with a multi-disciplinary law that would sort out, approximately, according to the amendments of the ruling majority all in this country. So, I don't think this law is going to solve everything in this country, especially I don't think it can solve digitisation, centralised, decentralisation, etc., electronic administration, dinar course, economy, but I think we should talk about this law with dignity, with respect to the heroism that victims of our people's freedom and our country have put backwards throughout history, and that's why I think we should get this debate back to where it belongs. Let's talk about this law, these solutions, because, Minister, you need to know that you have to participate...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41527	Thank you, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41528	Well, I have time for a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41529	No, you don't. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41530	I've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41531	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41532	Look at the electronic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41533	Just a minute. I'm sorry, you have, go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41534	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41535	I'm sorry, I said. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41536	So, Minister, you have to get involved because the debate just for two days, a shameful debate, is going on in parliament about this law that we really need, according to which we need to show respect. First of all, respect for this debate, we show respect for the victims who have been back in the First World War, in the Second World War of Victims, gave their lives for freedom and for the development of this society. We're talking to such misbehaves. It's a disgrace to parliament. You need to get involved. First of all, you've given an explanation that these amendments do not affect the essence. Well, say it one more time. Stop this kind of debate and we need to put it back where it deserves to be addressed with dignity to solutions like this. Once again, I urge you, first, to accept this amendment, and then to engage in this debate and remove any suspicion that these amendments are not and will not bring any development, but to any of these species that we can read in the amendments, that this law will bring development and bring our country's decentralisation, that it will affect the course of the dinar, that it will affect the development of what, tourism in Serbia. Get involved in the debate and remove such doubts. Say it - it's a shame to talk about it that way and let's talk about the essence. We have submitted several amendments and we think it will be important to discuss this and to significantly improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41537	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41538	First of all, I urge you to read the law carefully, obviously you have not passed beyond Article 4. Article 5 says the advice brings the rules of procedure. We have a lot of professional people and certainly institutions that should be on the council, but that would be one conglomerate, and the Rules of Procedure usually says that the President of the Council has the right to call on the subject and other professional people from another professional institution, most often writes, and that is what Article 5 says. So there is no need to make any conglomerates, but to make decisions that will be in the interest of the Serbian state, and decisions will be made by inviting professional people on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41539	The right is not a replica, firstly, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41540	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say that the MPs of the majority here in the National Assembly, that is, the MPs of the SNS and its coalition partners, and that for two days today, this is the third day, with all due respect and piety, have treated all the victims killed in the people's liberation wars. Also, with all due respect, we came to this law that first government, after 40 years, brings here before the MPs. Therefore, we pride ourselves on discussing this law and are proud of all the sacrifices they have given their lives for the freedom of our country. I think it's a shame that the MPs of the yellow company in different forms of appearance did not honor these two days in the assembly room. They came to the mosses, mostly to carry out disdain, probably for all those fighters who gave their lives for our freedom. Also, I have to point out that Article 4. The bill, as regards the composition of the Council, which otherwise numbers seven members, is in no way question neither historical knowledge nor the knowledge of representatives coming from the sphere of prominent representatives of science and art, nor the knowledge of those whose representative should be from the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. Perhaps the representatives of the yellow company in different variants are bothered by the fact that this member of the law provides that no compensation is provided for the work of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41541	Thank you. Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41542	Thank you, Chairman. What's funny about this debate and this bill at all is the fact that every law you've been proposing over the past few months has served to balance that patriotic capacity, which has disappeared and melted the moment your SNS list supported Ramush Haradinaj to become president of the Kosovo government. From then on, everything you suggest serves exclusively for marketing purposes. You have recently called for a big enough concern from a republican level when it comes to the protection of cultural monuments, a big enough concern for everything that is in Serbia in some way and a part of cultural heritage. Here, for example, in Kursumlia, I don't know if you know, while you're proposing this law memorial-bone is full of garbage, and dogs take bones out of the skeleton. So that's the essence of the picture and the opportunity of the situation you brought Serbia to. On the other hand, you're suggesting, because you're also going to pay off a little bit to the heroes of Koshar, on the one hand, so you can make them a memorial because they tragically lost their lives in that war, and on the other hand, you don't know how to explain to them that they've given their lives in vain in the war, so you want to repay them in this way that you're going to build a monument, because he's lost his life in your wrong policy. For this reason this debate is more than ridiculous and pathetic, on your part to the end of the dishonesty, because all we've heard is a yellow company on the one hand, and on the other hand, all you're doing is muddy the ones you've made miserable in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41543	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41544	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advocating the violation of article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly. As you could see, well, here, all day long, when they arrive in the first and second shift, one goes to sober up, and the other comes back or gets up late, we work here hard all day so that someone will insult from a completely failed yellow company, all those people who left their bones on various battlefields and sites so that this country can be free, so today this country can develop, that our children have a place to live, and found someone to talk about, what's funny and what's not funny. Well, the citizens of Serbia remember very well the politics of the yellow company and my predecessor Balša Bozovic, as they set up business space in Belgrade, so that from the money of the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, the couples who remained in debt to pregnant women, 390 million dinars, as they flew and wintered through the Maldives, as they were shopping for the most expensive shopping malls in Europe, as they had millions of euros of pastures, as they had expensive cars, expensive watches. It is enough for the citizens of Serbia, and the citizens of Serbia no longer want to see such things directly, and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and that in the next period of any insults, not only to the MPs of the SNS, but to the victims of all the occupiers who had previously harassed Serbia, everyone who killed our people, that those who say that the debate on war memorials is funny, that you give such a warning. It is an insult to the citizens of Serbia, it is an insult to our ancestors, it is an insult to each of us who is normal in this assembly hall and in the state of Serbia. Every normal person after their exposure remains only to be crossed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41545	My colleague Filipovic, I don't think the provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been violated. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Serbian Filipovic: No. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41546	Thank you, Chairman. I really don't know when the previous speaker was the last time and if he was even in Kursumlia, so he could talk about the situation down there.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41547	My colleague, which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41548	Members 106 and 107 were injured, but the previous speaker pointed to the violation of Article 107. When the previous speaker Balsa Bozovic was in Kursumlia, so that he can speak about the situation and how clean our city is and do dogs really blow bones off the skeleton? That's really not true. The city of Kurzumli was never cleaner than during the ruling coalition, the SNS, and the locals of my municipality know it well. As for cultural and historical monuments, and how we invest in the maintenance of cultural and historical monuments. That's the number of tourists visiting the municipality of Kurzumli. There are more and more from year to year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41549	I also don't think I've hurt that member of the Rules of Procedure you've advertised. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in voting day? (Anna Charapic: No.) ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41550	Thank you, Chairman. If I didn't miss something by accident, I'd be advertised for Article 104's injury. If I'm not mistaken, you gave Mr. Balsha the right to the replica, I don't know on what basis, because it was neither mentioned by name nor mentioned by the Democratic Party. It's a yellow company. If they're identified as a yellow company, I'm just asking you to find out if there's a new party, some new parliamentary group here called the yellow company, so let's know what we have to take care of and how. I don't think there was any basis for replication and that you hurt Article 104 because tomorrow they might find and recognize each other in a slip association. It's what makes a redbeard, an alliance of thieves and con men. I don't see that it can be a basis for replication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41551	I also don't think the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that you've advertised have been violated. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (Jorge Komlenski: No. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41552	Dear Vice President, Article 106 – the speaker can only talk about the agenda point and there is no throwing away.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41553	It's already been done, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41554	And Article 108. As he spoke earlier, my speaker, Mr. Balsa Bozovic, threw two fingers up and raised his hands. It is unfortunate, Mr. Chairman, that you should have warned him, that he is giving us a sermon and that, quote him, he now says in this high house – in vain, the fighters of the 1990s gave their lives. Mr. Balša Bozovic, they gave their lives to defend their homeland and Milan Tepic and fighters in Kosaram. They gave their blood and they know why they gave it, they know Serbia's citizens. Your honourable folk letter, which sits behind you again... (Balsa Bozovic: So do you from Croatia. Well, you're... Here he comes, throwing again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41555	A colleague of Bozovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41556	She said she didn't know what Serbia's Liberation Wars were. There are none of our Serbian peasants in any of the farthest villages, hilly villages, who don't know that. You're making fun of the heroism of our fighters and the Liberation Wars and those of the 1990s. (Alexandra Jerkov: You with these amendments. You may be ashamed and ashamed. If you had a little shame, you wouldn't be in this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41557	Also, my colleague Atlagic, I do not think those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Marco Atlagic: No. ) Thank you very much. Right to replica, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41558	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I'm saying this now for the sake of the citizens, first of all. The garbage left behind a yellow company today in different forms by 2012. The garbage left Gilas behind, building the first "Big Brother" reality facility, under the pretext of building a living room for children. He robbed the kids and left behind the garbage. He left dead rats, left a collapsed facility and everything for his own interest, and that explains the needs of a living room for children. The garbage left behind a yellow company in various forms that robbed children distracted by development, building the Hetherland Castle, robbing children, leaving only ruins behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41559	Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41560	I thank you, Chairman, for this replica. So, what hit, apparently, since it is true, the ruling majority today in the Assembly, is that the wrong SNS policy led someone to suffer, that a young man lost his life, that his family had remained unhappy, and then 10 years after that, when he supported the same execution of lives first on Kosharam, then and after Koshar, and when the SNS supported him to come to power, to become president of the Kosovo government, as accused of sending civilians to the "yellow house", he pulled out their organs, non-Albanian nationalities in Kosovo, especially Serbs, and then I understand why it hurts you so much, and I understand what you use and abuse the right of replication, that in some way you get revenge or insult me personally, you can't be sure of that. But the big spot remains and will remain historic on you because on the one hand you want to repay yourself by this law to those who have lost their lives because of your wrong policy, and on the other hand, you don't understand that you've led to the fact that even the mention of the cartilage in Kursumlia is being treated today in a way that it's full of garbage, that the dogs are blowing the bones out of it. It's a picture and an opportunity of your government and your respect for the second war victims, and not only from the second war but also from the first war, but also from all wars that occurred in the meantime, and for some wars, of course, you are solely responsible. Some of you have five salaries, so they don't find it so hard to make and talk about it, and I don't know how some people have cheeks, since they don't actually have any of this power, and they defend you and your attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41561	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41562	Article 107 and the question of dignity, which has to do with the truth and also the way it is spoken in the National Assembly. The stains some here mention, the stains because they refer to the heroes of Kosar, the honor of Mr Bozovic, he was against being called that boulevard. I listened to him with my ears saying in the Belgrade City Assembly he shouldn't be called that, as he shows he doesn't respect the heroes of Koshar. On the subject of the dignity of the National Assembly and of what is said here, he preferred to be called after one of his colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41563	Just a colleague of Orlic's, which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41564	I said 107 at the beginning. What Bozovic can't hear, let's make it his problem. The second question, did the Serbian list support the formation of the government? The Serbian people used the right to decide their own fate. You must agree, since the president of the foreign-political council of the Democratic Party said it was the right thing to do. However, none of us have said, and it is the ones that DS leads through its mithinses, that Kouchner had every right to laugh at the mention of the "yellow house", that it is a comedy alive, that no one has ever traded any organs and pulled them out. Now, you and people like that are the company that now mentions Haradinaj, whom we, of course, are looking for through Interpol, and we never give up on that, and what they're doing, they say no yellow houses were there, they think it's all funny and cynical Kusner's laughing at them is funny. When they talk about wars, whether it's funny and what Costa Chavoski said only a few months ago -- the first DS programme, written by Gojko Djogo and him, predicted that in the event of Yugoslavia's collapse, some peoples could not go after themselves to drag territories in which other peoples live, and said -- and we thought of Republika Srpska Krajina, Serbs in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those in the DS today have no idea it was their program. Let them think hard before the next time they come forward, that's what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41565	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ana Čaapić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41566	Article 108 has been injured. As I come from the municipality of Kursumli, I feel the duty to invite speaker Balša Bozovic to visit the municipality of Kursumli, as all visitors and tourists are just taking pictures outside the monastery located above the skeleton he mentions. That says how clean the skeleton is. And whether the dogs are blowing up garbage at all or not, that's not true. And I ask the public speaker to come to the municipality of Kursumli and see how nice it looks. For the first time this year, we're going to mark the jubilee exactly the monastery above the skeleton. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41567	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41568	Tourists are photographed outside the skeleton. Minister, you have referred me so culturally to Article 5, which is, the advice brings the Rules of Procedure, and you have alluded to the fact that this will actually solve the problem that I point to in Article 4, that such a body as the advice should have or give greater meaning, in fact, to their opinions that give to the editing and removal of military memorials. You know for a fact that our experience with the rules of procedure and that kind of document is very bad. What does that mean? The law doesn't make any rules on work. Whoever delivers the Rules of Procedure can bring whatever the Rules of Procedure wants. So he can and doesn't have to consult experts. I say - this law should define that the advice should have most of the people whose profession, from science, from the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, History, Orders of Professors etc. Now, according to your member, which is how you define it, most of them have government. So she doesn't have to give candidates who deal with it. It is our view of Articles 4 and 5 of this law and our contribution to this debate that must be different, because it is not Parliament, no one is worthy of speaking of heroism in this way for the last two days as spoken. And that's right, Miss Vukoicic. So, yes, you weren't talking about your amendments. You spoke with respect about heroes, victims from your neighborhoods, monuments in the community from which you came. I wouldn't mind much of your discussions, but I do have a grudge that you can't possibly bring your discussions into contact with the amendments you've submitted. How is it possible that this law, which we need to talk about with dignity, can develop a country with a specific focus on digitisation, on electronic administration, on decentralisation, on, on, on Serbia's human resources and on Serbia's human resources? That's what I'm talking about. It's not your discussion that's embarrassing. These amendments are a shame and you need to pull them back. Don't invite us to vote for them. We won't vote for them. But we invite you to withdraw them, because they are a disgrace.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41569	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41570	First of all, no one invites you to vote. As far as I'm concerned, I don't care if you vote or not. What I'm interested in, if you've noticed, dear colleagues, MPs whose new boss is Dragan Gilas, come in on shifts like that, so I'm wondering who's the watch commander and who's the watchman's corporal? I see they're being replaced about every two hours. I assume he is the commander of the guard Dragan Djilas, and that the deputy guard is Vuk Jeremic, and the duty officer may be Marijane, Janko Veselinovic. Right? And around the groups, they come to say that we should be ashamed. We should be ashamed that we have reduced the unemployment rate from 26% to 12%, which in three years we have employed in Serbia 150 000 people, which we have not conducted a single robbery privatisation, which we have not robbed the "Vojvodine Development Bank", Agrobanka, which we have not brought to bankruptcy. Is that why we should be ashamed? No, we're proud of it. Because Serbia's budget is fuller, thanks to the host policy conducted by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, we can pay our respects, raise and restore Serbia-Serbian war memorials. The only memorials left behind, unfortunately, are closed factories, have destroyed jobs, have robbed banks. That's your memory.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41571	You're bringing the end of your colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41572	And our memorials – new factories, new jobs, more money for our families and our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41573	Thank you. Right to replica, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41574	Thank you. I would absolutely agree with the discussion of the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Alexander Martinovic, but, of course, I must add that I am absolutely not surprised that they have no understanding of our amendments. They had no understanding of the citizens until 2012, so they robbed them for 100 billion euros. They do not understand that the development of the state implies the development of all segments of society. That's why they led the country to the bottom. That was in 2012. But in 2012, the only judges who are all of us are citizens, and Serbian citizens from 2012 to the recent Belgrade elections show that they trust the responsible policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS, and they are somewhere in the historical past. That's what they should be dealing with. Of course, we have what we should be proud of -- with the biggest investments, and the investments are about 2.6 billion euros. Of course, we are also proud that the world's second most stable and valuable currency is today. In their time, during the yellow company, Serbia was the fourth worst currency in the world, out of 186 countries. We are proud that foreign investors have confidence in our country's political stability and economic security. We have nothing to be ashamed of, and let them think.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41575	Comrade Nikolic, on what grounds are you answering? (Dejan Nikolic: Replica. Who mentioned you? (Alexandra Jerkov: Perhaps Martinovic.) ) (Dejan Nikolic: I was misread. Are you misread? All right, buddy, I'm just asking you to stick to article 163. The Rules of Procedure in your replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41576	Thank you. It is clear already, and we have absorbed the theme that by 2012 black clouds were outsmarted over Serbia, and since 2012, the sun has been shining brighter, the smell of flowers is better, and the first spring has arrived in Serbia. We've already absorbed that, so let's put that aside. So it's no shame to talk about these unfortunate amendments, but it's a shame... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41577	I'll let you know something. (Dejan Nikolic: Can I speak in replica? You can't, even when it's a replica. Article 163 The Rules of Procedure say, I warned you nicely, on time. Thus, he says: “The board of directors will reject the incompletes and amendments with offensive content, which will be reported to the National Assembly. ” Are these amendments rejected? (Dejan Nikolic: We have a different view of shame and shame. I'm sorry, there's no double standard. It really doesn't exist. (Dejan Nikolic: Obviously we have a different view of shame and shame. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41578	Here's a word from MP Nejo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41579	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and all my colleagues from the parliamentary group, would I be asked to answer which of our amendments is the worst and immoral? Which of the SPS MPs has submitted an amendment that we should be ashamed of? What's an amendment that doesn't deserve attention? (Dejan Nikolic throws.) You treated the majority in this House. That's the majority of the SPS. As far as I think none of the SPS MPs have submitted a no-good amendment, I feel so much that none of the colleagues sitting on this side have submitted any of the best-looking amendments. And I don't understand what a bold amendment means, so I would ask that you, too, President, comment on what it is best to write amendments that are evaluated by the board? We here with all due respect, with a special pie, have an obligation to bow down and pay tribute to those who deserve it anyway. And today, in the harshest way, it offends itself. It's humiliating, it's being thrown under your feet. I feel personally affected because my father is a NOR participant. I personally feel affected by the fact that the values of NOB and all the patriots who were together in the Liberation War, as my father did in World War II, no matter what ideological commitment they were. It should be a shame for all those who step on it, throw it under their feet and do nothing. And I think it's high time that such comments no longer stand out, because we have here one goal that must be common, whether we're a position or an opposition, which is to respect the values of all those who in the country wars gave their lives and did a lot of things to save their people and their nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41580	Thank you. You have one minute and four seconds per amendment, if you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41581	You and I are really thinking the same thing. Your amendments, the SPS amendments are good amendments, deserve good discussion, attention and many of them deserve to be adopted, Minister. Here, I invite you once again to look at the SPS amendments, I really think they deserve attention and excellent discussion. Mr. Jovanovic, even your amendments don't deserve this discussion, I think they've been having this discussion for two days. They really don't deserve it. We don't differ in thinking. But you can't tell me that the amendment that's talking about the military memorial, which needs to develop a financial base, deserves dignity. Neither does the amendment itself, nor does the debate of a law like this bear such a thing. We are talking about amendments to military memorials that need to develop electronic administration, imagine, which should develop, be careful now, the personnel picture of Serbia, military memorials. That, Mr. Jovanovic, must... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41582	You've wasted your time. You weren't talking about your amendment. You were talking about other people's amendments. You spoke for a minute and 10, and that's six seconds more than a minute and four seconds. Primary school, first grade. (Alexandra Jerkov: You said a minute and 40 seconds.) I know what I said and I don't want to discuss it. You can take a look and check the time. Unbelievable, but true. I can allow you by amendment, but no further replicas. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41583	Thank you, President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Article 4. The bill, as we can see, defines the composition of a council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. The council is scheduled to have seven members, the council appointed by the minister. For the sake of the public, I will read who should take the advice: one member will give the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Pristina based in Kosovo Mitrovica; one member will, or propose to SANU, a person in the fields of science and art; four members will be given by the authorities of the state administration, i.e. your competent ministry two, per one ministry of foreign affairs and the Ministry of Military and one member will be given by the Republic Institute for the Protection of Monuments. We've amended ourselves to include at least one or one representative of an association, a war, a military association. We have the Association of descendants of Serbian warriors 1912/1918. In the year, we have the War Volunteers Association, their descendants 1912/1918. years and many other associations. So I ask you at all - did these associations participate in the public debate when the draft of this law was prepared or did they have any proposals for the composition of this committee, because the advice, first of all, gives an opinion on the proposal to build, raise or destroy a memorial centre? I have repeatedly participated in various manifestations, especially this war association of volunteers, their descendants, and I believe that they are associations that and how they cherish these glorious dates, especially from the time of the Great War 1914/1918. years and I think they should have given them room to make a statement about the bill, especially... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41584	Sure. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment, the People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41585	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Ministers, the amendment to Article 4 is my thinking and trying to extend the council from seven to nine members, that, in addition to these members proposed by the bill, two members who would be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the ranks of Members of Parliament. I believe that there is absolutely room for this thinking, because such an approach in the work of the council would be gained significantly on the weight, because behind the decisions it makes would be practically indirect for the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the most legislative and representative body in this country. Consider these amendments, as well as the amendments I have proposed to the first three members and what should be explained that this law is a good law, regulates the issue of the arrangements of military cemeterys, and the arrangements of the factory's cemetery, which have left behind future members of the Redbeard pirates' association, to which these doves would join, who have left behind the cemetery of factories, the cemetery of jobs, and who knows how many individual graves as a result of the stress suffered by all this is something that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been doing since 2012 by fighting to create new jobs, from destroyed factories creating new factories. It takes a little more time and patience to fix it, and then that cemetery will go into oblivion, as well as those who made it by 2012. They were recognized as a yellow company, as a blind redbeard association, it was completely irrelevant, and apparently that these truths were horrendous. They would forget it, but Serbia remembers, because Serbia was on the verge of collapse in 2012. Serbia was hungry in 2012. Serbia must never forget that, and they will never again, nor be able to manage this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41586	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Broz. Parliamentarians Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41587	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so far we have heard through amendments and positions and opposition to memories of Balkan wars, First and Second World War, victims of wars in the environment and NATO aggression on Serbia in 1999. The Serbian Radical Party considers it unacceptable for only one historian to sit in the care of tradition and four members from the state administration. This kind of advice would be acceptable if we had a list of victims, if we knew the number of victims, if we knew where individual graves were, and where were mass graves. It would be acceptable for us to have memories that just need to be maintained and kept in mind that they don't fall into oblivion, but unfortunately we don't. Therefore, this advice should have people of the profession and this bill should serve to get to the truth and in some way improve the world's relationship so far, what was left of Serbian suffering. This job seriously needs to be taken into consideration and determined where the Serb people have experienced the goal and to make sure that these places are marked. Only when this job is completed can there be officers who will make sure that war memorials are preserved and handled by the administration. This is how I express my suspicion that this bill will not come to life. I wish I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41588	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41589	This law is good and after 40 years we can finally hope that the realisation of this law can heal some of the wounds of our people who have really suffered what they suffered in the past. Here's the thing. In World War II, in particular 10.11. and 12 October, the village of Krina Reka at a height of 1,200m above sea level on the Kopalnik suffered one of the greatest fascist crimes during World War II. What happened? So 2,800 occupying forces, soldiers, Germans and Bulgarians, at the time, 1,800 were Germans, say there were thousands of Bulgarians entering the village of Krina Reka where there were then only 600 inhabitants, 600 people, women, children and men. Of those 600 people, 320 were killed, 100 houses burned down, 800 large cattle and 3,000 small cattle. In three days' time, the village became a burning place. On October 12, all these murdered men, women and children, were not seen by men, all gathered and burned in the Church of St. Peter and Paul, which was erected in 1618, and then, along with that people, they blew it up. After the church in 1979 was protected by cultural monuments...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41590	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41591	Just to finish, that the state has to pay attention to that monument and finally...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41592	Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. Philip Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41593	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers with fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. A bill on war memorials. As I come from KiM, more specifically from Gjilan, whose surroundings today have a strong Serb community, I want to remind myself of one of the most important dates in Serbian history. Tomorrow is Vidovdan, a day that is deeply cut into the memory of all Serbs, a day that will remind most of the heroism of the Serbian people and Kosovo heroes. And no matter what anyone thinks about the fact that there are enemy troops on KIM today, KIM will always be a sacred Serbian country for us. We Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are deeply convinced that we will not wait long for a day when we will be able to live freely in our Kosovo and Metohija. That is why I believe that the memories found in Kosovo and Metohija are of great importance to our people and the state. The state of Serbia must do everything to protect the Serb victims in Kosovo and Metohija. We must resist any pressure from Serbian enemies who want to convince us that Kosovo and Metohija are not ours and that Kosovo and Metohija are a burden to the state of Serbia. Today, joint exercises by the Serb army and police are being held in the King. We in the SRS have nothing against it, but it is not yet a sign that the state is treating Kosovo and Metohija in the right way. It should be done all the time and in every place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41594	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? The 4th Amendment was submitted by Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41595	I thank the chairman. The ministry saw the need to pass laws on war memorials relating to the area of protection of monuments in the country and abroad, since the regulations were passed at the time of the SFRY and divided when it was divided into three federal states, i.e. 40 years ago. Others had the opportunity to change something, but they were too obsessed with other areas, how to get rich in a short time. In this way we cultivate tradition for future generations to come, because next to language, culture, letters, history, customs and beliefs is certainly the identification of a nation. It is important for the advice to be of the most important persons with full responsibility to treat the memorials, to set priorities, the amount of investment funds and to have a vision of the development of the environment around memorial complexes and monuments. Cultural tourism is a function of protecting the country's cultural heritage, as its commercialisation comes through the necessary funds for investment, maintenance, restoration and protection of monuments. This also brings material and immaterial benefits to the local population, but also to the whole country that strengthens its identity, because cultural heritage is the material and immaterial resources that man created, or to raise monuments to our famous ancestors who grow old in the struggle for the homeland, which must never be forgotten. Because forgetting them means forgetting your history, and without history, no nation exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41596	Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41597	Thank you. The memorials represent an inevitable segment of national cultural heritage and are a permanent witness to the violent and free history of Serbia and remind us of the glorious events and personalities of our history. With the care and protection of the memorials, we show both the civilizational level and the built historical consciousness. The city of Nis is a imperial city, a gate of the east and west, known for its turbulent history and imperial heritage. I mention the battle sites of our people's greatest casualties in Nis: the memorial park to the fallen fighters and victims of fascism in Bubanja, the Memorial complex "12. February" Camp Red Cross, Cele Tower, Čegar, bustle Stevan Sidelic, monument to the liberators of Nis, monument to Alexander Unifier, memorial to the victims of NATO bombing in 1999, monument to the victims of NATO aggression at the SRJ, monument to Prince Milan, the liberator of Nis in the Nis Fortress, a monument hanged in 1821, the bustle of Duke Petar Bojovic, the liberator of Nis in the First World War, the monument of fallen pilots, graves of Soviet soldiers, the monument of the attack against Germans at Hotel Nis 1941, the Memorial of the folk hero Mia Stanimirović, the monument to the folk hero Đuki Dinić, the monument to the people hero Jelisveti, Ani Tiandjević, Milena and many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41598	Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41599	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, tomorrow is a big holiday. Tomorrow's the day of the sharp eye and safe hands. In Sarajevo on June 28, 1914, it might have been better off if it hadn't been for that, but maybe. Freedom has its price. The bones of peasants are scattered maltenes all over the world. So last generation of peasants prove that and how these monuments have to do with agriculture. We must cultivate what they have created. They are the creators, they are the acquirers of this state, Karadjordje, Milos Obrenovic. About their clothes and bread, they created a state that this alliance of Mutibarics and cheaters had been destroying since 2000. They deserve to be mentioned. They went to the Kajmachalan, won it, very high peak. They didn't climb Karakorum and play skiing for big money, they were dying on Corfu, and I guess that's why they smell of Gilas's left movement today. The peasants stink, they feel. I guess it's because they were dying on Corfu and they weren't flying in the Maldives. I guess it's because the last bank was invested so that the state of Serbia would survive, and they didn't carry it to the Virgin, Sessel and other islands. They didn't take that money unlike these, which they took out for 10 years 51 billion dollars on those islands, they didn't take the money to Cook's Island, so when you get the gentleman back from the gang of thieves and con men and money from the Cook Islands, then you can count on sympathy, otherwise you'll win the hip summer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41600	Thanks, time. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the fourth amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41601	I thank the chairman. We listened these days as history begins on October 5th and that nothing is recognised before, as if we had no ancestors defending the Serbian people. It's exactly the opposite. Yes, my grandfather is part of World War I. He participated in all battles in World War I, a priestly face of Stavrofor prototoria and is the bearer of Albanian monuments. My father, a participant of World War II in the People's Liberation Fight, fought fascists and Ustasha slayers. Among other things, a participant in the Sremski front and frees Belgrade. I personally participated twice when it was necessary to defend the Serbian people. My mother and I were born in Knin, and they ran away from the Ustasha knife several times. And today, we live in a peaceful and safe Serbia, and I have taught my four children not to hate anyone, but to love their country primarily Serbia and the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41602	The 4th Amendment was submitted by Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41603	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, the observation of cultural heritage as a resource is certainly in the function of economic development and this law strengthens the participation of the memorial Corps in cultural heritage. Of course, the economy does not contribute to spit on Serbia by individuals who have left the gym at the moment, and at least in this takeover, they can tell each other what they said earlier because the previous team claimed that we had lost all the wars. The next team says the basketball fighters lost their wars, and we think they won. That they are one of the greatest winners. You can't contribute to economic development if you spit all over your country all over the world, if you say it on a microphone in public, what you're just saying to those you're meeting. Let's hear what some people said about our army and our country. German Emperor Wilhem - heroes, I send you to war against a small but very brave people, these are Serbia, who at the time of three recent and very difficult conflicts with Turkey, Bulgaria and Austro-Hungarian have provided the world with proof of the most powerful virtues and great military abilities, and who, on their flags, have written in four years only unbeatable and glorious victories. Franz Tirfalder – many times, participants in the war there told me how deeply they were touched by the courage of the Serbs, their knightly behaviour towards the winners and the defeated, their endurance and military stance. Boris Tadic – what we need the Army for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41604	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Oliver Ognjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41605	Thank you. The fact that members of the council give an opinion on how to preserve the war memorials of the Republic of Serbia, points out that through the preservation of history and the cultivation of the tradition of the Liberation Wars, we will open up opportunities for continuity, but also for the development of new branches of tourism. Tourism significantly contributes to the implementation of the development strategy, as it enables local communities to recognise the wider importance of their tradition, to make it sustainable, recognizable and to pass it on to future generations. Belgrade has a leading place to visit tourists and interest in sights, and I think it is extremely important that the Old Fair becomes a regional centre for Holocaust research. The memory centre project includes three museums. One relating to the death of Jews, the other to the death of Serbs and the third to the death of Roma. The government through various competitions allows local communities to improve their environment, so last year the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments Kraljevo received funds for reconstructions of memorial marks on the territory of Čačka, Kraljeva, Vrnjaka Banja and Raška. These investments have contributed to the completion of tourist offers on these destinations. We now have a clear tourism development policy, we are developing an effective promotion policy. Cultural tourism is recognised as the primary tourist product and is invested in the arrangement of cultural heritage sites. It is necessary to use all tourist resources in a plan and make the offer diverse and quality. This has a significant impact on overall economic development and contributes to financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41606	Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 4th Amendment. Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41607	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Bor, the Street and Square Names Commission has made a public call on the basis of which all interested persons can submit their proposals for the designation of the name. I have sent the Commission a proposal stating that it is necessary to change the name of the main street in Bora, i.e. from the current name Moša Pijada, to rename it to Milunke Savic Street. I think the reasons for this proposal are clear to everyone, and if you ask me why Milunka Savik, I will try to explain in the two minutes I have. Serbian war heroin Milunka Savic was a symbol of heroism both in war and in peace. In the Balkan wars and the First World War, there was a woman with the highest honor in the history of war. The only woman in the world to be awarded the French Order War Cross with a gold palm. She was wounded nine times in a fight. Because of her immeasurable courage, the French called her Serbian Joan of Arc, and the general and president of France, Charles de Gaulle, stood calmly in front of her. However, Milunka Savic refused to move to France, stayed in Serbia and worked in humanitarian work. Although, when she was demobilized, she had nowhere to live, for 15 years she did the hardest jobs. After she married and had a daughter, she adopted three other girls. Her marriage went out, and she raised four children herself. And that's not all, neglected and abandoned by everyone, the pension is earned by working as a cleaning lady. In all that time, she educated and raised 30 other children, who she brought from her home village. She was a woman for whom defeat did not exist. I therefore argue that there must be at least one mark in every Serbian city that recalls Serbian heroin, Milunko Savic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41608	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does he want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41609	Dear Presidents, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the largest newspaper in the current legal regime is the responsibility of the ministry responsible for the care of Serbia's tradition and Liberation Wars for giving consent to raise a new war memorial, but also for giving a proposal to remove a war memorial, which must contain relevant evidence that its content does not correspond to historical or real facts, that it offends the general and state interests, national and religious feelings or public morality, that it is committed to an event that is not in accordance with the fluids of Serbia's Liberation Wars or symbolises the loss of sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence and freedom of the Republic of Serbia. That he was raised by a person representing fascist, nationalist, chauvinist, separatist ideas or ideologies, or who was an associate of aggressors, occupiers, their allies or helpers. Such an orderly system will bring a uniform application that contributes to the improvement of respect for human rights, national and religious feelings. I call on my fellow Members to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41610	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Tomic. Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by Stanija Compirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41611	I thank the president. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, by passing the War Memorial Act, we show our respect for fallen fighters, victims of war, for our past and for those who have lost their lives defending their country. Serbia remembers the heroism of its people, honors and memorials in a dignified way we preserve memories of them and preserve our history. But that's not how everyone looks at history, at the past, wants to destroy many of us, and in KIM's space in March 2004, in the violence committed by Albanians, and all in a desire to destroy religious and cultural heritage, it means the destruction of monuments and churches, it shows enmity against the Serb people and their desire to erase the historical presence of the Serbian and other non-Albanian people in the KIM areas. Their desire lasts for centuries, but our desire to survive in those areas of freedom and justice is greater. It's expensive, but it makes us even more determined to keep what's ours. Kosovo is in the soul of every Serb, especially us who are from that space. Faith in Serbia and Alexander Vukic is what makes us strong to believe in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41612	The 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41613	I thank the president. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, ladies and gentlemen MPs, member of the 4th define the composition of the Council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, which is being educated to give an opinion on the proposal to edit and remove war memorials. The bill defined that the Council appointed a minister responsible for the work of fostering the tradition of free wars for a period of four years. This Council will have clearly defined criteria for raising new memories. They will know exactly who the monuments will rise to, why they will rise and whose memory they will need to celebrate. Serbia has about 600 monuments and memorials in the country and abroad, and the area has been unsettled for decades. It's our duty to keep war memorials, it's our duty to remember and transmit memories to future generations, and this bill will help us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41614	The 4th amendment was submitted by Jelena Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41615	Thank you. The fact that we're walking upright today, that we have our own country isn't because we're special, we just have to prove that we're worthy of it. It's the merit of our ancestors, and we must never think it wasn't easy for them, but the difficulties didn't stop them. What remains for us today is to thank our fathers, but to imagine how we want them to walk and live our descendants. It depends solely on us. Throughout history, great and powerful, when conquering a nation did not only do so with weapons but also by changing history and eradicating culture and memory. We must remember where we were, where our ancestors laid down their lives and what they did to leave our young generations with those memories in the amanet. Our memories are our war memorials, and if we lose memory of our history, the past will lose its future. Did you know that patriotism came from the word “patros” translated“ father”, the word “grandfather”, which means “father” to whom this country was a grandfather again? Serbia is the grandfather's grandfather's grandfather, and it's every grandfather's back until the first Serbian grandfather. Because of all our grandfathers who have given their lives to liberating wars for our children and children who are about to be born, because of the heroic past for the future, it is our duty to cultivate our cultural heritage, our monuments. Every child has the power to create a better world than the one we live in. Let us help our children learn more about their history, because as Brana Crnchevic once said – we all owe ourselves to some children, let us be descendants to be ancestors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41616	National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41617	I would like to thank the President. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 with a desire to hear about undeveloped areas, mountainous areas, those areas from which many people have fought and given their lives for our country. That's why we've now given this law the opportunity to keep it all safe, to watch out. And it's normal to mention all of our people, all of those monuments, all of those monumental skeletons and everything that's worth it. As our colleague said earlier, our grandfathers created this country, and we must protect it. Our people, our farmers, our peasants were great fighters and fed, defending our country. A large number of our people from our midst, such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gachin Han, Sokobanja, Nis, the southeast of Serbia, have fought and worked for our country, and we will now give this law the opportunity to preserve it, to know. Otherwise, the mention of the ossuary which is in the village of Grbace, where Bogoljub Miletic, a man who left in 1917, organized himself and freed Svrlig. As a result, it was the revenge of Bulgarians where 63 patriots from that village were killed. The omen-bone was found in spite of that ossuary after 1988 and some, too, it was avenged, beware, and there were buried fighters from World War II, next to each other. It doesn't make any difference, it's all our people who have defended our country. It doesn't matter if it was World War I, World War II, if it was some other wars. Once again, I note that as humans, we will give great support, to remember all this, when we know that the peasant was a man who protected, defended our country and fed our country. Once again, I call on all fellow Members to support my amendments, because I want to support the village and agriculture and the whole of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41618	National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41619	Thank you, President. Well, here, this law was found long ago in 1976 before the parliament of the then SFRY, and it took 40 years for it to appear before parliament again. To be honest, there were attempts to do something under this law, according to the law of that time, and it was then recorded in 2003 that there were over 550 monuments in 40 countries, or war memorials. Well, that's the only place we can hire a part of our capacity, if nothing else, and about maintenance. And that's where he cares. Obviously, the political climate at the time was not very fond of living heroes, as well as those who had laid down their lives. We know what relationship started in 2003 with the Serbian Army. The SNS and its coalition partners were to come to power, so that in 2014 the public debate of our draft law on memorial features began. Soon, the draft law on memorials changes the name of the War Memorial Bill and as such is presently in front of parliament. It is good that this country is driven by people who have strong patriotic feelings and it is good that this country is led by people who want Serbia to forget its roots and its history, and it is good that in this Parliament there are patriots and most of them, so I am convinced that this law will be passed in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41620	The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41621	In order to be able to take care of her needs which, of course, includes taking care of the memorials and everything else, Serbia must develop and that is, ladies and gentlemen, of course, absolutely clear to everyone. Except for a few aggressive minorities. Who does he think he is? Well, first of all, those who spend half an hour a day in the National Assembly on average, those who generally know little what, among other things, do not even know what their party's original program is, which is of course not the biggest concern here. Those who lose their courage to participate in the debate when it reminds them that they are alone against the drinking to the heroes of Koshar and those who cough that courage after only, as far as I can see now, to social networks. Those who laughed when we said there were charges we filed against Haradinaj at Interpol. Why are they having fun? You mean because when Haradinaj was arrested on those charges in France, they were also against their country and on his side. Still, I think the thing is that Dragan Sutanovac has a very good reason when he advocates that so-called. Kosovo will be admitted to Iterpol, it must be a good way for these indictments to disappear and that people like Haradinaj can feel safe enough and safe enough. Instead of discussing it on social networks, instead of facing opinions, it might be best for them themselves to withdraw from any debate on any subject, not to show Dragan Gilas that he bought one big nothing. How cheap, that doesn't matter. Whether for a new round of Belgrade or for a new trip to Maldives, it doesn't matter, it's important that it's one big nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41622	The 4th Amendment was submitted by Dalibor Radcevic. The 4th amendment was submitted by Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41623	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, MPs, on the very next day, it is not an accident that Vidovdan was born, who the French called Serbian Joan of Arc. Our Milunka Savic was the Serbian heroine of the Balkan wars and the First World War. A sergeant in the Second Regiment of the Serbian Army, Knjaz Mihajlo, the woman with the highest honor in the history of war and is the only woman in the world to be awarded the French Order War Cross with a gold palm. Most of them stood still before her, even President of France Charles de Gaulle. She was wounded nine times, and just when she was first wounded in the Bregal Battle almost a year after joining the Serb army, her real sex was discovered, because she always represented herself as a Millun. No wound prevented her from returning to battle, so in 1916 she stood out in the Battle of the Kajmachalan when the Iron Regiment was joined by 122 French divisions. That's when she captured 23 Bulgarian soldiers. Except she was a warrior, a hero, a hero, a mother. Maybe you should be a role model for all of us women today. She adopted three children and fed over 30 children. In her former house on Vozdovec in the street that bears her name today, a memorial plate was set up. A monument in natural size was erected near her native village of Koprivnica in 1995. I am proud to say that every year since this monument was set, I am leaving and bowing to this woman, the woman who is my role model, and who I hope will be a role model to my children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41624	Veroljub Mijatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Dusica Stojkovic. The 4th Amendment was filed by Tijana Davidovac. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Mirko Krlic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41625	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the laws that regulated the area of war memorials were passed 40 years ago, and that is precisely what the need for the adoption of this law defining the competences of local self-government and the competences of the Republic of Serbia in terms of investment maintenance of memorials both in Serbia and abroad. Many war memorials in our country's territory symbolize a period of history, point to a history we're proud to always keep a memory of all the heroes who have laid down their lives to free our country. In addition to maintaining, resuscitating all memorials through primary, secondary and higher education, we must ensure a certain level of knowledge about historical facts and war memorials that symbolize a certain period of time and which, apart from language and letter, represent the cultural heritage of our people. A responsible relationship, or adequate maintenance of our war memorials, indicates that we will never forget the many victims of the free wars that the Serbian people have waged throughout history. This law shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia is determined to protect a rich cultural heritage from wartimes and regulate an area related to war memorials, thus preserving the loss of victims and the heroes of the Liberation Wars that our country has waged. In the voting day, SNS MPs will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41626	By amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41627	President, thank you for giving me your word. I would only repeat once more what my colleagues are and what I was saying in the first part of this session. What's very important is that we have a tragic event going on here in front of the congregation. So, some people are moaning smoother, some of them are setting up one of the tarmac memorials, which are rolling in mud when it rains, and on the agenda is a law that is right about war memorials and which, as you say, will improve both the country's economic situation and the opportunities of financial citizens. What's very bad is that in this way SNS obviously does not give up its policies in the 1990s, for which we were really sure that, if nothing else, all those victims of war, that someone in the name of the ruling majority today will at least apologize to those families and say, no, that was the wrong policy, that policy led to the victims, today we repay them somewhere. No, you're still claiming that these wars were right, that this policy was right, and on the other hand, you're passing the law to sort of pay off, because, well, they've completely needlessly given their lives to some and someone's wrong policies. This is what the memorial centers look like, the monumental turtle in Kursumlia, which we just heard about being photographed there, right, tourists, that the city of Kursumli is proud of...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41628	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: I haven't wasted my time.) You spent your time, even though you weren't talking about the memorial. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what a man who has a rich dad has shown, and unfortunately we don't have it, here's what this abandoned mention of a skeleton in Kursumlia looks like. (Balsa Bozovic: It is not a monumental skeleton. Here, look. This is what the abandoned mention of a skeleton in Kursumlia looks like. It's a picture from May 3rd. (Balsa Bozovic: It is a monastery. It's a church. Where's your picture with those newlyweds? So, in front of that ossuary, which is to this extent beautifully decorated, a picture of young people getting married and should be ashamed of you for misleading Serbian citizens. (Balsa Bozovic: People who marry are photographed in front of a skeleton? Well, you don't know how to get to Kurzumlia. You don't know how to get to Kurzumlia. But let me ask you something else, you keep talking about some wars, let's get things cleaned up, should we as a people have happened to us in 1990 what happened to us in 1941? (Alexandra Jerkov: I 1993) Was it pointless to create Republika Srpska? Was it pointless to defend Kosovo and Metohija against NATO bombing? It's pointless for you, not for us. It's for us... (Alexandra Jerkov: The wolf defended her. ) Well, yes, Vucic defended Serbs in both Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska both in Kosovo and Metohija. The wolf is from Pala. In 1992, Vukic reported war activities in Republika Srpska, as the Serb people defend themselves against the united Croatian-Muslim coalition. You should be ashamed. Where were you those years?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41630	Thanks, time. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. No, there's no basis for replication. I don't want the discussion going that way. The 4th Amendment was submitted by the People's Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41631	Thank you, President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Square of the Holy Trinity in Somboro was named after a monument decorated since 1774 in gratitude for the disappearance of one of the numerous outbreaks of infectious diseases in these areas. The monument is located outside the old town house, and was destroyed in 1947. The monument, among other things, was the seat of the distance of the surrounding villages, so that the first circle seats were 13 kilometers away from the monument of the Holy Trinity, the second 20 and the third 25 kilometers away. The largest number of Somborians do not even know that the monument was erected by the Sombors who belonged to the three religions, both Orthodox, Catholic and Protestant. The monument was erected in gratitude to God for saving Sombor from the great plague epidemic, which killed many citizens in 1763. About how many Sombors in the epidemics of 1738, 1739 and 1774 died of the plague, it tells us that four cemeteries were then erected in Sombor on four corners of the city, where each end buried its dead in its cemetery. Such a schedule of cemeteries had a preventative effect on reducing the encounters of people with plagues both in the city and in individual cemeterys. The square of the Holy Trinity today represents a protected spatial cultural continent of great importance. Lately, there has been an initiative to return the destroyed monument of the Holy Trinity, but also a monument to King Alexander Karadjordjevic, located in St. George's Square. The same monument of the Holy Trinity exists on the square in Hungary, so it is possible to make a copy. Thanks to this Memorial Act, conditions will be created to bring back broken monuments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41632	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41633	President-in-Office, honourable Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, after a decades-long negligent relationship with cultural heritage, which has led to the fact that at the beginning of the 21st century, in certain segments, it may be considered highly endangered, which is certainly present in the cultural heritage associated with wartimes. It is precisely the reason for the adoption of the War Memorial Act, which will ensure a high degree of protection, regular investment maintenance and secure funding with the aim of regulating and maintaining war memorials to cultivate traditions for future generations. The role of the Liberation War Council is of particular importance and is crucial in directing and giving an opinion on proposals for editing and removing the war memorial. I am convinced that the Council will face a number of demands, especially for the removal of war memorials, because there are also those who insult general and state interests, national and religious feelings, as well as those dedicated to events that are not in line with the fluids of Serbia's Liberation Wars. Finally, it is important to note that the relationship to the cultural heritage from wartimes is raised to a level worthy of glorious and bright Serbian history, which deserves victims of the Liberation Wars and heroes of wars that have laid down their lives for peace and freedom of Serbia. It is also one of the results of SNS policy and its president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. In the voting day, SNS MPs will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41634	The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boban Birmancevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41635	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Law on War Memorials creates conditions for regional development and regional integration and is precisely making conditions for us to edit and raise the level of our ancestors and victims that are covered by these memorials, but also create conditions to open up some new ones, as will be the complex at Cera. I would call and insist that the NATO aggression that marked a shameful episode in the history of the EU, or Europe in 1999, which is NATO aggression on the Republic of Serbia, and above all, innocent victims, that it was an innocent victim, so there would be a lot. In a particular case, there were many more, and it's impossible for anyone to justify the collapse of RTS, bridges, civilian casualties, trains with civilians. For the sake of both Serbia and the EU and NATO, monuments should be erected to remind them that they have done something shameful and something that is not worthy of fair, responsible and, above all, people who think good of humanity. Whether and how much we will push for the construction of such memorials and memories of those who have innocently suffered depends solely on us, but also on how much we want this Serbia and our citizens to move forward. What I must repeat, and it is very important, is that the conditions that we will achieve through this law will certainly provide for the citizens of Serbia, but also for our generations a real relationship with the memorials and show that we know that we appreciate our victims. We're going to the future with our heads up. Citizens will not forgive those who have supported NATO's aggression, and precisely they do not have the right to speak of honesty and justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41636	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the adoption of this law will certainly affect the strengthening of the security structures of the Republic of Serbia. This is also the subject of today's joint joint exercise of the Serbia-MUP military, which was held in the Kingdom, titled "Joint Impact in 2018". The exercise showed that Serbia's military and that the MUP are absolutely capable of providing peace and security for all Serbian citizens, including the Serb people at KIM. What I would also like to say is that it is we from the SNS, led by the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, that in this year in the city of Kralje we will really raise two major memorials. In September of this year, Turkey's Tape-textile factory will open to employ 1800 citizens of the Royals and Leoni factories, which will employ 5,000 people, and will be the largest Leonieva factory in the Balkans. The City of Kings really deserved this. The King was in World War II, or at the beginning of World War II, during the enemy occupation, as you know, around the Kings were fought hard, both anti-fascist movements lost a lot of people fighting around kings. The town of Kraljevo, unfortunately, experienced an economic downturn from 2000 to 2012. And we can proudly say that we will raise the city of the King from ashes, economic ashes. These two factories will bring prosperity to all those who live in the Kingdom and who live in the territory of the Rasko district.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41638	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Stanislav Janošević. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41639	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it has been almost seven and a half decades since the end of World War II, and we have problems with a situation where monuments have been erected in honor of those who are victims of the NOR. I must tell you, don't pay so much attention when some negative arrows go, although many praise them on the opposite side, but they had a chance to pass a law like this. However, Minister Djordjevic, during your term of office such a good law will be passed. It's not enough, like you said, to just go out in front of those monuments, pay attention to them for a little while, lay a wreath. It is necessary that we always look after those who gave their lives for our safe future. We have a situation that not only in cities, but in villages, monuments are not in the best condition, they can be beheaded or destroyed. The town of Zrenjanin has recently done a restoration of monuments that have been erected in honor of those who have fallen in the wars of the 1990s and we take care of their condition, because the most affected are members of their families who continue to suffer the most after them. In fact, we have to take care of how we treat antifascism, and we treat ourselves as antifascism does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41640	Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41641	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. And first of all, I have to say that the bones of Serb warriors are scattered both in our country and in over 40 countries around the world. This bill gives its Article 14 great importance in order to maintain and invest precisely in memory centres located in other countries. I'll only list some of them. In Romania, at two locations, and I will list the location of Arad, there are graves of dead Serb warriors, prisoners, 2,000 of them, who died in a typhoid camp and other serious diseases during captivity. The government, as a responsible government, and in the context of marking 14, as many state ceremonies and days of memory, is now marking every 16 October the anniversary of the death of interns right at the Arad camp in Romania. In Romania, too, there is a mention of a skeleton in which the warriors of the First Voluntary Serb Division in World War I in 1916 heroically gave their lives in the fight against Austro-Hungarians. Unfortunately, 8,000 Serb warriors lost their lives at that location. Also, I must mention 22,000 Serb warriors who have lost their lives in the Kumanov battle. Also, I must say that the Ministry of Labour and this government also marks October 24th as a day dedicated to the anniversary of the Kumanov Battle. Besides, I want to point out that Serbian warriors were killed as prisoners in Slovakia. The number is about 7,000 Serb warriors, and Tunisia has a memorial of the cemetery and the mention of skeletons for some 1,800 Serb warriors who have lost their lives. All of this certainly deserves to have after 40 years one of these laws for the first time. But there's something else I need to point out. For the first time in 2015, the government of the current president, and then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, decided to mark August 4th as the Day of Remembrance of all the injured and exiled Serbs, above all those who fled from the Ustasha knife in action, as well as all Serbs who were expelled and exiled only because Serbs from their hearths from all the republics of the former SFRY. In 2015 this celebration was held in Raca, then held in Busia and in 2017 it was held in Veternik. Serbia is taking great care of its past, but with great steps to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41642	The 4th amendment was submitted by Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41643	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the people say that politicians leave behind misery, poverty, debt, disappointed citizens, people without work, abandoned factories, deserted cities, deserted villages, and that's what he did and left behind the former regime. The statesmen, such as Aleksandar Vukic, and responsible political parties, such as SNS together with their partners, have new 180,000 jobs behind them, have new 90 factories, as we heard earlier, and "Leoni" with 5,000 jobs. The statesmen and responsible political parties, such as the SNS, keep war memorials, keep their memories, their people, are responsible for the children who are to be born and live in this country, are responsible for both their past and the future, for that children should live in this country, to work and to create their families. This law is important to us both for the memory of our future and for the survival of this people, because if we forget all those who died for this country, then there will be no more in this country or those who will be born for it, who will live in it and who will create their families in it. I am convinced that the policy led by the SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, will have all the children, more factories and more new jobs in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41644	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41645	Thank you, Your Honor. Honored ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the first day of October 1944, fought for the release of villages and cities of South Banat, began from a place along the border with Romania. So on October 2nd, he was released from Vršac. The town of Vršac has not forgotten the Russian fighters. The mention of skeletons in the city's cemetery was erected in 1955 and buried the bodies of the missing Red Armians who died in the city itself, but also in the surrounding places. There rest the bodies of 36 soldiers of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia, 11 soldiers killed in 1941 and 11 shooting patriots. The second October in Vrsac has been marked for 69 years as the day of mailing and the day of memory of members of the South-Banat Partisan squad, as well as citizens of Vrsac who have been involved in the fight for liberation and who have laid down their lives and made their contribution to freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41646	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41647	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, with the goal of giving an opinion on the proposal to edit the war memorial, a council has been formed to cultivate Serbia's tradition of free wars. Since the area of protection and regulation of war memorials regulated several legal acts, but also that they were passed in the long run by the SFRY, it was necessary to propose a new law that would regulate this area and, above all, define the competences of all in this area. The outdated solutions had to be replaced by new ones, and this area was regulated in accordance with the established principles of modern civil society with respect to human rights. A significant newspaper of the proposed law is the definition of the elements for decision-making of new war memorials, which has not been defined by existing acts so far. This will contribute to the arrangement of the state system, which will also bring uniform application and contribute to improving respect for human rights, national and religious feelings, traditions, as well as improving the country's tourist offer. The organised war memorials as an important segment of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia will also become part of a quality tourist offer. Undoubtedly, this area, designed in this way, within the framework of legal solutions, will contribute to the development of the country and contribute to its better reputation in the world. In voting day, we will support a set of proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41648	National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41649	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on war memorials, which reads – the work of the council provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. There has been no regulation in the Republic of Serbia so far that regulated the ministry's competence to make decisions to raise new war memorials. The bill provides for the minister's jurisdiction with prior advice, so the role of the council is of paramount importance. The Council has seven members: one member from the ranks of history professors; one member from the field of science and art; four members from the ranks of the state administration and so on – a member on a proposal from the ministry responsible for the cultivation of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, and one member on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Defence Affairs; one member proposed by the Republic Institute for the Protection of Monuments. The members of the council from their ranks elect a president, and what is very important to emphasise do not have the right to compensation for work. The professional and administrative technical support of the council shall be provided by the ministry to whom the advice is required to submit a report on its work at least once a year. The Council makes a rule about its work. Also, the bill envisions keeping a unique record of Serbian war memorials in the country and abroad, as well as of the dead, starting with the First Balkan War. This represents one of the most important newspapers, since so far there were only partial records. In this way, the bill on war memorials creates the necessary conditions to cultivate tradition, protect cultural heritage for future generations, and contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this must be pointed out in Article 4. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41650	The National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41651	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this amendment identifies the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the improvement of the private sector as one of the parameters managed by the council for the cultivation of Serbia's tradition of liberation wars in its work. Not many words should be spent on the importance of the Maricevic Jaruza complex, the site of the rise of the famous First Serbian uprising. Also, there are numerous records of the casualties of the people of the forest region, in Arangelovac and the surrounding area. What is particularly important for the topic of war memorials is the mention of a skeleton in Arangelovac made of bukovic granite in the example of the chapel of the famous Zentinlike. In that mention, some 4,000 Serbian and Austrian soldiers who were killed in the 1915 battles were buried, above all, in the Kolubar Battle. It was created between 1933 and 1938 and there were numerous resistances to this construction by the local population because it buried our soldiers along with our enemies. However, during World War II, when German soldiers found out about the common skeleton, according to the stories of the natives, they freed the city from the infamous revenge of 100 for one. I cited this example as a paradox of war and what might happen in some submerged times. The municipality of Arangelovac, in collaboration with the National Museum in Arangelovac, has been competing for years for projects that improve the supply of our war memorials, extracting funds for their recovery, maintenance and desire that through numerous events, which we organise during the year, we break away from forgetting this witness of history. I'm convinced by the work of counseling and law-making that this job will be much easier. These are just some examples of the desire to combine heritage and tradition with tourist offer and the development of the economy and the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41652	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41653	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, say history is written by winners, and usually when writing a new history, the previous ones are wiped out, and in this new writing, war memorials are often killed. Usually war memorials of the predecessor, whether they are other nations or other regimes, are forgotten, but not often they collapse and neglect. In order to honor the old saying that history is a teacher of life, we need to worry about war memorials, we need to keep them safe, no matter what period of our history they represent. That is why it is important to support this law, which introduces the mandatory recording of all war memorials in Serbia's territory. The obligation to keep records has local self-government, monumental protection facilities, and also the competent ministry. Given that the content and appearance of the record is prescribed by the minister, I hope that these records will be made public, that they will be available to wide masses and published on internet portals, so that everyone can have insight into what every war memorial has behind it and that they will have the basic knowledge of both their and Serbian futures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41654	The 4th Amendment was filed by Miodrag Lint. Zvonimir Djokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41655	Thank you. I spent most of my working century working as a professional member of the Army, as an officer in the units and in the command of artillery and missile units of our military air force and anti-aircraft defense. Changing duties and formations and positions, changing barracks and garrisons in which we worked and lived, from that former SFRY to the Republic of Serbia, to me and all my fellow officers, officers and soldiers, it was never difficult to do what we defined ourselves for, and we have defined ourselves to honor independence, constitutional order, integrity and the integrity of our country and to be prepared to fight for its freedom and honor, not complaining that we give our lives in this fight. The states have changed. And the borders of the states have changed. And the constitution changed. And the threats to this people were different intensity. There were wars and sufferings and various challenges, but it wasn't hard for us, not in peace, not in war. In fact, 41 members of the RV and the PSC gave their lives to NATO aggression against the SRJ. They died as heroes, because they were also heroes, and because until the last moment of their lives, it wasn't hard for them to do what they were doing and to die for the people and the land worth killing for. We always have to remember them while we're alive. They and all the other victims of this unjust war, as well as all the other states of other wars and casualties that are behind us. We must remember them and respect them, not just because of the past, but because of our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41656	The 4th Amendment was submitted by Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41657	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in addition to the fact that legal regulations have been in place in this area for more than 40 years, undermining the need for new laws to be passed in order to overcome outdated solutions and arrangements in accordance with the principles of modern civil society, it was necessary for new laws to specify the distinctions of jurisdiction between the ministry and the units of local self-government on whose territory war memorials are located. The outstanding relations so far have led to confusion and have made it impossible for the effective and quality control of the spending of funds provided by the Republic of Serbia in the budget for this purpose. In order to eliminate this anomaly, the proposed solutions explicitly establish the duty of units of local self-government to regularly maintain war memorials on their territory, while, on the other hand, the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to invest in investment maintenance, as well as the way to overcome the problem when the local self-government unit is unable to ensure the financing of regular maintenance of war memorials that are essential for the cultivation of the tradition of Liberation Wars. In addition to these two entities, whose obligations stem from the legal rules, I would like to show and acknowledge a number of citizens' associations that are involved in finding and cleaning up Serbian military graves. In volunteer actions to find and clean up Serbian military graves, members of the association, guided exclusively by love and patriotism, find, clean and edit dozens of Serbian military memorials, so in this sense I ask the competent state authorities to help these and similar associations in their efforts to break away from the forgetting of our ancestors who have laid down their lives for our freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41658	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41659	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been reminded today of our famous ancestors who, conquering the Kamakcalan, the Bregalnica, taking victory to Cera and Kolubara, are in charge of us, as well as the whole of Europe and the world. We also remembered those brave soldiers who defended our people, both in the Serbian Krajina and in Republika Srpska and in Kosovo and Metohija. In our history, and most recently, there were those times when they tried to convince us that we should be ashamed of our glorious history, but failed to erase these glorious heroes from the memory of the Serbian people. It's quite different today. Today, Serbia proudly marks all holidays. Today our soldiers can proudly remember their brave predecessors and thus strengthen their fighting spirit, the same one that some previous authorities, destroying their army, tried to destroy them. Today, the government understands that only a strong national identity brings accelerated economic development, and this has been shown by many countries in Europe and the world. That is why Serbia can today create new factories, new jobs, to keep young people in its country. And not only that, Serbia today can help both Republika Srpska and this particular government and the president of the state have done so, in this way, by acting responsibly towards Serbs and in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41660	National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41661	Thank you, President. The fourth member is defined by renowned institutions and individuals who will be tasked with caring for the cultivation of Serbia's tradition of Liberation Wars. I have to go back because, I have heard and heard all of us in the last two days many wicked comments, that this will mean the rejection of all those traditions of the Serbian people's liberation wars in the environment, which are in fact just an indigestion of comments and an attempt to sow seeds of discord into a unique Serbian people's corps in the Balkans. Many people from Republika Srpska and BiH have called me in the last two days asking me to deny something like this and publicly thank the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president for everything they do when it comes to Serbs in the environment. The best ones say the works, and the works are really great, unlike the theatre hugs and kissing we had at the time of Boris Tadic. Here are the works, in addition to everything the government has done or done in the previous period for the municipalities of Drvar, Glamoc, Grahovo and despite what it does for the construction of the monument of the house Gavril Principe, it also helps Republika Srpska and it is generous. A decision was taken on the President's initiative to help build a temple in Mostar at the height of a million marks, to build a home of culture in Nevesinj, 300,000 marks, the main road of Foca-Gadsko five million marks, a kindergarten in Trebinj in the amount of a million marks. That's right on the Sokoca, on the Palace, on the Zvornik. I don't have any more time. Now I wonder, do those who are critics and who are not present today and those who are here today even know where these places are? I'm sure they don't know. If we continue to fight crime through both these and other laws, I am sure that we will create conditions and create financial resources to continue these and these projects in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41662	The 4th amendment was submitted by Mihailo Jokic. Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Member of the 4th Amendment was sent by Member Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41663	I thank the president. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have begun my amendment to Article 4. A bill of war memory with the aim of pointing to the great importance of the law we've been waiting for for over 40 years. The War Memorial Act, which we have waited so long for, is more than we need over, because all of Serbia is rich in history, but we, too, have a large number of victims throughout the centuries, unfortunately. Since colleagues on the other side of the hall have touched on the memory of the skeleton in the port of the monastery of St. Nicholas, otherwise the monastery of St. Nicholas is the first inauguration of Stefan Nemanja, the progenitor of the line of Nemnjiæ, and I point out that in the monastery of St. Nicholas today and how it invests and that the monastery yard has never been nicer, and the memory of the skeleton is located 20 metres below the monastery. In the Memorial, there are about 30 skulls, which archaeologists assume came from the 19th century, or 1878, and from the Liberation Wars of that period, these are the fighters of the Turkish occupation. I also point out that the Public Municipal Enterprise in Kursumlia is making every effort to maintain space around the monastery and the monastery yard, such as St. Sava's Temple on the Vrakar for Belgrade, so is St. Nicholas's monastery for Kursumli. It all says that our government, as well as local self-government, is headed by the SNS and that they cherish the tradition, but also the mention of the markings of fallen fighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41664	Thank you. The honourable Members of Parliament shall be given the time provided for in Article 158(4). The 10-hour Rules of Procedure have been spent on this discussion. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41665	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to the 4th amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. The 4th Amendment was filed by MP Bojan Torbica. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41666	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as a folk MP, I will support the amendment submitted by Mr. Torbica and the amendment submitted by Mr. Atlagic, who was 10 times ago because the two of them were very alive today and because they deserved to be voted for for their amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41667	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS Group. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to the 10th amendment. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. On behalf of the above member and Article 14 of the amendment, the MPs of the SDS group together submitted. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to the 15th amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 16 of the amendment, the MPs of the SDS together submitted. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to the 17th amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS parliamentary group. On behalf of the Head and Article 18 of the amendment, the MPs of the SDS put together. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted their names to Chapter IV and Article 18 of the amendment. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 19 of the amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic together submitted the 20th amendment. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Jovan Jovanovic. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Karanac, Branimir Jovanovic and Dr Predrag Jelenkovic. The word is Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41668	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, this bill sets out a set of applicable rules aimed at more effective functioning of the state administration in the process of protecting regular investment maintenance and regulation. Among other things, the bill clearly distinguishes what it says is the responsibility of the local self-government unit and the ministry responsible for the work of fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars in the area of war memorial protection. In this respect, the proposed amendment in Article 25 of the 1st to 7th century provides for stricter penalties for infringements of the responsible person in the body of the units of local self-government, as we believe that the greater penalty will be more adequate, i.e. the greater penalty will produce a greater effect in prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-27-0.u41669	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Moving to point two. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of the Bill of Law, the amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 1st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade, together the MPs of the SDS group and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Radeta, together the MPs of the SDS group and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Radeta, together the MPs of the SDS group and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic submitted the title above Article 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade, together with the MPs of the SDS group and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic, submitted MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seshlj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkić, together with the SDS parliamentary groups and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of Independent MPs submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted MPs to the SDS and to the MPs' groups, the Independent MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group, the Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the MPs of the Free Members group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted MPs to the SDS group and to the MPs' groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted MPs to the SDS group and to the MPs' groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted MPs to the SDS group and to the MPs' groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were tabled by the People's MPs of the Prophetic Group of the SDS together: Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs of the SDS together: Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment in the same text were tabled by MPs Sreto Peric, joint MPs of the SDS group, joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj, the MPs of the SDS, together with the MPs of the DS group, submitted the MPs together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Jovanovic, Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Despotovic, joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda five. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović to the title of the Bill of Law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandra Stevanović and Nenad Christmas submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The second amendment was submitted by MP Delic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamental Rights of the Borians, Military Invalids and Family of Firefighters You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he dismissed as incomplete, amendments of the People's MPs: Hadji Milorad Stosic on Article 5, Zoran Despotovic and Momčel Mandic as members of 103 and Aleksandr Seselj and Nemanje Sarovic on Article 106. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Bozidar Delic and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Sreto Peric and Aleksandar Seselj together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Momcilo Mandic, Bozidar Delic and Miljan Damjanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milorad Mircic, Nikola Savic and Nemanja Sarovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of Parliament of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and LJljana Mihajlovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Despotovic and Ruzica Nikolic jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliament Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Zoran Despotović and Dubravko Bojic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Miljan Damjanović and Aleksandar Seselj submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on the Rights of the Borians, Military Invalids and Members of their Families – you have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Momcilo Mandic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and the Reduction of Poverty has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Bozidar Delic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic, Sreto Peric and Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, with the correction, the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the parliamentary groups DS and together the SDS parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mirčić, Bozidar Delic and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Peace of Work Agreements You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Bozidar Delic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Sreto Peric and MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 28 June 2018, starting at 10.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
