ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47088	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on construction products. We have proposed that Article 2 paragraph 1 point 14 be amended in such a way that the evaluation document consists of a Serbian and European evaluation document. The adoption of this amendment would better define the basic concepts used in this law. Otherwise, in the text of the bill, members from 22nd to 30th refer to Serbian evaluation documents. When we mention Serbian evaluation documents under this law, we see that, among other things, the proposal states in the text of the law - for any construction product that is not covered or not fully covered by the harmonised standard, technical regulations, or for which performances regarding its essential characteristics cannot be fully assessed in accordance with the existing harmonised standard. By technical regulation or by Serbian standard, at the request of the manufacturer for Serbia's technical assessment, the technical evaluation body draws up a Serbian evaluation document, with the consent and ministry responsible for construction affairs. Here, an accent has been placed on a construction product that is not covered or not fully covered by a harmonised standard, which implies harmonisation with EU rules. I have already pointed out the SRS' position on the previous amendment, and I will not repeat it now, except for the obligation of all the proposings to submit laws to the National Assembly in the future for adoption that are exclusively in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47089	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Danica Bukvic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Bukvić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47090	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this proposed law. The amendment refers to paragraph 1 of the 21st point and it provides for a precision of the legal provision. The law regulates the market for construction products and the placement of these products outside the country. The establishment of a national infrastructure system of the quality of construction products is very important, as it will remove technical barriers in trade and ensure free flow of goods. Dear Madam Minister, I am taking the opportunity to say, since I am an MP from the Lazarec municipality, that thanks to the funds that the Serbian Government, together with the rest of the ministry, has defined for the management of the travel infrastructure in Lazarevic, more reconstructions of the streets and roads in the municipality's territory this year have been done. I also have to point out in particular that there are currently three-mile-long sidewalks in the village of Stepojevac, located on the Ibari Masteral, which will ensure the safe movement of pedestrians on this part of the road. A month ago, ma'am minister, I took a parliamentary question about a walking passarella near Lake Ocago at the entrance to Lazarec. I got the answer quickly, and I thank you for saying that what I suggested is not the best solution. According to the data I have, after the adoption of the plan to change the detailed regulation, a circular current and a walking pasarella will be made at the Ibaric Masteral near Lake Ocago. My question is is is this true and when, during what time period, this decades-old problem, which, unfortunately, caused many people to die, will be solved? The SPS parliamentary group will support this, as well as any other proposed legislation in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47091	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Ivkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47092	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, is being corrected by law-technical law in order to specify the legal and technical provisions. This Article 2 defines precisely the concepts and meanings used in this law, such as – the families of construction products, essential characteristics and perfomanses, product type, technical specificity, harmonised technical specificity, standards and other. Other concepts which apply in this law, which are not defined by this law, shall have meaning laid down in technical regulations. This law defines the obligations of businesses, technical regulations for construction products and Serbian technical specifications. In order to ensure a smooth functioning of the market, it is necessary to ensure that technical regulations are made available, in order to ensure that economic operators, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are informed of the provisions in force in the Republic of Serbia. As I understand it, and you correct me if I'm wrong, for anyone who will need information and expert opinions on construction products, the ministry will form an electronic contact point for construction products. The application of harmonised standards will also reflect positively on the promotion of innovation and faster technological development of the economy and the Republic of Serbia, as well as improvement in terms of safety and environmental protection. On this occasion, I know it's not the turn of a bill on amendments and additions to the Law of Law, but I would like to mention these two amendments with only one sentence. Namely, it is an amendment to the facilities that have a temporary building permit, which have received the same and cannot enforce the law on the grounds that there was no legal appropriate plan act at the time of issue of that temporary authorisation. That's one amendment. The second amendment refers to those buildings built on land that is state property. I am sorry that these two amendments have not been adopted, because this would solve the problem on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47093	Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government, in the light of this law, argues that the positive effects of this law will justify all the costs that will be incurred under this law. We claim in the Serbian Radical Party exactly the opposite, that it will never happen. Especially if we know that here we have direct, especially indirect costs, which we can yet guess, and we know for sure that it will be much, much higher than direct costs. I will list here some indirect costs that the Government has shown here – the cost of first accreditation, 48 thousand; the cost of extended accreditation, 30,000; the cost of grading by day, or one grader, 48 thousand, I speak, of course, in dinars; the cost of maintaining accreditation, 60 thousand dinars, just for a range of 10 products. If we know this is about small, micro-economic entities, only these direct costs that are shown here are such that they will literally lead to the shutting down of these entities. The government seems unaware that the construction operation is our great resource, it's always been and will always be, but, after this law, the question is what will happen to our construction operation. It's like having paper of value to you, but you're not aware of what their real price is. These securities of value can be traded for anything, however, this government behaves so that these charters that are still worth changing for some imaginary European values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47095	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47096	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on construction products. I was already talking about the fact that this law constitutes an additional imposition on construction products producers and the establishment of monopoly in this area by some stakeholders. The initial examination and the product control factory imposes additional requirements on manufacturers and therefore additional costs. A statement on the continuity, performance of the product, safety list, instructions for use and many other things is being introduced. A body for evaluation and verification of performance stability is introduced, which oversees the implementation of factory production control. For some products, such as concrete bricks, stricter conditions of production and quality, which will lead to additional costs for manufacturers. The state of Serbia has a long tradition in this area, so we still have these products that were produced a hundred and many years ago, which still serve their purpose. 100 years ago, it certainly couldn't have been about some European standards, and we can see that the products were both quality and longevity. So, it all ultimately comes down to the realization of someone's interest, and it's under European standards and some kind of value. That is why the law should be withdrawn from the procedure, and the minister should resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47097	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slavica Zivkovic, Branimir Jovanovic, Jasmina Karanac and Predrag Jelenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague named Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47098	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, the honourable MPs, the amendment we have submitted has been adopted and it is very important that the intention to clearly define the concept of construction product in the law is recognised, because this is the basic condition that tomorrow, based on the sublegal acts that will be brought forward next year, we can clearly define what these are technical requirements that the construction product must meet. In order to protect consumers, investors and tomorrow users of the facility, we consider it necessary to, in the next period, because in this set of laws, the Law on Planning and Construction is also adopted, and the Regulation on the use of an emergency procedure, because it only clearly defines what are the essential performances that the construction product must satisfy in order to satisfy the requirements set out by the designer. We have witnessed in the previous period a lot of the problems we had, related to the test performance that certain products made by installation in the facilities, so we believe that, since harmonised standards define only basic requirements, this applies to our products that we will export in the EU as well as to EU products entering Serbia's market. Additional requirements that are very important to define are not prescribed by law. These are sublegal acts that are very important and that we believe, the government is already, i.e. The construction ministry has already formed working groups that will work in the coming period to create sublegal acts, but we believe that the application rule is very important in order to protect consumers in Serbia, investors, responsible investors and tomorrow users of buildings, because only if we prescribe the right conditions for applying the construction product will we be able to avoid any problems that could arise as well as in the previous period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47099	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47100	Thank you, Chairman. Well, there aren't any of these experts across the street, but I get it, they're early yet, it's only half past eleven, they'll probably be here by 4:00 in the afternoon. Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, well, as it has been pointed out many times in this debate, construction is one of the most important industries that directly affects other industries and my amendment is going towards providing direct support to this bill, so the proposal for a law on construction products. It is most important to point out that these legal solutions give an additional incentive to further develop construction and enable building facilities to be even safer. This also takes into account environmental acceptability, but it is also important to raise standards in construction, making domestic producers more competitive on foreign markets. Now, we have heard some of the objections about the city of Belgrade when it comes to the issue of building permits, legalisation and the like. I'll do it this time, we've been out in the previous part of the debate, how many building permits we've issued, how many hundreds of thousands of squares, etc., I'll just, for the sake of the citizens, present some concrete data when it comes to legalization. Twenty-two-and-a-half thousand legalisation requirements have been resolved since the SNS assumed responsibility for the exercise of power in the city of Belgrade, and in the mandate of our predecessors, therefore, Gilas and others, the figure was about 4,000. So almost six times less for the same period. Over a billion dinars have been made directly into the budget under the law, and these are concrete data and they best say, in the best way this city government cares about the city of Belgrade, and as some before us have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47101	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47102	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the day we talk about the draft law on construction products, I would like to point out that everything the government has done, which continues to do, particularly by implementing reforms in the area of construction with positive effects of fiscal consolidation and with the great work and commitment of President Aleksandr Vukic, has made a strong contribution to improving Serbia's investment environment in all areas of social life. In particular, statistics say that in two and a half years, construction participation in GDP is recorded from 4% to 5.5%. As investors are obliged to specify, in accordance with the applicable regulations, the pre-calculation value of works, which is an integral part of the building permit solution. The Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure carried out an analysis of each individual requirement and found that the total estimated value of works was 20% in the road infrastructure, i.e. 276m euros in total 1.4 billion euros. This is the data for the first six months of this year. So, in 2018, it is the year in which the implementation of infrastructure projects in the area of road construction is seriously under way. From year to year, responsible management will implement the SNS programme, restore the reputation of Serbia, position it in ever better places and as a desirable investment destination, so today we have nine billion investments from China, two billion from Russia, both Azerbaijan and Turkey, etc. When it comes to the construction of traffic stations, traffic connections, I'm a witness with citizens living in the Ub municipality's territory, rehabilitating untegrated roads. In all the villages, citizens are satisfied, because for years they simply faced difficulties when they came to their homes, when the rainfall and some unfavourable situations. Now they have a decent road, safe asphalt road. Rehabilitation of the municipal roads of the first and second order is being carried out, construction of the streets along with all the accompanying municipal infrastructure in the populated city of Ub. We had parts of the settlement where the streets weren't paved, but from year to year, that number is getting smaller. On the territory of the Ub municipality we also had, which was an interesting part of the state road that was not paved, so by pawning President Aleksandar Vukic, while he was prime minister in 2015 and that share ended. That's five kilometers of second row state road, number 140, where the value of the investment was 85 million, and that's what the locals waited 40 years for. This is where I would mention meeting the highest category of roads. Soon, the benefits of building the E763 highway and passing through the Ub municipality's territory will also be recorded. By the end of the year we will have built a highway from Obrenovac to Preljina. At the same time, two of the shares that need to be completed, but at the same time the reconstruction of this disputed Ub-Lajkovac section, which you spoke of yesterday and the day before, and which is, among other things, the consequence of the license hyperproduction, but also of this condition, is being put in the way of exactly this bill and this law that we are now talking about and the Law on Planning and Construction. Simply, this government, the resolution ministry, solves these problems and brings them exclusively in the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47103	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47104	There's a lot of investment in roads, especially in untegrated roads. There's been a lot of trouble. Somehow sound talk was made about highways, some previous ministers took pictures several times on the same stock, and none of it was. We end the highways, but also these other roads that aren't highways. However, regarding Corridor 11, which you mentioned, not only will we have from Obrenovac to Preljina by the end of the year, Surcin-Obrenovac is one of the things I would say, the best construction sites, if we talk about highways, but next year we start another part of Novi Belgrade-Surcin. So, we'll have a New Belgrade-Surcin, nine kilometers, then Surcin-Obrenovac by the end of 2020, early 2021, then Obrenovac-Preljina and the following year, the work on Preljina-Požega begins on March 1st. So it's a lot of work on one highway which essentially wasn't easy to arrange all this and start really works, finish all the projects and finish the natural expropriation. I think that will mean the economic development of that very part of Serbia. So thank you for bringing it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47105	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47106	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the provisions of this law encourage overall development and housing, the provisions of the law defining conditions for favourable building of apartments for members of security forces, and you have spoken about which numbers in the first phase of the dwellings, in the provisions of this law define the mandatory participation of domestic construction operations to a significant extent, which is key proof that there are no lobbyists and that we have a domestic construction operation in the first place. From the ranks of the alliance against Serbian citizens, some criticism could be heard. The soldier also had his problems in their time and naturally expected the government to solve his problems. The soldier expected a solution to the housing problem, and the president of the state said at the time – what we need the army for. We in western Serbia expected a highway and I will not tire of it and a hundred times to repeat that it was more likely during the rule that in that part of Serbia at all, the volcano was working, but an asphalt base or some new company. Yesterday, you mentioned an expert who says he has an orderly system on Zlatibor, I have an interesting document. It is a document where Milan Stamatovic authorised himself, so the president of the municipality signs his own authority to be head of the municipal administration. Otherwise, a metal man, with respect to that profession, we're talking about the law here. Then as such, it signs the location conditions for thousands of square meters of construction of some objects. So, he as well as his crew from Sapac, Paracino and others from the Alliance for the Fight against Serbian citizens have each committed a crime and every square of illegal construction has been politicised, so that when we point out those crimes they call it political persecution. It wouldn't be bad if they went to Strasbourg to cry and complain about why the Serbian citizens wouldn't, to bring them, for example. These documents, so maybe on their way to Strasbourg when they read it all and figure out why the citizens won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47107	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47108	Now that you've mentioned an apartment for security services, I think it's important to say once again not only that it will insist on domestic operations, but also on domestic products. That means, parquets, tiles, colors, all that's needed to build one building, one apartment, and the equipment, will be domestic. This will also mean a lot to the development of domestic construction, domestic operations and domestic producers. As for Priboj himself, there was only a need for three apartments, so for now there will be no construction in Priboj, but it will be in some surrounding larger cities. When you mentioned Stamatovic, his peytos, etc. Legalists, I repeat, this is what Zlatibor looks like today. This is what the whole of Zlatibor, the center of Zlatibor, looks like. Everything Stamatovic signed, it's all illegal construction. He wasn't just, or he wasn't just the president of the municipality, he authorized himself, as you showed, that he was also the chief. Everything he could sign and give, he was giving. Speaking of gondola, let's mention once again, the gondola for which he obtained the equipment five years ago, the outdated equipment, from the company that went bankrupt, which no longer exists, so it's all Stamatovica, with Stamatović and Obradović and Jeremic and Djilas, because they are essentially all together. I really hope that the criminal report given to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime against Stamatovic and a whole group of people who have dealt with it, I believe and how this research will continue and that they will be where they belong, and that is primarily in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47109	Thank you. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47110	The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, allows this law to establish a technical requirement for a large number of construction products that will raise the quality of products on our market. It imposes control and that is good for consumers. This will meet Serbia's obligations under negotiating Chapter 1, i.e. freedom of movement of goods. Manufacturers will receive the obligation to varying frequency of testing, different obligations in the field of atestering, performance continuity obligations, i.e. They'll have to secure their own product control or hire someone to do it. The papers will also feel control bodies changing the focus of work instead of taking samples and testing surveillance, changing methods and testing frequencies of the product. The law will also be an additional incentive to develop construction and will allow building facilities to be safe and environmentally acceptable. Our Government, i.e. Resort The Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure has reconstructed access traffic to Loznica, Krupanj, Banja Koviljači, Mali Zvornik and LJubovija, creating better traffic communication and a better chance for both our and foreign investors who want to invest in our region. The Shabac-Loznica-Brasin railway line was also reconstructed and all stations renovated within the planned deadline. After a 13-year break, railway transport of passengers to Sapac and Ruma was established, as well as improved conditions for the transport of goods from Republika Srpska, which are the only way out of the world, as far as rail traffic is concerned. On behalf of the citizens of Loznica and Podrinj, i.e. I thank the entire macho county this time. The announcement of the construction of a fast traffic station Loznica-Sabac, the business climate in our region will certainly be more favourable for all investors. The project documentation is under way and the work should start immediately afterwards. Thanks to our president, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, Chinese company "Mint" is also arriving in Loznica, which will invest 100m euros in a new factory and employ a thousand workers. This company is one of the world leaders in the area of design, production and sales of both structural and decorative car parts. In addition, companies are also interested in investment in hotel areas. All of this will also have an impact on the development of the Podrinj economy on improving the standard of living of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47111	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47112	Just to remind the Serbian public that in the railways, the railways had not invested in the past 40 and 50 years depending on which track was built. From the moment it was once built, until two or three years ago, not one single dinar was invested. They represented some that they invested, but they didn't invest, and that's what they say, let's just say, this Loznica-Brasin railroad, where passenger traffic hasn't worked for more than ten years. So, citizens couldn't take trains, and what was cargo transport, the average speed was about 30 kilometers an hour. And then we want to develop and want competitiveness, we can't do it with stripes like that. Therefore, the Serbian government has singled out the money, we have reconstructed that railway, we will move on. We'll have the same time coming, say, Shabac-Loznica-Brasina, as it would be with cars and we think it's very important. What, of course, starts in this neighborhood next year, it's building a fast traffic station in Shabac-Losnica. I think it's part of Serbia that just missed having a fast traffic station. So we believe construction can begin next year, in the second half of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47113	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47114	The issue of development that we point out to our amendments, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, is clear and obvious and of course recognized. Recognized by relevant international institutions. For example, the World Bank we talked about and in this debate. For example, the IMF, which since yesterday's announcement, also again agreed to the extraordinary successes we have achieved this morning. And the same is the opinion and position of the European Commission, as well as the World Economic Forum that we also talked about during this debate. Not only do those who simply won't recognize it. Of course, there is above all thought of the tycoon Latvian coalition of Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic who still dreams of becoming something in life one day, those whose benches are empty and who have to be empty, because these people obviously have better things to do, to tweet somewhere – foam or foam-free, or to prepare to go to Strasbourg, which is also mentioned by MP Krsto Janjušević. I believe that the people with whom they will go to Strasbourg certainly already have good information, that those who will come to them by Stamatovic, Zelenovic, Paunovic, I do not know who else will be a member of that large delegation, have the custom of texting with themselves. They certainly already know that, among other things, and because they are going before some of them, the Council of Europe Committee, whom they have addressed because, if you didn't know it, they are members of this Committee, so they wrote to themselves and complained to themselves, and now they will refer to themselves. But it would not be bad, I agree with MEP Janjusevic, to bring them this paper, to show that in Serbia, too, they make deals, agreements, combinations and hold budget money. Since they can't deal with any criticism of political nature, that's what everyone else who thinks about them does instead. For example, they think and do their "danosoids" which, as far as I can see, in a text that's not signed by the name and last name of the journalist, so that's probably some sort of editorial attitude, they think that the SNS mass that abuses people, bribes, etc. Otherwise, they are famous for being caught countless times in direct lies and on the subject of Alexander Vukic and the people of the SNS. These are "nins" whose great, main and responsible editor is performed as a boss by thorn when he goes to the same studio with Alexander Vukic, so the president of the state shows him very clearly that he has no idea of the things he's talking about, but that doesn't stop them from changing their own texts and finding their own each time we quote them and show how empty it is. These are various "nuns" which, as far as I can see, are again addressing international institutions and speaking to all the worst and dirtiest about their own country, but this does not prevent them from receiving what they say is loans worth six million directly from Dragan Gilas. These are all sorts of "birns" that have also been caught countless times in a lie, among other things in the World Bank's reports, or conclusions. So, you're free to keep doing that mugger job of yours, there's more good reason to keep doing it. First, if they continue to change this self-proclaimed opposition to the tycoon-lyotic type, surely the self-called opposition will continue to grow to a minus, which has already provided them with a trend. Another good reason is because every time they give us a reason to look back on their work, they make us great pleasure. The third good reason is for sure that if we have to work things out, we'll certainly just keep growing. One more thing they must have heard, but it is not bad to repeat it – we welcome and invite them to accept nice money from abroad for what they do, because we also welcome it as a good inflow of additional funds in the Republic of Serbia, so the money they will leave here additionally. We're going to be in development, just like we've been doing so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47115	On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a respected minister with associates, asked me by a random voter, I believe there is, however, a small percentage, one to two percent of the Serbian rape alliance, says – what do we need with these highways? So they don't need it at all. They fly to the Maldives, the Seattles, go to the Alps for skiing, they don't need highways in Serbia at all. But that's why highways need citizens of Serbia. Why do Serbian citizens need good infrastructure? To open up as many factories as possible. And what do we need factories for? We need them to have happy and happy families, people who work, who create, who have the opportunity to support their families from their wages, that they can live better and better in their country, that they don't have to leave it, as they left it during the DS and its allies. That's why we need these highways, so we're happy, so we celebrate every mile of highway, so we celebrate every factory and every job, because every job, every mile of highway and new factory is another possibility and another chance for this country to be happier and happier in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47117	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirović. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Compirović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47118	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with their team, dear fellow MPs, the path of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU implies, in addition to many reform procedures, and preparations for opportunities and demands of a competitive common market. It requires greater commitment to the quality of products and services, so the establishment of a national infrastructure system, the quality of construction products has a multiple objective and is the main indicator of the safety of construction products on the market, direct impact on competitiveness and support for economic development. Construction as a complete activity is a strategic one of the most important business branches and as such needs to meet the requirement, project, security and end-user. My amendment is heading towards the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special view to increasing economic exchange. Serbia's foreign trade trade exchange increased by 10.8% this year by seven months, with an increase in exports of 8.5% and imports of 12.7%. The trade exchange of Serbia's economy with the world was worth 21.82 billion euros, while exports were 9.44 billion euros and imports were around 12.38 billion euros. The deficit was around 2.94 and is higher by 12.17% than in the same period last year. The export coverage is 76.2% and is lower than the coverage in the same period of the previous year, when it was 79.2%. Foreign trade trade trade remains the largest in the countries with which Serbia has signed free trade agreements, with EU member states account for 64.4% of the total exchange. Serbia's main foreign trade partners in exports were Italy, Germany, BiH, Russia and Romania, and in imports from Germany, Italy, China, Russia and Hungary. All thanks to our President Alexander Vukic's policy, which leads us to a better tomorrow faster, stronger and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47119	National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47120	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, proposed amendment adding Article 3 to Article 2 of the proposed law refers to the development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on increasing investment. The notions of "foreign investment", "foreign investment", or foreign direct investment, represent one of the most significant issues of economic policy. The ratio of investment and economic development is a key paradigm of modern economic theory. Foreign direct investment is the most represented form of international capital movement, which includes long-term integration of the economy of different countries of the region. Technology, management skills, access to foreign markets are just some of the advantages that foreign direct investment brings with it. However, their positive effect is best illustrated through the creation of new jobs. In this context, I point out that in the past 2017, thanks to foreign direct investment, 353,469 new jobs have been opened in Europe, which is 19% higher than in the previous year. At the top of the list is Great Britain with 50,000, Germany 31,000, France 25,000, Poland 24,000, and a significant place also takes Serbia. Namely, the Ernst and Yang Audit House listed Serbia for the first time, on the list of 15 countries in Europe with the largest number of foreign investments where 20,000 new jobs have been opened in 2017 with foreign investors in our country, making up 6% of Europe's new jobs. Analysts in this audit-consultant house measure the total number of projects financed in this way and point out that compared to the previous year, the number of foreign investment projects in our country is 157% higher. The growth of 157% compared to the previous year represents the largest growth of all the countries that were the subject of the analysis. For comparative purposes, it should be noted that in the same period Spain recorded a 23% decline, the Netherlands 17%, Romania 5%, Ireland 4%, etc. The merits of such impressive results lie primarily in the fact that the current Government of the Republic of Serbia has for many years taken all necessary measures to create an attractive business environment that has produced the trust of numerous investors from all meridians around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47121	Thank you. The People's MP, Studenka Kovacevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47122	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Deputy Prime Minister, was here to discuss the ineffectiveness of the city's administration in Bor, when it comes to the issue of building permits. So I asked for a report from the city administration, or the urban and construction department. The report was made in the period from 1.1.2018 with the date of yesterday, means 23 October 2018, where it says – the type of procedure, the location conditions – the number of applications submitted was 58, solved 52, in the procedure of six; the change of location conditions – seven, seven, seven solved; building permits – 46 requested and 44 resolved; two were in progress; the change of building permit – 18 required by way of resolution; the solution by Article 145. The Law on Planning and Construction – 65 requests filed, and 64 is resolved, so one is in progress; applicable permits – 11 requests filed, 11 requests resolved; application of papers – 57 filed, 57 resolved; application of the completion of the foundation – 14 noon, 14 resolved and application of the completion of works in a constructive sense – one request filed, one solved. The report was signed by the head of department and the head of department. Therefore, after communication with public authority holders, i.e. A disaster, and the Department of Planning and Development of the City of Bor, after getting all these documents issued in one, at most two days. This is important for me and for the citizens of Bor, it is also important for me because of potential investors who are always welcome in Bora and I want them to know that the city administration in Bora is very effective when it comes to the issue of building permits. Another thing I would mention, where the citizens of Bora want to insist, is a request to the ministry, or vice-president of the government to pave the way from Selišta to Bora. That's the part where you shut yourself off from the master's path of Paracin-Zaječar to get to Bora, that's about 18 km, four is paved, there's 14 left. So I'm asking you to sort of get into the plan for next year, because that's the stock that's a big problem for us. I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47123	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47124	As far as that stock is concerned, we already talked about it last year, and it's already in the plan, and those four kilometers and these other 14 kilometers, you know that, so. But to just go back to issuing construction permits and we were, of course, looking for data. First, these are good data, such as good data in all Serbian cities. Otherwise we wouldn't be the tenth in the world to issue building permits if it wasn't done that way. After these changes and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, little is said of it. We're here to predict that all plans, so we've shortened time and all procedures for making plans, plans for detailed regulation of other plans, the maximum is 12 months. It was before, and we all know that, so sometimes even a few years ago, plans were waiting, and that was certainly a problem, so later on for construction and construction permits. By amending and supplementing this law, it is completely changing and I think it is one, perhaps, of the biggest newspapers of amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. So the results, I believe, will be even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47125	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47126	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to be made in Article 2. The draft law on construction products adds item 3 -- the provisions of this law encourage the development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to growth in the economy. Serbia had an economic growth of 4.9% in the first half of 2018, which places us among the most successful economies in Europe. The confirmation also said that in 2009, growth was negative, down 3.1% of GDP, and that the forecast of the fiscal council for this year was that Serbia would have a growth of + 4.4% of GDP. Today, the main drivers of growth are sustainable sources, exports and investments. Foreign investors are investing more and more in Serbia in the long term. Foreign direct investment amounted to 1.2 billion euros in 2014, 2.6 billion euros last year, and more than 2.6 billion euros are expected by the end of 2018. In the last three years, Serbia has advanced 50 positions on the World Bank's Duing Business List and is in 43 places under the overall conditions of business. After 50 years, highways are built. More than 200km of highways have been built in Serbia in four years, more than 200km of state roads have been rehabilitated, and another 110km of rehabilitation is under way. Works were launched at 86.6km in the framework of the construction of a fast track between Belgrade and Budapest worth 805m euros. In the previous four years, a 223km rail has been reconstructed. At 250 kilometers of track, the speed has increased to 110 kilometers per hour. The Belgrade-Nish railways, Nis – Presevo, Nis railway – Dimitrovgrad and the Belgrade-Bar railway are being modernised. 100 million dollars has been invested in buying new trains. All these are the results of the responsible SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And the consequences of the former regime's authorities, whose members are gathered today around some Alliance for Serbia, I would rather say the Alliance for the Failure of Serbia, were the devastation of the economy, the devastation of the budget, thousands of people without a job and loaded personal pockets. And, now, they want to rule Serbia again, but they don't have politics, but they promote rape and hanging, but as the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic said, they won't be able to, because there's one simple reason why they're distracted by it, the people won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47127	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47128	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 with the aim of further pointing to the importance of adopting this law regarding Serbia's comprehensive development. This law will contribute to the rapid development of construction which is one of the most important industries, primarily because our domestic producers will be given a better position on the EU market, as this law makes them more competitive on the EU market, because in Serbia the same standards that apply to the EU and the same standards that apply in all countries in the environment will apply. Yesterday, the MPs of the opposition resented us very much because we're talking about building roads, building corridors. I think it's a good opportunity to talk about this topic today, because this week's topic is the adoption of the Construction Products Act, which will, in fact, allow for a better quality of roads in Serbia. I am sure, Mr. Chairman, that the MPs of the yellow company here today would report and talk about how many miles of highways have been done in their time, how many miles of rails have been done in their time, how many cell stations have been done in their time, but unfortunately for me and for all Serbian citizens, they have nothing to report on and nothing to compare that data with to show that possibly the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have no results. That's what hurts them, that's what bothers them, because we mention building roads. They're in pain of SNS success. They are in pain of the success of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who has managed to change Serbia's reputation in the world by many times. What pains them is that they know in advance and are aware that their mundane coalition, which daily calls for rape, calls for hanging on the terraces and various abominations, will suffer total defeat in the upcoming elections. I would like to congratulate you, Minister, on this occasion on the results of your ministry's work and especially to congratulate you on your engagement to speed up the work for the completion of Corridor 10. For those of us who come from southern Serbia, the end of Corridor 10 means new jobs, means the survival of the entire southern Serbia, because we have witnessed that as a mile of highway ends, so do investors arrive in southern Serbia. The end of Corridor 10 for the town of Leskovac and for the entire Jablan County has great importance, because thanks to the completion of Corridor 10 we in Leskovac have built a new factory, the British factory "Activ" which will employ 2,500 workers and above all, as I said thanks to good traffic connections. Also, Grdelica, Varoš near Leskovec, was returned to Serbia's industrial map the moment he arrived on the highway to Grdelica, and two new investors who had been able to get new jobs and liven up after many years of robbery privatisation. Also in Leban, the Jablani County opened a new factory after 30 years, primarily thanks to good traffic connections. That's why we are right today, and rightly we can talk about building highways because we are aware that good infrastructure is actually the basis for the comprehensive development of a country. In the end, I just want to thank the citizens of the entire Jablanic district for recognising the importance of building a twin around Leskovec, because that way all the goods that are exported and imported to Lebane and Bojnik...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47129	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47130	That way, all goods exported to Lebanon and Major will bypass the central city core, and it will have...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47131	Thank you. To inform only that MPs from the SNS parliamentary group have spent the time they are scheduled, so they have only the time they have as applicants. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, the basic precondition for the development of a municipality is to build the necessary travel infrastructure. There is no arrival of investors, development of tourism, agriculture and other industries, if the operators of these developments have no place to come, and the producers themselves who produce their products have no place to place them and their products. The essential priority for Bajna Basta is building a tunnel under the Kadinjaca. This tunnel should cut the road between two cities by six kilometers and time in 15 to 20 minutes. It will avoid a series of risk elbows of curves on the Kadinča, which the snows know to make difficult for the inhabitants of this region and other drivers who find themselves on this section, especially during the winter when this road is often and impenetrable especially for trailers and trucks with trailers. Just imagine what it's like for future mothers who in the winter months have to cross the Kadinach to have a baby in Užica, because there's a health center or there's an emergency driver who's often at risk of life to save people's lives. The planned tunnel would be 1350m long and the value of the investment per project is about 26m euros. These days, the main project is expected to be completed, and hopefully, after the main project is completed, we will join the construction of this very important investment for Baja Basta, as well as Užice. The entrance from the Bajina Basta route, counting and access route, would be in the Atar of the village of Zaglavak, while the exit would be in Volujajska polje, on the territory of the town of Užica. The concept of planned travel networks is based on increasing traffic accessibility, all public, business, tourist and populated centres, thus ensuring the passivity of an area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47133	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47134	Thank you for mentioning this tunnel. Every time I went to Užice, I was more in Užica than in Baja Garden, we talked about this project, and the status of this project. I believe that coming to Baja's garden will be new information about how we're going to finance that tunnel. What you should know, among other things, is, not only for this tunnel, but when certain roads cross, or concern at least two municipalities, then make plans, determine and solve only the Ministry. So, Uzice, of course, knows everything about this tunnel, and I believe we're really going to make it through the main project next year. That's about, one promise we have from "The Way of Serbia", not a promise, it's simply a deadline, and I hope we can finally find the money and end it. I understand, above all, security, and then, of course, tourism and everything else that comes to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47135	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Comrade Jolović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47136	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, in Article 2 of the Bill on Construction Products, adds item 3 that reads - the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to even development. The proposed amendment gives full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia's measures and really gives wind to the back, construction in Serbia. Construction has indeed been the bearer of our country in recent years and an indication that by working hard, we can achieve truly envious results and achieve the highest goals in this area. Not only did the government and the resolution ministry invest in Serbia's infrastructure, but they worked tirelessly to reduce too many bureaucratic procedures that make it difficult for the entire economy and the market to develop. Equal development is something this government recognized as an idea that could, and how to contribute to the development of the Republic of Serbia, and for me as someone who comes from Novi Pazar, the even development of Serbia is really of great importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47137	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47138	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we talked about highways and I wanted to talk a little bit more about the construction of the E-80 sector of the East highway, so the section of the highway that is very important and that goes from Nis to the border with Bulgaria for more than 86km and is an integral part of the European international road E-80. The construction of this stock is realised through 12 construction contracts, entrusted to six performers from six countries with the engagement of a large number of domestic producers. Physical progress on the project to build Corridor 10, direction E-80, east of Nis towards the Bulgarian border is about 97%. I will read only the shares that have been completed and which have been released in traffic, which are the Red River – Chiflik, Chiflik – Stanice, Piroth-Dimitrovgrad, as well as the tunnels and bypasses of Dimitrovgrad. Due to complex field configuration, the stock features five tunnels, 87 bridges, five traffic loops. In order to build this, it was necessary to regulate the water flows, to ensure that all cut-off travel communications were removed from all voltage levels. In the sector of the East, the most technologically demanding is the completion of the Brnzarevo-Red River, because it is a project that visits the nature park, the Sićevačka gorge. The construction of a highway on the section in question meant stabilising 27 pieces and building five bridges. On a daily basis, about 100 workers, directly on the track and about 180 units of machinery, were hired every week. So, at any moment, we have to keep in mind what the construction of the highway means and how complex the business is, and I'm going to use the Chinese proverb to finish this announcement that says – if you want to be rich, build roads first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47139	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinović, Kolega Martinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have been exposed here for several days to attacks that you are allegedly a traitor to KIM, and I want to say for the sake of the citizens of Serbia how much has been done on KIM when it comes to your ministry. Therefore, 143 individual residential buildings were built and 343 collective housing facilities were built, a total of 882 residential buildings were built. They are currently being performed at the "Rajska Banja" complex in Banjsko, the municipality of Zvecan, whose total value is 478 million dinars. Also, the government of the Republic of Serbia approved 1408 requests for assistance in construction material for Serbs who remained to live on KIM between 2014 and 2018. What is important is also to highlight, and what is directly your jurisdiction, it is that very intensive programs related to construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation and rehabilitation of roads, streets, then railway infrastructures and road facilities at KIM. They're supported, all these projects by your ministry totaling over 615 million dinars. It is also important to point out that at the current stage of the construction of the settlement "Suncan Valley" in the municipality of Zvecan, where the roof above the head will find about 1500 citizens and that is about 300 families, and the total value of the works is almost 562 million dinars. I am saying this because of the fact that some of these subsistence data make it very clear that for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for the President of the Republic of Serbia, the KIM is also an integral part of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47141	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Comrade Mitrovica, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47142	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on construction products. Article 2 The draft law on construction products defines the concepts used in this law, such as the construction product family, essential characteristics of construction products, performance of construction products, product type, technical specification and Serbian technical specification. The objective to achieve this bill is certainly to create conditions for construction products which are placed and made available on the market of the Republic of Serbia, which are incorporated into buildings to meet the prescribed requirements regarding meeting the basic requirements for buildings and achieving greater competitiveness of domestic actors on the market, construction product manufacturers and bodies to assess compliance. Both on the domestic market for construction products and on the EU market and other global markets. What I'm saying is that it's extremely good, what the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to build apartments for members of security forces, and how the Ministry has issued two building permits at locations in Vranje for 186 apartments and Nis 190 apartments, and when we talk about Vranje, it is good for 186, that members of the security forces can resolve their housing issues, especially those members of the security forces working in the land zone under extremely difficult and complicated conditions with an increased level of risk for the safety of these security forces. I call on my fellow Members to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47143	Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Bulatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47144	The chairman, on the proposal for a law on construction products, I submit an amendment to Article 2 in order to add Article 3 that reads - the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the increase in investment in the economy. One of Alexander Vukic's campaign's pre-election promises in 2014, was that the state would change its attitude towards the Pcinj County, which was then burdened with a number of problems. If he had fulfilled his promise, perhaps the best proof that the Vranj has been realised so far and that serious projects are being implemented today with the help of the Ministry of Industry and with the specific participation of the city of Vranj, total values of over 500 million dinars. I would only mention some - construction of a bypass to a free zone, phase 1A, construction, also, the 1B bypasses, total values of about 160 million dinars; then, making technical documentation for training centre in a free zone, total values of about two million dinars; then, infrastructure equipment of a free zone, total values of around 11 million and 300,000 dinars. In addition, the construction of atmospheric and fecal sewers in the free zone, where the value of the works is estimated at around 11 million and 200 thousand dinars. In addition to infrastructure equipment for the free zone itself, construction of a new kindergarten in the town settlement of Raška is under way, where the value of the works is estimated at around 190 million dinars. In addition to these projects that are under way, so far, with the help of the Ministry of Economy and with the participation of the city, the following projects have been implemented – the reconstruction of Radnička Street, which goes next to Simpo to the reconstructed railway station building, and about 37 million dinars have been spent on the works. In addition, an elevator has been installed at the Public Constitutional Centre for the Development of Local Social Protection Services...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47145	You're bringing the end, colleague Bulatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47147	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Birmanevich, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47148	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the amendment that I submitted to the construction product law, I think it will further improve this law, and I expect that this law, as long as the city administration in Šapco was missing, that after 18 years of government, from 2000 to 1018, from 46 local communities, or 46 villages, belonging to the Municipality of Šabac, may, at this time in 42 local communities, there are no meters of water-building, or built-up sewage network in 42 villages, respectively. So, after 18 years of government of the yellow company in 42 villages of the Sabac municipality, there is not one metre of built water network, not one metre of built sewerage network, which shows only the haughtiness, inability and lies that are representatives of the yellow company before 2000 and on here, since 2000, the run DS, and now together for Serbia, and in the latest alliance for the embezzlement and fraud of Serbia are trying to find out which path of fraud and the citizens of Capca, but not only the citizens of Capca and Serbia. People go to Strasbourg to complain about their citizens, their country and democracy. In that democracy, they have not built a meter of water or sewerage net in 42 villages in Šapec in 18 years. Let them take with them, when they go to Strasbourg, a report by the DRI, in which fivem euros were abused in just one year 2015, stolen and kidnapped from the budget of the town of Sapca, a drastic and a real example of how the budget is being misused and how the rest of the yellow company is being stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47149	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47150	Thank you for bringing this up. You know, I would understand that, let's just say, they didn't have enough money, that they couldn't, or that they might not have deployed it properly, in the sense that they didn't know, but the thing is, they know very well, and wherever the SNS is on every board, in the part of the Pawca where it beat the SNS, they stopped everything there. We've been together so many times, and we've seen wherever she beat SNS people, they've been punished, they couldn't even have a road, they've been shut down. Everything they could destroy in those parts of the Whisper, they did, and that's what's unforgivable, that when someone gets power, they abuse that power in such a way. I really think Shabatz is an example of what that coalition is doing with all the people in it, so we know. The citizens see.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47151	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague of David's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47152	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the construction economy is a very important business branch for the functioning of our economy in general. With the development of the company's production forces, construction becomes a significant business area, associated with a large number of business activities, more than 30, whose products are used as a means of work or materials for construction and installation in construction buildings. The effects of the current legal framework on economic operators in this area are seen in the discrepancies of domestic legislation with European legislation, resulting in entities operating on the domestic and EU market having double costs to prove that they meet the required standards in the markets in which they operate, as well as double procedures, which automatically affects the competitiveness of our producers. Most of the regulations of the 1980s and 1990s have not been changed so far and as such create obstacles to the free movement of goods. Serbia will first pass a law governing this area, while all the countries in the environment have adopted legislation, and in the EU regulations have been dating back to 1989. Given the fact that there is no accredited domestic conformity assessment body in Serbia, although we have adopted all harmonised standards in the past to realise the projects, we have so far hired accredited bodies from the EU to assess the quality of construction products. By adopting this law, this problem will be resolved in a timely manner, which will contribute to increasing the use of funds from EU accession funds. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47153	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47154	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government with their associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, as we could hear, the draft law on construction products will in a comprehensive and unique way regulate this area and bring it into line in all segments with EU standards and best practice. So we are harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, which will have multiple meanings and purpose for us as well. In fact, we will have a regulated market for construction products, a high level of quality of materials used in the construction industry and construction works, all of which will allow more favourable prices for investors through the acceleration of competition among the producers themselves. In addition, we will raise standards in our construction industry in Serbia and our domestic producers will thus be competitive on the European market, as we will have standards identical to those in the EU. This means that our producers will be able to place their products on the EU market as well, which I think is very important and very important both for them and for our country. The proposed law will be an incentive to further develop construction and buildings will be safe and safe and environmentally acceptable, preserving the life and health of people throughout the life cycle of construction facilities. The bill also held a public debate in the cities of Serbia, as well as in the town of Nis on 16 August 2017, so that all interested parties had the opportunity to discuss the law, to make their views, remarks, proposals, of course, suggestions. Another piece of information when it comes to the Planning Act and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47155	Thank you, colleague Todorovic. National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Radičević's, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47156	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on construction products, where I suggested that item 3 be added, all with the aim of further defining the subject matter of this law. The construction sector, which includes construction products, is considered one of the main sources of economic growth, development, as well as economic activities. There is no economic development of a country without a strong industry, and in particular the construction industry and it is good that the Ministry of Civil Engineering recognized and edited the area of construction products by this bill. From year to year, the construction sector records the growth of production, and this is another proof that our country is on a good path to economic recovery, thanks to the SNS and our ministers who are not the main task of filling their own budget, but of filling the state register and developing industry and industrial production. The construction sector is the main source of employment, given that it is a labour intensive industry, it does not depend on whether the country is highly developed or not, but is due to the fact that all countries depend on the construction projects they have. Looking at globally, globally, in developed countries, construction has a greater share in increasing production, while in less developed countries there is a greater importance of looking at reducing unemployment, which certainly does not reduce the importance of production, from an economic point of view. Therefore, the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure has the support of my colleagues and me, not only for this law but for all infrastructure facilities that are being built today in our beautiful country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47157	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47158	As is known in Serbia, about half a million exiled Serbs live from today's Croatia, the Federation of BiH and over 200,000 internally displaced persons, from Kosovo and Metohija, it is almost 10% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The population faces a large number of problems, particularly the problems of returning property, acquired, status and other rights in places and areas from where they were expelled, and on the other hand it faces a major problem of resolving key integration issues. One of the most important issues of integration is the issue of housing. Several thousand housing units for refugees, internally displaced persons, were built in Serbia in the previous period. However, we have one problem that I have talked about several times with Mrs. Mihajlovic, we have also had meetings, namely, we have 530 families living in seven cities in Serbia, these are Nis, Kragujevac, Valjevo, Kraljevo, Panchevo, Stara Pazova. What's the problem? These 530 families are the only categories of this vulnerable population that have no right to buy their housing units. The Serbian and Italian government's memorandum gave them the right. Unfortunately, during Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic, that right was taken from them. I once again appeal to Mrs. Mihajlovic to organise meetings with the Prime Minister's Office, to see if we can solve this problem and allow these people to get the right... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47159	Thanks, buddy. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Dusica Stojkovic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Col. Stojkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47160	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Serbia has progressed five places on the global competitiveness index, published every year by the World Economic Forum and in this year we are really recording great results, we are better for as many as five places. I really want from this place and from these parliamentary benches to you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, but also from all the resolute ministers in the current Government of the Republic of Serbia that I really congratulate you on the excellent result. By adopting this law, the Law on Construction Products, we will actually allow our domestic construction products to be more concrete on the domestic and European market. This law also leads us to a step towards the EU. I would like to remind all of my dear fellow Members, the MPs, that as a member of the Committee on European Integration, I can say that this is one really important law. I don't agree with the opposition that this is technical law. This law will lead us to adopt all the legislation contained in Chapter 1, relating to freedom of movement of goods. It is estimated that the European Commission estimates that there are as many as 120 procedures and regulations relating to freedom of movement and the safety of construction products. I don't agree with the opposition that this is technical law. I would send all of them to our construction companies, where workers are employed, I would send them all those construction firms to see how difficult it is today to export construction products, how difficult it is to provide products that are competitors in the developed EU market. Then and since these are not technical laws, these are some modern laws that will allow further incentives to develop construction in our country, but will also allow the buildings built in this country to be safer and more environmentally secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47161	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47162	The Honored Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, and today we have continued to talk about the Construction Products Act and what is particularly important is that, first of all, the provisions proposed by the proposed provisions of this law, we expect to level the quality of construction materials, which is expected to establish a single standardisation, which will definitely result in the quality of infrastructure facilities built on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What I would also like to talk about today is one infrastructure project that I mentioned in my previous presentation, which concerns first of all the lives and survival of the Serb people in Toplička County. In addition to those very significant reasons relating to infrastructure, I must mention that commercial reasons are also very important. Why do I say that? Because a large number of cars moving from Merošina to Merdara practically, here I mean, first of all, cars passing through the season of summer tourist season, the break-up of children, these are cars, first of all, persons, those persons, foreign citizens crossing the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, who are not charged any travel fees, i.e. tolls from Nis to Merdar, for the reason that from Meroshina to Merdar is practically a highway. In this way, by building this road, or highway in full profile, that toll charge would be regular and in this way the state would have a significant interest in all of this. First of all, let me say that the experts will give the final word. Once again, I would like to point out that the industrial zone planned in Prokuplje, and the government's decision was taken at a cabinet session held in Prokuplje. It is planned to be built at 16.5 hectares and needs a full profile of the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47163	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. Mr Dragomir Karic answered. Just to let you know that the parliamentary group you belong to has no more time. ( Dragomir Karic: After the amendment? You don't have the option of answering your phone, the time has been spent. You can do it on some other basis, according to the Rules of Procedure, maybe. Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here is my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I disagree with Dragoljub Karic on the course of the country's development. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, there are countries that have gold and diamonds, and they are poor. There are countries that have none of that, now I quote one individual – and they are rich because people are organized. It's all in the organization. These before us couldn't organize the state, and here I primarily think about agriculture and the processing industry. We today, Europe has one paroleal throat of cattle per hectare, we have 0.33. We produce grains more than the current stock of cattle, so we can produce a billion pounds of meat, plus eggs, plus milk. So that's worth two billion unworked. That would be a new product. It would be worth four or five billion. We have to get organized. It's a long-term process. We must organize and remove the mistakes of the previous regimes, in order for this country to progress. With that in mind, we need to make typical farms, which will be made of natural materials and other materials. Except that we're going to produce livestock and meat live scales, to produce renewable energy, from natural fertilisers and from green mass. In this way, unlike the energy generated by the wind and the sun, we would have a more stable source of energy, which would provide processors that would process meat, milk and eggs and thus make bread for all our inhabitants, especially in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47165	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. My colleague Dragomir Karic has a word. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respect for Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues and respected viewers who look at us in front of small screens, so I would disagree with my friend, Mr. Risticevic, and at all with all the opposition who claim this is technical law. We support the full amendments of Dusica Stojkovic and Darka Laketić, and normally, I believe that the development of construction materials is one basic and strategic thing for each country, especially for Serbia, which moves at a furiose rate towards the European Union. So the laws to be passed, the laws governing the rights of all producers are extremely important and necessary today, especially support, given, should never be forgotten that Serbian companies were an engine and supplied the whole of that former Yugoslavia with most construction materials. This is what we need to repeat and restore today, whether we have a country in the European Union or not. I support all these amendments, I support the law and I think, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, that you are completely on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47167	Thank you, colleague Karic. The word has Gjorge Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47168	Dear fellow citizens, those who still have the patience to watch this, we have now seen in action and an example of how this debate is being held and, among other things, why the opposition MPs do not want to participate. Not because they're lazy, not because they have nothing to say, but because...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47169	Do you participate or do you not participate?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47170	I'm in, but I'm talking about other colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47171	There you go, there you go, there's no one to defend you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47172	Chairman, you have also violated the Rules of Procedure and what-what other things you have done by accepting a little bit of time when my colleague Karic, here I am now mentioning him and he will have the right to say something, when he wanted to speak, so you informed him that there is no longer time for their parliamentary group, and then you first offered him to maybe advertise the Rules of Procedure. Since he couldn't handle it, then his colleague took it and mentioned it, completely lame, in a way that he would be mentioned, so that he would get the right to speak. So, not only does the practice of meaningless or phantom amendments continue, I simply have to say for the public, the practice of putting forward hundreds of amendments, which have nothing to do with the first uncontested law, at the first undeniable point of the agenda, continues. You have now heard for a little while that this amendment that I am talking about is about agricultural products, agricultural production, milk, meat, etc., and the item of the agenda is the second member of the law of the first point of the law on construction products. The senseless amendments, the phantom amendments, we've said it here many times, but that practice continues, and then you wonder why there's no opposition in these benches. At the same time, that time is used only and exclusively: under a – to praise the Government, which I can understand, against which I have nothing, but then make sure you at least formulate these amendments so that they have something to do with the topic which is agenda and second, for endless spit on the opposition, criticism of the opposition, the inconspicuous people here, some alliances of which I am not a member, some are. Someone watching this transmission thinks that Gilas and Jeremic are members of this parliament, do not keep getting them out of your mouth, these people. I never mentioned them, you keep mentioning them. So, you're fighting some phantoms, some enemy you're not sitting here with, that you say is small, insignificant, unaffected. A tycoon-fascist or Latvian coalition is mentioned. Every expression, every word requires, in fact, punishment, reminder or intervention of the chairman. There's never an intervention like that. And I, like my colleague Janjušević, received warnings in our time, because I said that amendments are phantom, and my colleague Janjušević because she said, I don't know, that this policy sells or teaches KIM. So, double arches, triple arches. And then you wonder why the opposition is gone. It's not a problem the opposition doesn't have. I know that it is good for you when there is no opposition, and then you are so mutually, I am serdaring to you, you, my duke, with occasional spit on the absent and absent representatives of the opposition, but I am telling you, Parliament is not serving it and it will not be good for all of us if it does not break down with this practice. It's my appeal, so on the one hand to explain to the public that the opposition's not taking part in this debate, it's not because he doesn't want to participate, but because he doesn't want to participate in a play that's being performed, here, for almost a year now, where for days the amendments that those who submit know won't be adopted and they comment on these amendments know they have nothing to do with anything and they refuse to explain it. It is paradoxical that my smallness has one amendment that has been accepted on Article 2, and hundreds of amendments by the ruling party have not been accepted, because they are neither tolerated to be accepted, but only to waste time. So much for that, I'm not going to, just, I'm just, I'm just distracting you. I see they're already waving at the business, and I see that there are criticisms and a hickey on these well-intentioned words of someone who wants good to this House, who has nothing against you either, and who is the constant target of the lowest, most primitive and ground-based attacks in this House have been these days and will be the next days. That's not the problem. It is, after all, something that belongs to a part of Parliament's life, but it is not good if the practice of Parliament, this Parliament, only comes down to a senseless spit on political opponents, not to discuss what is a common matter and which has brought us here, which we should discuss, therefore, laws. If there are no objections, if the law is good, I end it, if the law is good, well, why do you need such amendments? We won't spend it either, we'll finish it early, we'll save three days of debate, and we'll save no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47173	Thank you. Here, you've spent over four minutes, and you haven't said a single letter about the amendment, or the draft laws that are on the agenda. Of course, that's why, not because you're a member of the opposition, I've given you the opportunity to say what you want and send a message to both the citizens and all of us here in the O.R., but I don't think that makes any sense. We have very important bill proposals. We have a minister who is very active and ready to give answers and discuss. As for the amendments, as you say, meaningless, phantom, we're already, I've given a lecture on television that's haunting us here from most of us every day. I think we're done with that story. As for the opposition, you have the SRS, you have Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinovic, Balša Bozovica. If they're not the opposition, all of them here, I don't know who they are. I wouldn't agree with you. You've now caused a whole salvo of apparitions on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. You didn't answer first. I take very, very good care of the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47174	Thank you. The 107th is a matter of dignity, Mr. Chairman. A lot of reasons. Let's do this about amendments that Djordje Vukadinovic doesn't understand. I don't expect him to ever understand it, nor do I expect, if he understands, to admit that these things are understood, but for his information, amendments submitted by SNS MPs are adopted. Some are also adopted at this session, and those who are terribly intruding to Mr. Vukadinovic and you are adopted, just you. He doesn't know that, because he can't even know if he was in the congregation, then he would know. When he comes straight out of breakfast like this, and I know he'll be gone in a few minutes, he can't know that. The other thing, the gentleman referred to the question of commenting on people who aren't in this room. You know, when I hear something like that, I can't help but wonder out loud – what happens when he and his likes, those who belong to the tycoon-Ljutić coalition... That's what it's called, there's nothing offensive about it. Tikuni, it is a universal term, used by Bosko Obradovic, co-ordinator of the tycoon-Ijotićski alliance. He uses that word. Ljotićevci, it's from Dimitri LJotic, whom the co-ordinator Bosko Obradovic celebrates. So these are all their terms. There's nothing ugly or controversial about it. So what happens when they all talk together about Alexander Wolfie who's not in this room? What's that, then? Is that nice, correct? Come on, what they're saying, than they're making it up. Did you do constructions together at this session, build yourself what Alexander Vukic could think, and he never said anything, I mean all of you group, something man doesn't say, or do, and you fantasize -- maybe he wanted this, maybe he wanted it, and all the structures you made yourself, and then you entertained them further and you further elaborated on them. What's that, then? Not only at this session, you do it constantly, you do not take Alexander Vukic out of your mouth, but when you say what is unacceptable, what is the bottom, what is the lowest possible, you know what it is, those are calls for rapes that you have never condemned, these are calls for hangings which, not that you have not condemned, but Gjorge Vukadinovic himself said – which in the Terrace, is a place for patriotism. That's the bottom of the bottom.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47175	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Now in order, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, George Komlenski. Here you go. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. I had to delete the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47176	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, a member of the 27th and Article 107 of Rule 2 of this Rules of Procedure has been injured. In fact, since the phantom opposition, we've been listening here to insult the way we talk about some phantom amendments. The amendments exist, the amendments are submitted, they are discussed. The fact that we're not having a hard time wasting our time and making an effort to endure a large enough number of amendments, to get a number of them accepted, to improve the laws, I really don't see any basis for it to be insulting by colleagues who talked about this part of the phantom opposition that appears here only from time to time to probably sign the list there that they were today, to be seen. In addition, using the word spit. I didn't notice anyone spit in here. If they do, it only happened that Mr. Marijan Risticevic was spit in this house and we discussed it a long time ago. What else is one of the shames? After so many mandates that a man does not know the Rules of Procedure, that he does not know that everyone has the right to replication if he is called by someone from another parliamentary group, that he has no idea that Marijan Risticevic is a member of the Socialist Movement Group, People's Peasants, United Peasants' Party, and Mr Dragomir Karic is in the second SNS parliamentary group, it is truly fantastic. So, I'm still asking you, since you're in charge of order and custody at this session, I don't see, I didn't bring my glasses at a distance, I have the impression that the lightning on that door upstairs is on the right and that someone's banging is heard from there, so please ask security to close the door, if that's the reason for that slamming you're hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47177	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. As far as knowing the Rules of Procedure is concerned, it is not my job to teach anyone the provisions and the members of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, an injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47178	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106(1) states that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda under which the search is conducted. As you have just concluded, Djordje Vukadinovic spent four minutes reporting after the amendment, and he did not say anything about the amendment. The basis of my report to the Rules of Procedure is that you didn't interrupt him or at least you didn't warn him and return him to the agenda points we're talking about. We've been talking here today, for a week and a half, about a very important set of laws from the Ministry of Construction, Traffic and Infrastructure, and all we can hear from the other side is attacks on both SNS and Alexander Vukic. No one in this room is attacking the opposition. On the contrary, we want the opposition to hear some constructive proposals, some constructive criticisms, so that we can put the bill in order, if possible, as a matter of fact. Just tell me -- why do you allow the phantom amendments to be discussed, the pointless amendments to the SNS MPs sitting here and who have been here since 10 in the morning, not since 12, not since four in the afternoon, but from 10 in the morning until the end of the day when the sitting is over? Then my colleague Vukadinovic wonders and says, "Why are they waving business across the street?" We don't wave at business. We're acting on the Rules of Procedure to be treated by the MPs who are all in this room. There's no need for us here to respect how we're doing a hack on the opposition MPs, because that's not true? I ask you to return the session to your current session so that we can discuss a very important set of draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47179	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word is "The Faith of Radet, "the violation of the Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47180	Article 32. Rules of Procedure. I believe that it was not easy for you to listen to Gjorge Vukadinović who walked in the first or second time during this working week and who was saying something that had nothing to do with the amendments, or the amendment that was on the agenda, but it was already seen, but as you sit there, you have to follow what he says, no matter how much you don't like it, and you have to react, not when he's done, but immediately during his speech. Djordje Vukadinovic said twice – the opposition does not participate in the work on amendments. Amazing lie, deception. Serbian citizens should know that the opposition participates in the debate on amendments, SRS MPs, the parliamentary group that is the largest parliamentary group and the largest parliamentary party in Serbia at the moment. If 22, let's say, on some draft law we submit 120 amendments, and the MPs of most 140, 150, I don't know how many, they submit 300 or 400 amendments, then you see how much we do. Do we participate in the interpretation of each of our amendments until the time for discussion is up according to the amendments? We're in. Are our amendments, as you said, some phantom, order works, etc. or are amendments that really point to certain problems in the bill in relation to what the SRS position is? Are we discussing with the minister? Yeah. Do we share our knowledge, our views on the work of both the Minister and the Ministry? Yeah. Are we opposed to the ruling majority? Yeah. Are we talking about them in their absence? No, brother, until they get here, until they're hammered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47181	Thank you. I warned my colleague Vukadinovic, although he has the right to think that he is personally and solely the only member of the opposition. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Now in turn, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Serbia's Filipovic, so if no one has reported to the Rules of Procedure Balsa Bozovic, the right to the replica Dragomir Karic, as amended by Maja Vidinovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. That's the order. Here's a colleague of Filipovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47182	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 108. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly - on the order of the session, the President of the National Assembly, in this case you as Vice-President, is taking care of. You have to take care more of what he said earlier across from us and what he said was that we were some phantoms, some villains, all the worst in this country, actually just doesn't know what he's saying anymore. When they wake up, here's what it is now, 12 o'clock, they obviously didn't get enough sleep, because it's about four, five o'clock this afternoon, that time when they start working as much as they do. So, they're late, they haven't had a good time, they haven't had a shower, so they come here, they're kind of rushing out their evils in front of the cameras and the citizens of Serbia. Unfortunately for them, Serbian citizens know very well who they are, what they are, they know what kind of contracts they had with "Lutria of Serbia", they know that they gambled not only money, but also the future of Serbian and Serbian citizens will certainly not allow them, in some subsequent elections, either as Vlasi, or that as some others, ever again enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47183	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising Article 101. So what confuses me is that on several occasions you've been giving replicas to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, it's number one. So you also made it impossible for Djorđa Vukadinovic to say what he had and explain everything he was attacked for in the violation of the Rules of Procedure abused by the Verse of Radet. That's one piece of article 101. The second part of Article 101 is, can you, as chairman, at least give me a notice as to whether the head of the SNS in parliament is at his post or at another post at the Higher Medical School in Ćupria where he was illegally elected as a lecturer, along with Mr. Orlic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47185	Wait for my colleague, Bozovic. (Maya Vidinovic: Let him finish.) I can't let anything go. You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, you mentioned Article 101, aware, and you know that the reasoning of this member and my violation of article 101 has nothing to do with what you have stated. (Balsa Bozovic: To interrupt the session. ) Yes, but it is a session interruption for the start of the second session. Interrupt session due to order at session means one other member. Continue on my injury to the Rules of Procedure only when it comes to the debate on the amendment of counterpart Marijana Risticevic. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47186	So what's very important is that citizens know about the MPs they pay. In this House, it's the citizens who give us money for what we're doing here, and then I just wanted to know, if the citizens are already giving money to us sitting here, what makes some people who aren't here pay for it? It was only important to me that you, as chairman, tell me - is Martinović in Higher Medical Employment, so it's more important to him than the National Assembly, because the citizens pay him here and there, and he has a salary there, despite those two, he has four more. So, six salaries, so to only know the priorities, that citizens can know if SNS's priority is a medical school... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47187	Time, my colleague Bozovic. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it makes any sense, nor is it collegiate, nor is it correct, nor is it gentlemanly that we even do what our colleagues do, how they do. This is a free country, a market economy, everyone has the right to work and make money and anything else in accordance with the Law and the Constitution. (Balsa Bozovic throws. ( ) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? I suppose you'd like to return the system from 80 years ago and count who's doing what or whether he's allowed to do and contribute. Thank you. Vladimir Orlic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47188	And Article 103, Mr. Chairman, you know by yourself, gives you the right to react when something like this happens. What exactly happened? I understand. Balsa Bozovic, a man who has already properly embarrassed himself at this session, has come because he has been caught in flagrant lies. He's done it before. He had already done that, and he was just letting him know that Aleksandar Martinovic and that Balsa Bozovic lied that we were submitting some amendments and that he lied about who he was in and what member of the law he was referring to, lied about the contents of the amendments, about everything possible and impossible he lied about. It made him aware of Aleksandar Martinovic. It obviously hurt Balša Bozovica. Then the next day, he entered the hall of Balsa Bozovic again and showed how much dibidus has no idea of history, and the history of Serbia, but also the history of its own party, that evil may be worse. This was made clear to him by Aleksandar Martinovic. Now it's happening - what? Balsa Bozovic is terribly angry, he cannot forgive himself for turning out as he has already turned out, whether, twice in a row, in which he was exposed by Aleksandar Martinovic. He's coming here today and you know what he's doing? He's lying again. So what he's saying now, it's also, absolutely, nothing true. I don't expect it to be any better than that, because Balsa Bozovic has shown that he is unable to speak even the elementary truth. (Balsa Bozovic: You fired eight women to get a job. ) The one who throws now, this nervous man, probably also additionally dissatisfied that Aleksandar Martinovic reminded him of how well he made, burned and burned, painted Belgrade, flew to the Maldives, of all the things that Alexander Martinovic reminded him of, apparently, so proud that he had to show it. When he does it through a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have to act. I was the last time Balsa Bozovic had problems of this kind suggested to Mr Arsic, he chaired at the time, that if there was room within the Rules of Procedure Božovic further sent for washing, it was necessary, today he would ask you to send him for washing, additionally to give him sugar and water. He really needs it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47189	Thank you, colleague Orlic. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure and, of course, I'm going to fight, as I am today, and in the next period, there's simply no need here to mention what anybody does, how they do, and what I support more, let a man do five universities and colleges. I guess that's what we were fighting for so everyone could work and have the right to work. I guess that's basic civilization and human rights. The Belief of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47190	Article 27(1) You really had to react sharply to Balša Bozovic's injuries this time. I wasn't sure about those statements that we heard here that he got a degree at the Bonafides bar, I thought he might have actually been in law school, but he was so embarrassed by what he just said was really obvious that the Law School didn't even see it, because he says that you hurt the Rules of Procedure several times these days. The fact that he's only been in this room a few times these days, it's his problem, his choice and his right, but he has no right to comment on any violation of the Rules of Procedure, even if it happened, which happened several times in the previous days. Much more dangerous, my colleague, is that Balsa Bozovic intervened under Article 101. Article 101 speaks of the selection of Members of Parliament. He's a man who hits the Constitution directly. How can he intervene and seek some change from the elected MPs? People's MPs have been elected by citizens in the elections and will be re-elected in the elections. It is past the time of 2000, past the time of the "Buldozer of the Revolution", past the time of the burning of election material to come to parliament. The fact that he thinks it might be a way to come to parliament, it's his thing, but you really had to stop him right away, to distract him that Balsa Bozovic is not the one and none of us are the ones who can call on a member of 101 who talks about the election of MPs. If he has a problem with the way the MPs are elected, let him roll his sleeves, suggest an amendment to the law, ensure that he is voted for by the law, but someone who has finished, who has received a bona fides diploma, is hardly able to propose a serious law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47191	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, although you're 90% right, this article 101 has nothing to do with what he said and what Mr Bozovic pointed to. I wouldn't go so far as to get into whether he was thinking in a way consistent with the Constitution or not. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Now, in accordance with Article 112, I am setting a three-minute break. We'll continue after that. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47193	Dear Chairman, I must use within my two minutes to say that I am very dissatisfied with the way you do. You allow Boza Balsevic here to fool us three days in the same way, etc. On whose orders... (Balsa Bozovic: When you're dirty.) Give him your word, let him continue, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47194	Please continue, colleague Yokic. Let's not earn each other and continue to behave with dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47195	It's not his fault, it's our fault we let him do what he's doing. Now my two minutes begin, though I'm distracted, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47196	Don't let anyone distract you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47197	I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I Dear Minister, I have to ask you something, I've met you, remember you were in Valjevo, we have in Divci, in my hometown of Divci Airport now called Valjevo, with a built runway of 1,150 meters, with a depth of 1,5 m. Done runway, grassland in 1981, was done by the Yugoslav Army, only missing final, meaning concrete, i.e. asphalting. That airport, I allow myself to say that in a suspicious, criminal way in 2000 it was privatized by certain actions, etc. It should be examined and put into operation. The airport can be without major problems, since the following fields are, there are no buildings, there are no buildings, so without major problems with small investment, the runway can be longer for some 600 m. Valjevo can't handle it now, because such relations...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47198	Thank you, buddy, I've let you have extra time that's been stopped for dropping in the O.R. Thank you very much. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47199	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, if we had this Construction Products Act adopted ten years ago, surely today wouldn't have to do a complete reconstruction of the section of the highway from LJig to Ub, we wouldn't be spending new funds, it would have been known what material was invested in all this. So it is obvious that this law has an exceptional impact on infrastructure resources as well as on the development of the Republic of Serbia. Instead of reconstructing those several kilometers of highways that are not cheap at all, and as far as I know, reconstructions are usually more expensive than building a new one when it starts from the beginning. We'd probably get at least 20 more kilometers of a new highway, but we're right where we are. Sometimes even laws are not necessary if work is done by responsible people, so work is done within the time limit, in an appropriate manner, in accordance with the relevant standards, but in any case with this law it will be much easier. The adoption of this law and the citizens of Obrenovac will be very pleased. We have never had a dilemma so far that the reconstruction of these 22 km of local roads Piroman, Brović, Belo Polje, Veliki Polje, Mislojin who were simply as I would say, sacrificed for the construction of the highway, will be quality built and done in time. What is good and what shows that always co-operation between the ministry and local self-government gives good results is that during the complete construction of the section of the highway from Obrenovac to Uba, the co-operation was really painted in the best possible way. We really rightly expect that in collaboration with the ministry before the share is released in the work from Obrenovac to Cačka, I say Cačka because it simply sounds easier than to explain to me, because there are some who do not know where Preljina is, and for Cačak they have all heard, simply the citizens of Obrenovac will, as they have suffered these five years, primarily the locals of Velika Polje, Brović, Mislođin, because the local roads where they came to the regional road came out and were destroyed. I have to say, they're completely destroyed. What's good is that really, at the ministry's recommendation, local self-government did what it was supposed to do and a full recording of those 22km times was done. And we really rightly expect that by December, when the highway is freed into its work and the citizens of Velika Polje, Brovic, Piromana and all those places that have suffered for the construction of the highway, they can feel the benefits of using the highway. It is clear that the highway will also have its full function for the citizens of Obrenovac in the right way, because some suffering is waiting for us in the future, and it will be when the bridge is over the Sava River and connects the complete share to Jacob, because what is now expected for us in some future period is probably a far more burdensome traffic on the stock between Mislođin and the practical Umka, going out on this road first row, because all traffic will further blend into this section. For this reason, we rightly expect at least this part of the time to be rescheduled so that we would simply have reason to bear with pleasure what awaits us in the next year, year and a half, until this remaining share is released into work, so that we can endure it in an easier way and implement it. Without you, it certainly won't go easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47200	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47201	So not only are all the local roads that are damaged, essentially heavy trucks in the construction of Corridor 11 and all of these shares, so Obrenovac-Ub, Ub-Lajkovac, Liykovac-LJig, but also the local roads that work, also on Corridor 10, where we also have similar situations. So, the ministry talked to all the performers, ordered the performers to have all these roads, of course, fix and Wednesday in agreement with the units of local self-government. Of course, there are some other detours that we have simply helped to make sure that everything that is possible is truly socially responsible and ended. You mentioned it, and of course there will be more, because we are starting New Belgrade-Surcin, Surcin-Obrenovac is working, etc. We'll face this problem all the time while it's working, but somewhere I think, it's important that we build roads, leave everything neat and orderly behind. You mentioned the Ub-Likovac section, and that's true how it used to be done. We're taking down a mile and a half that way. At first we thought two meters deep, now we've already reached four feet. It doesn't look like anything. It's all clay. And that's what they used to do. It is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia 12.5km, almost 80m euros is paid for, and we are now repairing that highway, so rework, practically, on that highway we pay close to $10m. Therefore, reports have been filed with the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, but this must never happen again, because standards must be respected. They were all there, and performers, and surveillance, etc. Unfortunately, they left us clay on the highway and if we hadn't picked it up now, we probably wouldn't have been able to run the freeway. But I do believe and hope that we can get all this done, as I said and announced, by the end of the year we have from Obrenovac to Preljina, i.e. Chačka highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47202	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Bojan Bag, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47203	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman. The esteemed Minister of Associates, fellow MPs, has repeatedly mentioned the need for the general regulation to regulate the placing on the market of construction products, as the most important reason for the adoption of this draft law on construction products. In order to ensure standardisation of construction products and safety on the market by placing only construction products which are suitable for intended use, i.e. they have characteristics that enable the facilities in which essential requirements are built in place, this law contains technical and other requirements that ensure the protection of human life and health, animal, plant and environmental protection, consumer protection and other users and the protection of property and of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of all investors. What we must publicly praise is the fact that the last two governments of the Republic of Serbia work in continuity. The fact is that during the term of office of these two governments there is political, economic and financial stability, as well as that great work has been done in the area of infrastructure, where projects that have been waiting for several decades today are being completed. All this has led to extraordinary financial results that have strengthened macroeconomic and financial stability in the previous period. Given that financial stability is a prerequisite for economic development that creates sustainable assumptions for reducing unemployment and GDP growth, the proposed law on construction products should contribute to strengthening and maintaining the stability of the financial system in Serbia. The consistent economic policy of the Republic government has led to real GDP growth in the second quarter of this year compared to the same period of the previous year at 4.8%, while the largest real growth in gross added value is recorded in the construction sector. We all know that the construction sector is the main driver of Serbia's economic growth and right here in the construction sector, during the second quarter of this year, the largest real growth of the gross added value of 22.9% was recorded, and given the country's serious investment activities, we can expect its further growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47204	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47205	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a Member of the Socialist Movement and, above all, as a woman, and this time I have an obligation to request and ask my colleague Balša Bozovic to apologize to our colleague Natashi Jovanovic for all the provocations and all the insults of the other day. In each of his next presentations, I'm going to beg him to do so. For reasons I wonder if he was reading my amendment, to read, because I'm talking, for example, about budgetary stabilisation. Well, would you read, as was the objective of the amendment, which is that we should have a more stable budget, in order to invest in infrastructure, in roads, in economics, etc., or be guided by some of its principles, to say a larger budget, more space for illegal actions. Besides, I'm not going to deal with it, it'll be determined by some investigative authorities. Also, I would like to ask myself this way, why my colleague Jerkov, who otherwise did not condemn any behaviour, scandalous behaviour towards women, began by Zeljko Vesenovic, who called for the rape of the prime minister, through some who beat women, and finally the behaviour of counterpart Balša Bozovic towards our colleague Natasa Jovanovic. I've never heard from her that she stepped into the protection of women. It's her. Also, the coordinator of the Women's Parliamentary Network, as I am, so we work closely together. Yesterday, though, I heard he criticized our president, Alexander Vukic, who hired women and who made both pregnant and foster women have better conditions. So he's not criticizing someone who violates the reputation of women, and he's criticizing someone who does everything for their better future. I don't understand that, but I hope she realizes she's wrong, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47206	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. Right on the line, Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47207	My colleague Karadzic, if I were to begin to explain to you what you do not understand, I am afraid that we would spend more time here than this session allows and that this debate would last much longer than 10 hours, as far as we can in the Rules of Procedure. You didn't follow closely. We DS MPs condemned every living experience, not just against women, every hate speech, when you protected those officials of the National Assembly who directly violated the law and propagated hate speech when you were silent. Every time we spoke, there was no hate speech with us, but there was no hate. That's why we have to say we won't give up the questions we asked. We ask Minister Mihajlovic, as co-ordinator of the government's body for gender equality, to transfer the issue to Aleksandar Vukic and the request to complete the sentence. Since he said today he didn't know exactly what he said, remind him, Mrs. Mihajlovic, he said – well, you hired all the women here, hoping that you would... So, please, Mrs. Mihajlovic, ask the president to finish the sentence, not because of us from the DS, but because of all the women who are working today, because of all the women who are looking for a job, who hope to get a job, because they need to know exactly what the president thinks that the employer who hired all the women is expecting these women. Since then, my colleague Vidinović and I, by the president this morning, have been called perverts who have a bad imagination by you yesterday to schizophrenics. Please save those diagnosiss for somewhere else, possibly for a cabinet session, you won't share here in the Diagnosis Assembly. And, from your favorite journalist, Dragan J. Vukevic, I really don't want to repeat what he called us. The question remains, let the president finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47208	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. (Jorge Komlenski: Replica. You don't have the right to a replica. (Jorge Komlenski: How can I not, I am the head of the parliamentary group? ) There is no mention of a parliamentary group of Socialist Movements, the United Peasant Party, the People's Peasants' Party. Ana Karadzic has the right to a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47209	I thank the chairman. I understand that Mrs. Jerkov is trying to twist my words, and I'm still not going to give up my question, which is why she doesn't get in the way, as a woman, with such scandalous statements, and she belongs to this Alliance for Serbia that only insults women, who says they should be raped, who talks that they should be beaten, etc.? She wonders why President Vukic employs women? Well, I guess it makes sense that she hires women and hires everyone who's lost their jobs while they're doing their robbery privatisations. I'd just like to say that I understand her nervousness, because she saw her colleague Balsa Bozovic enjoying DS, going to Maldives, etc., and she arrived at the DS right at the moment when they were no longer in power, when she would never be again. Thank you. I guess it's logical that he hires women and hires all those who have lost their jobs, while they've been engaged in their robbery privatisations. I'd just like to make sure I understand her anxiety, because she saw her colleague Balsa Bozovic enjoy DS, go to Maldives, etc., and she arrived at the DS right at the moment when they were no longer in power and when she would never be again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47210	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. Right on the line, Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47211	I can't get into this controversy with my colleague. I repeat my question to President Vukic and Mrs Mihajlovic, who lies with her shoulders, does not know what is controversial about the fact that the President of the Republic tells the director of the factory: "You hired all women, so you are happy, you think you will... Eee... “ Mrs. Mihajlović, if you, as co-ordinator of the government body for gender equality, see nothing controversial in that sentence, if you think that women working in Serbia today should not know what the president thinks the employer expects of these women, if he hired all women, then I really don’t know what you are doing in that place. I'm surprised at your behavior like this. I really expected more from you. So far, and when it comes to attacks on me personally and on other colleagues, you have reacted. I'm sorry if someone scared you, if someone answered you from reacting, if he led you to go along with them, instead of looking for an answer on behalf of all those women who are working today, that you instead join the insults at the expense of your colleague Maja Vidinović and me, but please stop doing it, not for the sake of the two of us, not for the DS MPs, but for women in Serbia who need to know what the president thinks if he hired all the women. Don't let it go like this, you've never done it before. Don't get off your shoulders. I don't know what this is saying. President Wolfie might say you're hoping for something, I don't know. So, please, get involved in this debate, ask us to hear the answer that the president meant and don't engage in what's going on, and that's a hack against us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47212	Thank you. I guess we all understood, except for you and Maja Vidinović. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47213	Mrs. Jerkov, I'm very sorry I haven't seen you all these days in Parliament in this room, but it's already the custom of your parliamentary group. In connection with the insult of women and the statement by the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, let's be absolutely clear. So, one, all of what you're doing yesterday and today, you're insulting women, because it's you who are thinking that President Alexander Vukic meant something bad and ugly, because that's what you've been up to all along. Therefore, you insult women with what you say, just you. I'm sorry, I thought you'd understand that, so, from yesterday's conversations, from today's messages. Here, let me tell you, yes, and as I advocate women's rights and I'm very glad that women between 40 and 50 get jobs, because that is, and you know it very well, a very difficult period, that is, a very difficult age in which women should be employed. I also don't understand one more thing. Why are you dealing with and insinuating what Alexander Vukic didn't say, or are you thinking on his behalf and explaining that he meant everything your friends, colleagues wrote on Twitter? I don't even want to say it, because I'm sure he didn't mean it. But you think, unfortunately, you think. You directly insult women with your statements, and it's very sad that the woman commented on it in that way, not only you, but also that tweet I read, so, which we had a chance to hear, I think one of the sisters is Kovac, so I don't want to say it, because it's sad that women react so much, rather than being happy and satisfied. You may like Alexander Vukic or not like him, but let's be happy and happy, women are busy, and they're not humiliated, not a single moment. But they were humiliated by your statement, because you all the time through your statement say that President Alexander Vukic meant something wrong. So, you insult women you. So let's think about what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47214	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I'm finishing this debate that is absolutely not the topic of the agenda and I'm not going to allow this guillotine here by Alexander Vukic and this debate. Let's move on with the amendments. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47215	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the Serbian Government with his associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, my amendment to Article 2. The draft law on construction products refers to improving economic exchange. Economic exchange and how important it is from the point of view of exports because exports directly affect the economic development of the Republic of Serbia and the growth of gross domestic product. What I particularly want to point out, unlike those who robbed the Republic of Serbia, who closed all factories and placed locks on all factories in the Republic of Serbia by 2012, which fired 400,000 workers, who left many single mothers without a job and without being able to give existence to their children, thanks to the arrival of SNS, the number of factories built in Serbia exceeded 100 and the number of employees, thanks to the responsible SNS authority, thanks to Alexander Vukic, is more than 170,000. Unlike those who ruled until 2012, and created difficulties for citizens and complicated life by setting up administrative barriers, this law through the regulatory arrangement of electronic contact points for construction products in the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and how it contributes to both citizens and businesses obtaining timely and adequate information that is necessary in relation to construction products, which directly affects the improvement of the market and thus economic exchange. In the end, I will finish with one sentence, those who have no political idea, those who call for rape, those who commit physical violence here in the House of the National Assembly, those who call for hanging, those in the human and moral sense are the bottom.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47216	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. The word has Maya Vidinović, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. According to the amendment, of course, what most colleagues would say, with a special reference to the next thing. We were just moments ago from the Vice-President of the Government of Ms. Mihajlović, who, apart from the fact that he is leading the important ministries, is indeed, and at the head of the co-ordination body for women's equality, heard that she does not understand what is offensive, I would not say offensive, but totally inadmissible, completely discriminatory, completely offensive, if you do not understand it and if the arguments of colleague Jerkov are not enough for you, we will continue. You know what, when we talk about these laws that are currently on the agenda, there are a large number of women working in the construction industry. They are engineers, they are inspectors, they are projectors, who have been mocked by the president of the Republic of Serbia who is visiting the beginning of the construction of the factory at the Kings and who tells the investor, or the director of the future factory: “Mr. Turks, you have been brought here to take special care of our women.” I ask you, “You have been brought here, ” listen carefully,“ to take special care of our women. ” I don't know what you don't understand. There's nothing to be brought in to take care of women... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47218	I'm asking you the same thing. (Maya Vidinovic: Please allow me to explain.) I just said there's really no point in letting the debate go this way. (Maya Vidinovic: Please can I finish? You're always really decent, correct, and you're discussing very... (Maya Vidinovic: I'm absolutely right.) Well, you're not. It really doesn't make sense. It's not about today's agenda or the President of the Republic, find whatever factory you want, probably open today. (Maya Vidinovic: Can I finish now, so I don't answer the Rules of Procedure. I can't go on because it's getting out of hand, because you've completely missed out on the subject. (Maya Vidinović: Business. Let's move on. He has the word Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47219	So, first of all, I think you're making, you're trying, you don't have any other argument for any law, nothing at all, no result, you're trying to make a case where it doesn't exist. So that's the first thing. Secondly, what's the problem with the president's statement I really don't understand. So I don't belong to someone who's really stupid, but I really don't understand. If we have to interpret three points, why can't we interpret, knowing how more organized women are, more efficient, more productive, etc. Can't we interpret it in that sense? Then you will have high productivity. Not a single moment has the president of the state insinuated, not one moment the president of the state said anything, but nothing that offends women. From the moment you started to react to that, I guess because, I don't know, you don't like Alexander Wolfe politically. (Maya Vidinović: Business. All right, so every moment that you've started, with every sentence, women are insulted, even with this gentleman's sentence, I don't know what it's called, you're brought here to take care of women the moment it opens, so it creates a space for opening a factory where women should work. I really don't see that anything the president of the state has offended one single woman, but I'm also very sorry that women react the way you react. Let's put your political background aside, at least for a moment when it comes to women and let's look really for the benefit of women. Too few women in the business, in politics, to fight. So let's try not to just think about yourself and your political party. (Maya Vidinović: Business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47220	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I ask you to allow me to continue to hold a session in accordance with the powers laid down in Article 27. I just said in the previous discussion that it really doesn't make sense and we're not gonna let this happen. You're right, you have the option, organize a round table, a session, discuss those three points. I don't mind, free country and parliament. Now don't talk about these important bill proposals to replace the thesis and to talk about things that are completely peripheral and irrelevant to this Parliament, especially for us here in the majority. (Maya Vidinović: Business. () Article 27, I am in charge of the session. Thank you for understanding. Veroljub Matić, does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47221	Thank you. I welcome Madam Minister with members of the government and dear colleagues. I have submitted to Article 2 an amendment that reads -- the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the increase of the construction operation. By raising the level of services and numerically and quality, we have an increase in building operations. It plays a significant role in business and the development of services. I'd like to say something today about rail infrastructure. A multilateral agreement between China, Serbia, Hungary means building a fast-track Belgrade-Budapest, and works will be opened on this huge project in the second half of next year on the Belgrade-Central-Stara Paz section. The reconstruction of Corridor 10 arms in Budapest implies the formation of a modern two-wheel high performance line for passengers and freight traffic and speed will be up to 200 km per hour. The Transport Institute has completed an idea project for the Belgrade-Star Paz stock, and we have 84km of tracks that will be reconstructed and 27 completely new tracks will be created. It supports speed in that direction, which will be 220km per hour, and it will be 100km on the turn. The works on this railway begin next year, Belgrade-Budapest. The already agreed shares of Belgrade-Stara Pazova, Stara Pazova-Novi Sad, begin next year, and a project solution is being developed for Novi Sad-Kelebi-Subotica. It'll be agreed next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47222	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47223	Thank you for mentioning a very, very important infrastructure project. I can freely say that it is currently the most valuable infrastructure projects in this part of Europe. So it's modernising the Belgrade-Budapest track, setting up other tracks, a fast track at 200km per hour. It is already working on two shares, which is Belgrade-Stara Pazova's first share, 34.5km, Stara Pazova-Novi Sad, where we have 40km and next year we start working on the third share and this is the share from Novi Sad to the 108km limit and that third share is the most investment-worthy part. Pretty complicated and it'll cost us about a billion dollars. We can expect in a few years a fully completed and modernised Belgrade-Budapest railway by Hungary. So, on the Hungarian side, a public invitation was called, or a tender for design and implementation, no matter where they had them, I would say, partly even lag behind. I think we're gonna end it somewhere at the same time. It's very important, we're talking about Corridor 10, we're talking about, we have one corridor that's not just for the highway, it's for the railway, it's for the freight. So we continue down from Belgrade to Nis, we do this year and next year project technical documentation from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, a contract has already been signed and it is done and I believe that in this way, in this rail transport we will really go back to where we are essentially our place. Of course, no matter what the first share is signed with the Chinese company, the second with the Russian company, the third also with China, all domestic companies and our workers work below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47224	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Vujadinovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47225	Dear fellow Members of the people, the distinguished minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, you have already said about the importance of certain things for Subotica and we feel it in the right way. My amendment itself speaks of the importance of developing a good investment climate, which will in principle lead to Serbia's development in general. We in Subotic feel, to say these positive policies from the state level, on that one of our local levels. In addition to all the things you said were working in Subotica and its surroundings, remember that this part is important to us too, a short highway that goes from New Belgrade to Požega, because that gives us a direct serious road connection from Horgos and Kelebia, to Požega, and further south. In addition to the importance of an economic, important project from some economic aspect, it is also very important from a political aspect, because this gives us a very serious link between the far north of Serbia and the far north of Republika Srpska. I think it is unnecessary to say how important it is for a Serbian Corps in the Balkans in the first place. The second thing that's progressed in Subotica over the past period, I'm using the opportunity to thank you, that's this ipislon arm around Subotica, that's a project that we've been waiting for for decades. He's somewhere in March and August of last year two shares of total were opened, it seems to me, six kilometers and we in Subotica expect you to continue at the same pace and finish this more decade's work, and I'm sure you'll have reliable partners in the Mayor of Subotica and City Administration when it comes to this matter. In the end, I will take the opportunity to thank both you personally and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President for all those infrastructure projects you have supported in Republika Srpska, especially in its far south.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47226	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The word has Professor Zorana Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47227	Just the additional information, for the lyphilon arm, you're right, it's kind of down and standing, we've finished two shares, next year by June, the ypsilon arm will be completely finished and somehow we'll leave it behind, then beyond ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47228	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Alexandra Mike, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47229	I would like to thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable Vice-President of the Government, with his associates. In front of us today, the law on construction products, a law that, after many years, uniquely regulates this area, has so far regulated the Law on Planning and Construction and other laws, as well as technical regulations, and is necessary for all manufacturers of construction material in Serbia, that in a unique way we have arranged this area. It is necessary to edit this area in a unique way, in order to comply with those countries in the environment, because most of our construction producers, in the countries surrounding these materials, and BiH, Macedonia and Montenegro, have passed a single law before us. The organisation of this area will also be significant for the crep factory and ceramic tiles "Toza Markovic" which is from Kikinda, above all because this factory, two-thirds of the produced material, exports to the countries in the environment, which have brought these regulations, but also exports to EU countries, which directly apply the EU regulation, with which these regulations will be harmonised. Unfortunately, "Toza Markovic" currently exports only crep, not other products, because for years it has been struggling to get out of bankruptcy, out of the problems and problems introduced in 2000, when all the companies, including Toza Markovic, who worked perfectly in Kikinda, have been destroyed by bad privatisations, are now slowly standing on his feet, returning to production, from ceramic tiles, which will also be exported to the countries of the region and to the EU countries and these clear and precise regulations will certainly help keep the market "Toze Markovic" but spread to other EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47230	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mother. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47231	I would like to thank the chairman, a respected minister, with his associates, respected fellow MPs. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on construction products, which reads: - the provisions of this law, encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving economic resources. The proposal for a law on construction products is regulated by the construction product market, it is necessary to diversify and cover the scope of this bill, i.e. to regulate a wide range of construction products, as many as 35 types. All these construction products will be subject to the highest standards, which apply in the EU Member States. This is how domestic legislation is harmonised with the EU, which is one of the pre-accession obligations, towards EU membership, which we as a candidate country should meet. On the other hand, this ensures the highest quality of construction products, which ensures long-term production effects. A number of problems have occurred in practice so far, valid standards and if adopted are not implemented without this law, there has also been a problem with unequal performance of construction products. The draft law on construction products removes these problems, introduces a common technical language and provides for a rule of standard that will be respected and applied. Without a doubt, all of this will be a positive incentive to further develop construction in the Republic of Serbia, which will continue to develop rapidly in line with the highest standards, and the best liquids of this sector. With all this in mind, the proposal for a law on construction products will have an unsuspecting effect on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47232	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, esteemed Mrs Mihajlovic, the way for Serbia to join the EU implies, in addition to many other provisions, preparation for opportunities and demands of a competitive common market. This requires great commitment to the quality of all our products and services, including construction products, and that is why this law is passed. A particular reason why this proposal for a law on construction products in the voting day, in general, is that it provides additional incentives in the development of construction, but also allows building facilities to be safer and more environmentally acceptable, safeguarding the life and health of people throughout the life cycle of construction facilities. Each construction product built in Serbia will have to have a clear declaration and a sign that it is manufactured in accordance with International and Domestic Standards and can only be installed and placed on the construction material market. The new law, apart from raising standards in construction, will make domestic producers more competitive on the European market, as the same standards will apply in Serbia, as well as in EU member states. This means that in the future, we will be able to count on a significant foreign exchange inflow, which will bring our building operation, which has been strengthened today, can fully participate equally in a very demanding European market. The economic reforms that the governments of the Republic of Serbia led with Mr. Aleksandra Vukic, since 2012, have led our country into a series of developed and desirable partners in the world, which gives us the right to see success in our country's further progress. And we do not only see ourselves from SNS, a more successful, more modern and richer Serbia, as citizens see above all, which clearly shows in the numerous elections, held from 2012 to today, which they do because the results are absolutely visible, measurable and comparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47234	The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to article 2. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47235	I thank the chairman. A respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the organisation of the construction product market provides protection for the safety, life and health of people, environmental protection, consumer protection, property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as protection of all investors. Construction of the Preljina – Požega highway, in the length of 31 kilometers, whose start was planned for the spring of next year, as well as the completion of the section from Obrenovac to Preljina at the end of this year, is a clear indicator of the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards modernisation and the accelerated development of our country. Building this traffic station will create a better road connection between Serbia and Montenegro and the port of Bar, as the ultimate destination, which will allow even greater traffic of goods and passengers. There will be an increase in construction-related employment, as well as the involvement of domestic enterprises and locals. Building the Belgrade highway -- the South Adriatic, not only contributes to the economic development of society, but also stops negative demographic trends. Better integration of undeveloped and devastated areas with developed parts of Serbia, withholds travel times, less travel costs and greater traffic security, will allow better living conditions for the local population, business development and a higher standard of living. Our country's development primarily relies on investment in infrastructure, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that it handles these very principles, taking into account even regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47236	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47237	Ladies and gentlemen, respected Deputy Prime Minister, it is impossible to separate the construction sector from another member of the law on construction products from the concept of investment, and there is hardly any human activity, which is more directly and directly linked to investment. When you build, invest, actually spend both human and material resources, practically building, these are investments. Whether it comes from state spending or personal consumption, they are proof that you accumulated enough capital to invest. The government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous 3 years, by bringing fiscal policy together, has put the state of Serbia in a position to invest and our personal budgets are such that we can invest. If 23% of gross domestic product goes to investment, then it says that the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing well enough and that Serbia and Serbia's economy have a future. When you look at the amount of a set of financial resources spent in the construction sector in the first quarter of 2017 of 33,000 billion, in the last quarter 59,000 billion billion, the growth of 180%, it clearly says that Serbia is moving forward. Of course, in addition to domestic investment, the important factor is foreign investment. We are on the global market, and when you see 2.6 billion coming from foreign investments, that 6.6% of practically gross domestic products come in the form of investments, then that's what makes us very proud of this government and the president of the Republic of Serbia. These foreign investments grow by 0.4% this year and all this suggests that the construction sector, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republika Srpska Assembly, is leading Serbia on the right track.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47238	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47239	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 2. The bill aims to indicate the importance of capital projects and investments in the economy of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party's policy is to expand existing production and service capacities, build new factories and create new factories, as well as create new jobs. Speaking of jobs, I note that according to the 2012 National Employment Service, 736,802 were unemployed. According to the National Employment Service, which was published yesterday, there are currently 553 thousand unemployed. So we were able to employ over 183,000 of our citizens in six years. (Radoslav Milojic: Bravo. Please don't throw away your colleagues from the other side of the room. I know they don't like reality, but that's how it is. That's official data from the National Employment Service. (Radoslav Milojic: Martinović) You hired him to make face creams. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47240	My colleague Milojić, allow her colleague to finish. (Radoslav Milojic): I apologize, but I read where Martinovic works. () You have not learned to read so much that you have to read aloud. (Radoslav Milojic): This whole Serbia needs to know. ( b) Fellow Members, ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47241	Since you are a People's MP, I first recommend that you read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47242	Fellow Charapic, proceed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47243	So, we're the first in Europe for the inflow of foreign direct investment, the third in the growth of gross domestic product. When it comes to gross domestic product, I must point out that the largest share of gross domestic product growth has exactly the construction sector, 28.2% in the first quarter of 2018 and real growth achieved gross add value to construction compared to the same quarter last year, and 22.9% in the second quarter. Today you are also witnessing accelerated construction, both highways and when it comes to Corridor 10, Krak B and V, and Corridor 11, the construction of highway E 763 that will connect Belgrade with the southern Adriatic. We are also witnessing the construction of apartments for security forces, first in Vranj and then in other cities in Serbia, as well as the realization of the project "Belgrade on Water". The most important thing is that our domestic construction companies are in charge of carrying out the work and the facilities we are building are also equipped with our domestic products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47244	Thank you. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lakatoš, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47245	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, the Law on Construction Products will regulate the quality of construction products and regulate the market for construction products, which will also affect the quality of materials used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other buildings. It will also make domestic producers more competitive on the European market, as the same standards will be applied in Serbia as in EU member states. Construction products are very specific, and their properties in full application are visible only when they are installed into buildings. Construction products must be safe and that, when installed, they serve to protect people's lives and health, as well as to increase the quality of building facilities. Therefore, these products must be subject to specific rules. In a system where it is built quickly, unqualityly and without control, damage is done to material producers, especially end-users, customers. Using and installing untested materials, to save, is extremely bad, and the consequences are seen when unforeseen situations happen, such as, for example, elemental disasters. By standardizing our products, our manufacturers will be easier to reach foreign markets. A developed and strong economy is of great importance to Serbia and, of course, the development of the economy affects Serbia's overall development, and by adopting this law, it ensures that construction becomes ready to participate fully in the market and beyond the borders of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47246	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubisa Stojmirovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mirko Krlić submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Kostic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47247	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, MPs, certainly that the implementation of a project to build subsidized apartments for members of the Security Service will affect GDP growth, increase employment, employ the domestic construction industry, since the law has defined that only domestic companies can deal with this job. In the first phase, 8,086 apartments will be built in seven cities across our Serbia – Nis, Vranj, Kragujevac, Kralje, Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica and Belgrade. The first apartments will first be built in Vranje and Nis, and then in other cities. This is only a third of the necessary apartments, since the number of security officers from 23,423 have applied for the project, although 10,000 apartments are already planned in the second phase. The value per square metre will range from 300 to 350 euros in cities outside Belgrade and will also take care of the location of these built apartments. However, we could not talk about all this today that today's budget surplus in Serbia is not 36.8 billion dinars, which is only proof that this government has kept account and domestically spent citizens' money, not as previous government, only for its own purposes. The number of more than 23 thousand security officers suggests that no one has taken care of them until now, or that the arrival of the SNS has made us realize that the importance of these officials is very important for Serbia's security.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47248	Thank you, colleague. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47249	Thank you for mentioning this important project, just as important as Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 and every other highway we'll start working on. This is a huge project. It'll take a few years. The first apartments will be in Nis and Vranj. So, in about a month, a complete procedure will be completed and performers will be elected and we will start building apartments in Nis and Vranj. There will be 8,086 apartments in the first phase of seven cities in Serbia, worth about 260m euros. What is also important, several more cities will begin preparing documentation and preparing local self-government itself in order to find the right locations, to see how much the municipal infrastructure will cost. These cities are Zaječar, Zrenjanin, Kruševac, Leskovac, Smederevo, Sombor and Cačak. I think that in the next period, we will manage to address a large number of security officers the housing issue they have been waiting for for decades, some of them, and on the other hand, how it will affect domestic construction operations, as well as manufacturers, domestic construction producers, because everything that is being built and built on will be domestic Serbian production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47250	Thank you. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47251	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with co-workers, respected fellow MPs, meeting the obligations of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Serbia with EU regulations and raising the quality of building materials with more favourable prices for investors that allow for better competition of products on the European market will apply equal standards in the EU and in the Republic of Serbia. This is only done because of our investors and producers to give them greater opportunities in foreign markets. The country's plan, for example, is to use about 43.9 billion dinars to build highways, bridges, railways in 2018, while the sum will be around 133.7 billion by the end of 2020. The most convincing money this year will be invested in the construction of the highway from Obrenovac to LJiga, about 9.8 billion, then in building railway infrastructure and getting a vehicle of about 7.9 billion, as well as the Surcin-Obrenovac 5.8 billion dinar highway. I would be very happy if there was also a Shinobus for the Mladenovac-Belgrade route to make it easier for the citizens to travel. We've already talked about this before with the minister, because it is estimated that around 18,000 of my fellow citizens travel daily to Belgrade students, employees. It is also important to note that the time of the trip BG by train must not be longer than the bus trip. Given that the good part of the railroad is renovated, I think there are conditions for it and it only needs to be reduced to the number of cells in order to reduce travel time. Maybe in the future build another track to avoid waiting for trains to cross. Thank you very much. I have to thank you for the complete reconstruction of the train station in Mladenovac from foundation to roof, which is from mockery... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47252	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47253	Only this year, "The Railways of Serbia" and the Ministry of Transport are reconstructing 17 cell buildings. One of these was this one, but, in connection with the Mladenovac-Belgrade connection, we talked, held meetings, so both with the town of Belgrade and with "Serbia", i.e. with Beovoza, and that will certainly be, we think that the order of driving is new when it is made, we will have a direct connection. That's really important because of everything you said before.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47254	Thank you. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Members of the Ognjanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47255	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with associates, Serbia has raised its reputation in the world, and we can proudly say that we have stabilised finance, that we are restoring the economy and that we are the leader in the region by attracting investment. Economic growth and the environment and everything that we are working on enables us to have construction sites throughout Serbia, so standardisation of construction materials will further affect improvement and well-being. In Serbia, what has been waiting for years for reconstruction is renewed. The fact is that by 2012, the government had only dealt with personal interests by planning how to hide money most easily and leaving behind destroyed and abandoned infrastructure, failed factories and huge unemployment. The money's gone, the rest are loans and huge debts. These people have left Serbia at the brink of financial collapse and today show they have no policy and programme, but only they know they are threatening and persecuting. With SNS coming to power, investments were recorded in every municipality and city in Serbia. We're working on rebuilding hospitals, schools, kindergartens. We build and build a network of highways, rebuild roads and railroads. Serbia is building, growing and connecting. We connect rural areas and we will only build new roads along which new infrastructures will come, which contribute most to the development of the economy. That is why I have proposed an amendment that further defines Article 2. A proposed law with special reference to the strengthening of natural resources. In the end, I'd like to ask the minister a question. Since I'm coming from Grocka, I'm interested in how far it's reached with a tour plan around Belgrade, since the road-rail bridge of Vinca-Pancevo was also part of the plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47256	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47257	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with co-workers, in line with the Constitution in the Republic of Serbia, everyone is obliged to protect and improve the environment. In order to be curt and competitive on the market, it is necessary to standardise our construction products, because we will have a better chance of doing so. I am sure that by accepting this law, we will really be competitors and competitors and here we are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The basic requirements that the facility should meet during the economically acceptable century in use are mechanical resistance and stability, fire safety, hygiene, health and environment, safety and accessibility in use, noise protection, energy savings and the retention of heat and sustainable use of natural resources. In order for the market to function smoothly, it is necessary to ensure that technical regulations are made available in order to ensure that economic operators, especially small and medium-sized enterprises that I spoke of yesterday, have reliable and accurate information on the provisions and regulations in force in the Republic of Serbia. The full responsibility for placing the product on the market is borne solely by the manufacturer of the construction product, which is good. The establishment of a national infrastructure system and the quality of construction products represents, above all, support for economic development in general. It is an indicator of the level of consumer protection, a prerequisite for access to international markets. The main indicator is the placing of safe construction products, etc. Construction is conditioned by environmental protection and represents an important factor in sustainable development and construction is linked to other works, with engineering, electrical engineering, traffic, etc. Today, there are 28 active sites in Serbia. In Belgrade alone, 10,000 active construction sites. It is mainly built on domestic materials, and the standardisation of construction products is done in order to place domestic construction products on the European market. In voting day, we will naturally accept all your laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47258	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47259	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I'm glad you're still in this number today, there are more of you and your associates than any opposition MP in this room. The application of this law and amendment, if adopted, will speed up the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. The former regime did not take care of construction products, but destroyed companies from this activity by savage robbery privatisation. It is enough to mention the three cement factories sold for the bagatella, and it is said that former DOS ministers Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Vlahovic and Mirko Cvetkovic have become rich in these sales and not only them. You remember, gentlemen, five former ministers, from Dulic, via Sasa Dragin, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Jasna Matic, to Mr Bubal, were arrested. According to an assessment by the investigative authorities, in one way or another, the former regime has pangered the country for about 100 billion euros, and starting from the banal theft of state property such as forests, to the intentional destruction of factories and banks and the sale of inexplicable property. Because of the small interest group's decision, gathered around the former DOS government and former resolution minister Dragoslav Šumarac, Serbia suddenly ran out of major state-owned construction companies under the pretext that they are inert and have no trade capital. As DOS conducted and destroyed social construction companies, the former party official, former regime official Dragan Kopcalic, who illegally bought the construction company "Builder of Construction". Here they are again, gathered around "the Alliance for the Second Robbery of Serbia" and forgot about the first time they were in DOS, but the people did not forget and will never forgive them, so he sent them into the political past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47260	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47261	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mrs Mihajlovic, respected guests from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, the city of Nis is not only a crossroads of roads, but is also an important railway hub on the way to Sofia, or Athens. Moving the railway line from the centre of the town of Nis, a railway bypass project around Nis, is part of a larger project to reconstruct a 300m-euro Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line. Let me remind you of the odyssey of this problem. It's been said for years that the railroad will be moved and all the authorities have talked about it. The first contact signed was the December 2012 railway transfer protocol between EU, Mr Mr Mrkonjic and Mayor Nis Perisic. The analysis of this project has shown justification from the economic aspect, because 11 million a year are losses, and the profit is only 1.5 million, from the environmental aspect and the loss of life, which is the most significant. The project envisioned a double track, for passenger traffic, for freight and one leg for Zaječar. Afterwards, however, former railway director Dragoljub Simonovic said that the railway had given up and that the railway should only be electrified, which would in fact be the solution for the track. The deputy mayor of LJubomir Slavkovic reacts, and in 2015, the Republic spatial planning agency banned the railway from electrifying. Finally, in 2016, the Czech firm "Sudo Praha" with EU money completed a bypass project. A rail bypass around Nis will cost only 80,000 euros in length. Since I don't have time, we just have to say that in Nis there was a rally of this coalition cabbage whose motto was...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47262	Thank you, colleague Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47263	Just a minute. "Give your voice, for our censor's salvation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47264	The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47265	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with co-workers, the proposed amendment aims to highlight the improvement of economic exchange, as we know, Serbia's path to EU accession implies, in addition to many other reform procedures, preparation for opportunities and demands of a competitive common market. This requires great commitment to the quality of products and services. I would take advantage of the opportunity, given that we all have little time, to congratulate the Free Zone of Piroth for declaring Europe's best free zone, which is an indicator and confirmation that Serbia has become an attractive investment destination. From 2012 to 2017, close to 390m euros were invested in the Free area of Pirot, and the number of production investors increased by only one year, 2016 and 2017 only by 22%. A good connection between the Free Zone Pirot and Pan-European Corridor 10 that connects Belgrade with Sofia, Turkey, Italy and Greece. I hope, Mrs Mihajlovic, that the East Leg of Corridor 10 will be finished in your words by the end of the year, which will only speed up further investment and further development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47266	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47267	I thank you, Chairman Arsic. Honorable ministers with associates, respected MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the construction industry is certainly one of the important factors in the development of the economic climate in the city. The town of Leskovac is known for bringing new investors, primarily foreign investors. Foreign companies employ over 3,500 Leskovchans and are increasingly interested in our city. This contributed to the purchase of the assets of former "South Express" and "Synthetics", for which the city was allocated 40m and 30m dinars, respectively. The government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out 185m dinars for the adaptation of the Synthetics building. A Turkish company, Ginsi, will move there very soon, which will employ another 300 workers. As for "South Express", a good part of the company's assets is being used by Jura, and we are currently in negotiations to open our fourth factory on this remainder. In addition to "Jinsy" and "Jure", Leskovec, they successfully operate: "VNB Knitting", "Tera Steel", "Auto-stop", "Falke", "Leskobeks" and many other companies. By the end of the year, the launch of the "Aptiv Packard" plant in the green zone is expected, which is exactly what we have launched after many years and where we expect many more investors to arrive. The British investor will employ about 300 workers by the end of the year, and the total number of jobs that will open in the next two years is close to 3,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47268	By amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47269	Thank you. I think it is very important for this amendment to determine the exact names of certain areas, as it happens in practice a lot of strange things. For example, some engineers may not only be in Serbia's Engineering Chamber, they may also be non-license engineers, they work as cosmetic technicians in some schools, and they sit down for example. here in Parliament. Orlic, for example, is one of them. Then it is very important that we establish the exact names of certain areas, so that those who have been educated for a particular area as engineers can apply for a specific job in their profession, not that individuals who have completed a particular university become engineers, may not, perhaps, have a license, again, it is less important, on the other hand to be hired as cosmetic technicians at the High School of Medicine in Ćprija, against the law, according to counterpart Zorana Mihajlovic, minister of Education, the law, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and also, the president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Martinovic. So, the two of them, one lawyer, another engineer, are working at the High School of Medicine, included in the curriculum for next year, while in the last year and a half eight women have been out of work at the same school. And then we talk about taking care of women, then we talk about how and how power, function, member of the SNS presidency is abused, etc. It's not honorable and it's against the law, and that's what your ministry says, not me. So the law says it, not me. And I'm telling you, it's filth. Now, that is why it is very important, Mr Martinovic and Orlic, to explain to the citizens, in addition to the salary you receive in parliament and who knows where else, you have not received and have not reported what the Anti-Corruption Agency said, all the wages you receive, and you have allowed yourself to teach from this Parliament in Ćupria at the High School of Medicine. Shame on you! One of the women is after maternity leave, a job contract was immediately terminated. And instead of those eight women, you got a job as senior SNS officials. You've never been to Turkey, you've never been there. And that's what's been published and the citizens of Serbia need to know. What's very important is that you have to tell an educational inspection how you, as a doctor of legal science, teach... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47270	My colleague Bozovic, I understand that you are using various means for your political struggle, but an unverified newspaper article, which has not even been printed... (Balša Bozovic: Educational inspection. ) Have you seen the record of the educational inspection? I see it says BIRN, not an educational inspection. That's what you mixed up. (Balsa Bozovic: the Republic of Serbia, an educational inspection. Alexander Martinovic: What does it say? ) (Balsa Bozovic: To teach cosmetics at the Higher Medical School. ) Right to replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47271	So it's really degutant that I, I don't know what to tell you, this is such a bunch of nonsense, lies and lies that I really don't have words. I should be ashamed to work. That's what Balsa Bozovic said. He says, "How can you not be ashamed that you are a doctor of legal science?" I'm working, I don't get paid in the National Assembly unlike you who haven't done anything in your life, 'cause Dad got you everything. I've been an MP in the National Assembly since 2007, and I've never been paid in the National Assembly. I can live without politics, I can live without being a MP, and you can't live without your dad. That's the big difference between you and me. I finished my college the same way my esteemed colleague Orlic, studying, and my dad didn't finish it, was not finished by Vesna Rakić Vednelic, so I didn't sign up for a bit on private, so a little on state, etc. After all, I brought here the index of the president of my party and read the reviews that the president of my party received as a student at the University of Belgrade Law School. I don't know who the president of your party is now. I don't know what you belong to, what it's called, but please bring in the index of the president of your party or your boss's index in the Bosko Obradovic Assembly or Dragan Gilas' index or your index, so we'll see who was a better student and who came up with the job. Telling someone in the congregation that he should be ashamed of himself because he's working, I think you really have a serious problem. I am a doctor, but for that kind of problem, I'm not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47272	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. Just a minute. I ask the service to take the card of MP Maja Vidinović and bring it to the secretary, or deputy secretary, as phantom MPs report here. You're too late, colleague Jerkov. There'll be a card here when he gets back to the O.R. (Alexandra Jerkov: I will not bring you a safe card. I didn't ask you to, and you had no right to take it out at the moment.. Let me just say for information. Article 128. – if the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves it in the MP's unit, that is, his identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately forward that card to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. The card will be returned to the People's MP upon entering the O.R. This isn't the problem. The problem here is that someone misused the card of MP Maja Vidinovic and asked for a word. (Alexandra Jerkov, throws.) You are? Do you know of the next provision of the Rules of Procedure? National MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves before entering the O.R. by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to log out when leaving the O.R. For a MP who uses the identification card of another MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the President of the National Assembly shall declare the distance from the session, and the vote in which the abuse is used will be annulled and immediately access the identification and re-voting. I believe there was no intention, but take care. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I appreciate your tolerance, but you certainly had to give Balshi Bozovic some measure provided for in Article 109 because he rudely violated the dignity of the National Assembly, he tried to insult, calling for women's questions, although his party in coalition with these Latvians who repeatedly physically rebelled against women. Just to remind myself that it happened in the National Assembly, that the president of the National Assembly was attacked, with these Latvians getting minor physical injuries in the form of bruises. They also attacked in the presence of Aleksandra Jerkov in RIK, 2016, a member of RIK, and also attacked journalist Mrs. Zelec outside the building of Pinka. When he advocates women's rights, and he's in coalition with these two, the Ljotics, then it's, one, hypocritical, two, it's an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly. In doing so, he tried to insult Mr. Orlic and Mr. Martinovic and I advise them not to worry about it, because not everyone can insult you, not everyone is worthy of his attention. I suggest colleagues to Balshi Bozovic to address what Martinovic told him, to a doctor who is an expert in this. He can be helped, but he has to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47274	Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word is Jelena Žarić Kovačević, an injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47275	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106. – The speaker can talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. At this point, the member I'm referring to seems to me to be a little less important than what you've allowed. You, Mr. Arsic, have allowed the remains of October 5th who set this assembly on fire for SNS MPs here to come to our senses and tell us whether we are working or not, how we should work, and this is about a doctor of legal science. I think that's inadmissible. I won't even talk about the dignity of the National Assembly. So, we've been here listening to what's honorable, what's illegal. If we consider where Balsa Bozovic was headed and who she is now in the alliance with for Serbia, then how can we talk about honor and law and respect for someone's integrity? Please don't let it happen anymore, because then this session doesn't make any sense if you allow your colleague Martinovic to be insulted in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47276	My colleague Kovacevic, I didn't allow him to insult himself, he tried, but he didn't get as much as he wanted. The word is Olivera Pesic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47277	I thank the chairman. I'm referring to article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly and I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly was severely violated when our colleagues from the yellow company accused us SNS MPs of indignity. Let's see who's accusing us of being impolite? The ones from the rape alliance, the ones from the hanging alliance, maybe. They're full of mouths in lack of arguments to talk about the subject of the law today, full of their mouths about women's rights. Let's ask colleagues from the parliamentary group from the yellow company -- who are those laws as MPs, who sat here in the National Assembly in several terms, proposed to improve women's rights? What laws did they propose to protect pregnant women, to protect maternity rights, and today and all these days back, we have some ex-post mind. A colleague in the past week, when I didn't get a chance to report for the replica, said they advocate birth rights and pregnant women. Do you colleagues of Jerkov know that in Leskovec in 2012, while your yellow coalition was in power, you passed the Single Child Assistance Act and that you did not pay the money to those families for the next two years? So what you're saying today in the absence of arguments to speak on the subject of law is pure demagogy and ex-post mind without foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47278	The word is Balša Bozovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47279	Mr. Arsic, Mr. Orlic, gentlemen of honor, I didn't say anything on my own. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the report on regular inspection, says that you urgently need to break the illegal contracts you acquired through SNS at the High School of Medicine in Ćupria. Professional pharmacist, professional nurse, midwife, these are areas where you two teach as senior SNS officials. Meanwhile, eight women were out of work. One was awarded a termination of the contract at the end of the maternity leave. There's no shame in working, Mr. Martinovic. It's a shame to be employed and illegally working. It's a shame. It's not a shame to earn your salary, but it's a shame while there's a ban on public sector employment that you have five salaries. It's a shame. And what's left of this is how and in what way you haven't been able to explain that you're avoiding reporting your assets and your receipts, which is what the Anti-Corruption Agency is saying. How much do you have to pay? How many jobs do you do besides being a MP in this congregation? And, it's not true, if you're not getting paid, you're taking a shower and you know it very well. And what's also important for the citizens to know, this is against the law, this is a disgrace and this is a disgrace. And that's not what I'm saying, again I'm telling you, that's what your ministry's inspection, the Ministry of Education in the SNS government says. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47280	Time's up. (Balsa Bozovic: Don't hide behind Alexander Vukic now. It's been two minutes and a little more. Now let me see... (Alexander Martinovic: You read that on BIRN's website. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47281	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 106 has been injured, so the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. We have a situation here that Balsa Bozovic talks completely unrelated, and that looks like a paratrooper-diversant action that can be called pit bulls, because she catches someone, he won't let go. The other day it was me, now Mr. Martinovic, after a certain period, will be someone third. This is about a deliberate action that we are not working, that we are wasting time, that the laws are passed as late as possible, because apparently our government, the Ministry with the help of us, the MPs who are voting these laws, is just making progress. This is about a diversional action that's just pulling back, talking about some stupid, some completely non-law-related topics, or what we're talking about here. That's why we can call this one a Band-Aid, too, so when it's stuck, it's not played. So, I'm asking you to keep an eye on the subject in the future, not on everything and everything. We'll see who's next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47282	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I'm trying to get Mr. Bozovic to discuss the subject, and he just had a right to a replica, so he could talk about whatever he wanted to talk about. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since he obviously wants me to plead to the man who showed up already, that's what I said today, but he refused to accept, refused to listen. He proved that he was only capable of lying meaninglessly. I always want to help, and I want to explain to him what he doesn't understand. He lies senseless, for example, when he says that I am illegally engaged or MP Martinovic, or that we were illegally engaged. It doesn't say anything in those papers he's waving at. No, it doesn't say that. Not for one second have any of us been illegally engaged. We... (Alexandra Jerkov: The inspection is lying? )......................................................................................................... Take it easy, don't be hysterical, take it easy. So, take it easy, take it easy, it'll be okay. So teaching isn't a sin. To teach by law is no sin. Having a contract formed by law is not a sin either. And that's something illegal you only read in one place. And, of course, then Balsa Bozovic took and added those high mental conclusions that, I don't know, I've never been to that school, what the hell. You only read that in one place, and I'll tell you where. You read that on the BIRN website. Now, as much as you, as humans, are inclined to the truth, as you as men are to the truth, are known, so is this source of yours. To remind you, the BIRN site has been caught in a lie many times. For example, when they were generating an affair, and they were caught lying about pumping in West Tamnava. The World Bank has proven to be lying. They lied when they published reports "ER Serbia". Turns out some guy who feels himself for some big opposition politician, gave them all the wrong information. They lied, as it were, that it was the government's session where someone was replaced, and it turned out there wasn't even a cabinet session that day. A small million times they've been caught. And then they showed their political attitudes that they love, which they don't love, when they compared Serbia with fascists. That's what they did, remember? When they compared Alexander Vukic to Gihadin John, that executioner of the Islamic State. They're the same people. Here, I see today, these same people support so-called. Kosovo in Interpol.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47284	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47285	I'm done. So, if these are the people who show who they belong to, that they are not foreign to lying, even though they've been caught a small million times, and that, of course, they're very welcome to be paid well from abroad, I think the quality of their claims, and also your words, is quite clear. He's clear to me, is he clear to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47286	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47287	Thank you, Chairman. Article 108(1) As we can see from session to session, day to day, from month to month, even we here can see one situation that has already become so common that part of the opposition across from me has no intention of talking about the bill's proposals at all. They obviously have no intention of even reading the bill. Why? Because they don't care. They're interested in politics. They're interested in collecting cheap political points for their big bosses who send them here and then we have to listen to what they're prepared to tell them here. I have a suggestion. I suggest that every time someone answers from this side and on the other hand that every time they talk about who did what, we will bring out here what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, and they will bring out what they have done in their time. I've been here for two years in Parliament, and in two years, I've never heard from across the street – we've done it and we've done it. There are only criticisms from across the street that have no arguments and only lies are heard and attacks on SNS and Alexander Vukic, who are working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47288	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47289	I thank the chairman. I have just pointed out a violation of the 107th National Assembly's dignity, and now I am calling for a member of 109th and a member of 107th. I just asked you to take care of the course of the session, and after a minute, one of you again allowed Balshi Bozovic to call us SNS MPs and the head of the parliamentary group's deputy chiefs again. Please stop the speaker in the future when he uses such abusive expressions. Of course, in the absence of arguments, on the subject of the law, because colleagues Zaric, colleagues from the opposition, cannot make arguments and make comparisons to what they did in the previous years, because what did they do? They didn't do anything. In 2008 and 2009, while the yellow company led Serbia 20km of railways was done, in 2010 zero kilometers of railways. Nothing's been done. From 2000 to 2012 for a full 12 years, no cell space has been built and therefore, in the absence of arguments, women's rights are being called for, women's rights from working relationship are being called for. Here I am asking my colleague Balša Bozovic, 400,000 people in Serbia are out of work for robbery privatisations. There must be 200 thousand women among them. That doesn't hurt. You're in pain with eight women. The question is, are you telling the truth? Only in Leskovac who had 15,000 workers who were out of work you left at least 7,000 women out of work. It's a shame what you serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47290	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47291	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 was injured, Article 108 was injured. I did indeed pray yesterday for a broad understanding of the man who graduated from Bona fides, it seems now that he has completed his postgraduate studies through a relationship with the Shumarc, right across the road in the forest in Pioneer Park. I really don't understand his desire to finish the High School of Medicine in Turkey, so now he's worried about whether someone over there will sign his exams to pass it or not. They won't, sir, where they teach people honor, dignity, where they do the kind of things that you're used to happening to you, in law school, in his basement, in Bona fides, here in the woods across the street, for those postgraduate engineering studies, you can't experience it in the gurri. You still have to learn there to pass the exam. It's clear you can say anything and everything here. When it comes to ignorance and it can be forgiven but your greed, your greed for this collection of these diplomas, nothing deserved really exceeds every measure and your conduct, you really begin to insult the dignity of this home, because none of the MPs here has broken or done anything illegal or done anything illegal, unlike you, who from 2000 to 2012, did everything that is immoral, anything that is illegal when it comes to Serbia and don't at least talk about any dignity or that someone has done something beyond the rules and rules, because your diploma is exactly what it shouldn't be, you are the ones who have lived on the wave of evil for 12 years and you won't come back in a chance to do what you do in this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47292	Thank you. When I see how much damage there is to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 112, I set a break and continue our work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47293	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Zivan Djurisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47294	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs, will continue to list the building for the general purpose of infrastructure on the territory of the Municipality of Velika Plan, in which investment has been carried out for the past three years, since the SNS assumed responsibility for the exercise of power in this municipality. I will list some of the investments made during this period, thanks to the politics of President Aleksandr Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government. A low-voltage network worth 49 million dinars has been reconstructed on the territory of all local communities. A power line was built for the Lozovica Cesm, it was renovated and released into the work of the Trafostation Plan 2. Construction of power lines for accessing the Trnovac water factory is under way, worth 10 million dinars. The project was approved by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, for the reconstruction of the High School field in the Great Plan, which was successfully completed, as well as a project of nine million dinars for the city's swimming pool. A railway was reconstructed, on a stake from Lozovic to the Great Plana, between 29km of 453mm and 14.9m euros in loans and 6.5m euros from their own sources. The local self-government of the Great Plan municipality, from its own resources, had significant investments in the construction and repair of local roads throughout its territory. In 2015, 47 million people invested in construction and about 20 million to repair roads. In 2016 68 million 700 000 were invested in construction and 16 million for road repair. In 2017, 51 million 200 000 were invested in construction and 40 million in repair and maintenance, and according to the plan, whose implementation is under way, in 2018 12 million 700 000 were invested in construction and 84 million in road maintenance. In the voting day, I will vote for this law and the other laws that have been proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47295	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47296	The Honorable President, Deputy Prime Minister, with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, we held a debate in particular on the draft law on construction products in the previous days. This law will allow every construction product to comply with technical requirements that will allow our companies, producers of these materials, to place their products on foreign markets. Each of these products will be marked by the Republic of Serbia, which means that the product is in line with harmonised standards. The manufacturer assumes responsibility for the conformity of this construction product with EU regulations. In this way, it shall be ensured that each product or batch of the same product concerned is linked to a particular declaration using an identification code of the type or type of product. Serbia was once known for construction products, i.e. She had the highest quality brick, cement, tiles, and our factories hired a huge number of people. All these factories disappeared in robbery privatisations after 2000, and one of them was "Trudnik" Belgrade. Serbia today is making an effort to restart the production of construction products and to come out with them, not only on our market, but to take a visible place in exports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47297	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, colleague Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47298	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers, with fellow Members, respected MPs, following the current course of discussion of proposed laws in principle, but also in particular by amendments, I would like to point out that I am very pleased and proud to live right now, which I am part of this very team to whom you belong, which belongs to this very political party led today by Aleksandar Vukic and which we, all together, are correcting all the mistakes that are just across the road, members of the yellow government, which unfortunately led Serbia almost to the end of their incompetence, indifference, indifference, indifference, indifference, indifference, corruption, crime and robbery. The people, fortunately, recognized and forever removed them from power. We listen to them today, in every place, and here, criticising every bill and denying every success we've achieved and doing it without any shame, as if it weren't the ones who, while in power, were incompetent, dishonest, ignorant and looting, not threatening to steal from even children distracted by development, ruining everything around themselves and the whole state of Serbia. Therefore, honourable Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, I urge you to continue your efforts to raise Serbia to your feet, to make it a modern, orderly, developed, legal and democratic European state. I support your bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47299	Thank you, colleague Djokic. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's your colleague, Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47300	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, allow me first of all to thank the minister and her associates for timely and good information, and for the questions I asked yesterday, so should be done. My amendment, above all, is an attempt to strengthen this law that follows, and this law monitors the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, in the economic and sustainable development of our country. If that were the case, I would say quite normal, that we are missing this law, not only about the EU and everything, but when we know that it is concrete, and I translate everything and bring it down to that local level, in the Kingdom, in the next year, building 900 apartments for members of the security service and in that village, that certain investors are already interested, that they create a good and large market centre first, and we have already started work on the construction of the school in that village. Schools after 40 and a few years, meaning 1965, there was a temporary school in an assembly facility. It seems it has taken many years for the SNS to take over and finally have someone remember that this temporary facility collapses and builds a modern and new school. What do you say to all those comments, to some new grandmother Wang, to some Ljubiše Trgovevići, to tweeters? Nothing. You, President, and we all here, starting with ministers, associates and MPs, should continue to do what we do best, to create the future, and let them tweet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47301	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's your colleague, Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47302	The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs, I had the opportunity to speak with two brick builders during the debate on this law. They are exporters and they look forward to passing this law, because they have already leveled their products in quality with products that are in the EU since they export there. They're looking forward to it because they're going to have a loyal competition, and others are going to have to do it. So much for this, and yesterday we mentioned the big ventures that you made in the infrastructure, first of all in travel infrastructure, and I would say, when it comes to railing, you have reconstructed the direction that I find interesting, it is a strategic for the state, and that is Belgrade-Mladeovac, Smederjevska Palanka-Velika Plana. It's a railroad in over 100 kilometers an hour. I would now rely on the previous discussion of my colleague, those electric trains that go, they're overneeded to go to Smederjevska Palanka and the Great Plana, because believe me, 18 thousand, and we've heard that, Mladenova, is working in Belgrade. Belgrade is a great employer for us, as predecessors have closed all factories in Mladenov. A little less from Smederjevska Palanka travels, and also from the Great Plane is a significant number. We need to have electric trains that bring people to Belgrade, because as I'm telling you, Mladenovac has 100 bus departures per day for Belgrade, and that's little, and Smederjevska Palanka four, then you can imagine that other people are going with their cars just that way through Palanka-Mladenovac, which we hope to reconstruct next year, bring him to be a highway and thus get close to Belgrade which is our need. I have to tell you one more thing, if time allows me, there's a village called Kusadak, in the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, there are 5,000 residents, and once two thousand worked on the railway. They always want to separate themselves from Smederjevska Palanka and attach to Mladenova because they live better in Mladenova. Don't let them, let's make life better in that part of Serbia and make it impossible for them to think that way, not just for them, but for the sake of...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47303	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandra Jevtic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Aleksandra Jevtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47304	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government with their associates and distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 relating to the improvement of business. At the very beginning, I would like to thank you, dear minister, and your ministry, which, by its up-to-date pledge and investment in travel infrastructure, has contributed to certain investors and to the development of certain investments that are evident in Vrnjačka Banja. At first, I'd say we don't have factories to brag about. Actually, we have factories, but no chimneys. We have factories that are actually hotels, hotels that are highly categorized, hotels that provide quality service to their users, quality care, such as the Mercury Special Hospital, which I must commend to this opportunity, and many other highly categorized hotels. As for the other investments that I would mention, and there have been many over the last few years, I will only mention some capital that are our pride and Dick, such as our promenade and where the value of the investment amounted to about 80 million dinars, as well as a very attractive location on Church Hill, which has been turned into a beautiful waterfall, so that not only Jagodina can boast about her waterfall, but we, and investment in school, would highlight the high school building. For the sake of time, I will use time in other amendments, but in the end, let me thank you again. Yesterday I noted that I simply believe that the construction of this particular Moravian corridor will contribute to further investing and investing in Vrnjačka Banja, to bring in new guests, which is domestic, that and foreign. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47305	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Here you go, Dr. Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47306	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, it is certain that the positive effects of the new law on construction products will be felt by all, and by the manufacturers of building materials, distributors, investors, designers, as well as the laboratory for quality assessment. Serbia will first receive a regulation that regulates this area, and this law will be an additional incentive to develop construction and will allow building facilities to be safer and more environmentally acceptable. Unlike the period when the government was headed by the DS and when it all stopped in the country, in the last four years progress in all areas has been evident, and especially in construction, so we can freely say that the biggest advances in production in the beginning of 2018 have been made by companies producing materials for the construction industry. When it started building bridges, apartments, hotels, business facilities, then everything else in the country started. Data confirm that the biggest shift has been achieved by companies in the production of creps, carpentry, floors, chemistry and machinery and electrical installations. All of this has also led to the employment of a large number of workers. President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are taking responsibility for our country and pay equal attention to each segment, so it is certain that this growth pace will continue, and the confirmation of this is new projects for building apartments for the military. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47307	Thank you, Dr. Krivokapic. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47308	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the construction industry in Serbia numbers about 11,500 companies and employs about 116,700 workers. Only about 700 companies and about 12,500 workers deal with construction material. In the future, if construction products do not meet the prescribed standards, they will not be able to obtain the necessary certificates and will not be able to place them on the market. The ultimate goal is to ensure that safe, quality and permanent building materials are installed in roads, houses and bridges. This law that we are talking about today corresponds to the environment in which Serbia is located, which is an increase in the number of construction sites from day to day, which is also witnessed by the pavedness and expansion of the most damaged shares of the state road Ćupria-Senje-Manastir Ravanica in the length of 6.7km. The realisation was agreed on during the visit of President Vučića Tupriji. The total value of them is 1.2m euros, which is fully financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Citizens of the Pomorava County are pleased, expressing their gratitude to the government of the Republic of Serbia for this investment. In voting day, the SNS will support this and other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47309	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47310	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with co-workers, since the arrival of SNS and Aleksandar Vukic in Serbia, root reforms have been launched, so that Serbia will not go against an ambience in which it was pushed by Serbia's largest political evil, once again trying to trick Serbian citizens into a major political scam called the Alliance for Serbia. With long, hard and hard work, and primarily with wise and determined moves and policies led by Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia has become a country where the economy is based on real and stable finances. We have become the state with the largest number of infrastructure projects in this part of Europe, perhaps wider, you will correct me. We have become a country that in just a few years' time has improved the position on the Duing Business List by 50 seats, a country with stable finances, a third-year budget surplus, a country that has more inflows in foreign direct investment than all other countries in the region combined, a state with the highest free trade contract, a country in which hundreds of miles of highways, regional roads, untegorised roads, then hospitals, kindergartens, etc., in which, due to the results achieved in the economy, we record an increase in wages and pensions, but on realistic grounds, a country in which unemployment is multiplely reduced, a country that is safe for the lives of its citizens, a country where honor and dignity have been paid back. The only policy implemented by those of the Alliance for Serbia is pathological hatred for Alexander Vukic and constant attacks on him, on members of his family, on his parents, on his brother, and even on children, that is the policy they offer to the citizens of Serbia, hatred and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47311	Thank you, my fellow Prince. My colleague Aleksandra Tomic, come in. On what grounds, just tell me. (Alexandra Tomic: I'm in order. You're not up yet. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, and I'm sorry, but I have to read everything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47312	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, my amendment applies and puts a special accent on the 2030 Agenda, practically one strategic world document where the world goes when it comes to all areas of society's development, so does Serbia and what the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are carrying. One of the most important parts of this agenda, which is related to this law and to construction, is the part relating to Objective 11, which says "sustainable cities and communities", as well as Part 9, which says that the area of infrastructure is one of the most important objectives in which we should develop. I think your ministry, too, Mrs Mihajlovic, simply follows these world trends and that what the entire government has foreseen for this year is over 80 billion dinars for infrastructure projects. We will have the construction of new sustainable small cities, in fact, in seven of our cities that show that by applying new materials defined by this law we are making huge savings for the budget, but a great benefit to the citizens of Serbia, because many of them will solve their life issues, both residential and they simply live by the new standards that the world is dealing with. What is important to say about the city of Belgrade, it is that over a million squares have been issued in the last year through building permits for construction. If we compare the time when Mr. Miskovic and Gilas held the budget in the claws of their government and simply did not allow any construction to take place at all, when one Belville project was to be sold, a state project and put money in private pockets, and that is the answer from which 25m euros have savings as one of the former mayors of Belgrade, as is the case with Gilas. We now have a case that such people want to return and rebuild certain small cities, to take practically out of the Republic of Serbia's budget that money and create a political career. What is important to say is that we made over four billion dinars last year for these million squares built in the city of Belgrade and that we have a new 550,000 square meters through building permits, showing that Belgrade is becoming a serious modern metropolis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47313	Thank you, colleague Tomic. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Here you go, Dr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47314	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 72, which provides for the Republic of Serbia to provide, among other things, the basic direction of economic and technological development, and also to establish a free and open market, with the preservation and improvement of living conditions and the environment in general, as well as consumer protection, without prejudice to their health and safety. The most important reason for the adoption of this draft law on construction products is the need to regulate the placing on the market of construction products by general regulation, which has not been regulated so far and in this way, with only construction products suitable for use being placed on the market. This law contains technical and other requirements to ensure the protection of safety, both human life and health, as well as the protection of the environment, the protection of consumers and other users, as well as the protection of investors. Another important reason for the adoption of this law is the fulfilment of the obligation to bring domestic legislation into line with the EU regulations of negotiating Chapter 1, which speaks of freedom of movement of goods, as well as the quality of products and services. Construction as a complex activity involves services and processes, from design to execution, as well as the installation of finished products, where the building facility must meet all requirements for end-user security. The work of construction is closely linked and conditioned by environmental protection and as such represents an important factor in sustainable development. The draft law on construction products lays down the conditions for placing on the market 35 areas of construction products, and the positive effects of the provisions of this law affect all actors on the market in construction products, through investors, designers, contractors, bodies to assess compliance and to supervisory authorities. All will be enabled to apply all harmonised technical specifications, which will inevitably occur at the moment of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47315	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Alexandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47316	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about a set of construction laws, we cannot help but mention the issue of illegal cottages of Tomislav Nikolic built on the Sava Nasip, at the very end of Block 45 in New Belgrade. These cottages represent a flagrant example of the failure of competent services and institutions, since they have been standing for several years, although their destruction has long been announced. This terrain, Savski nask, is a protected Sava River Belt, since there is a rash on this ground that protects New Belgrade from possible floods. We've seen what happened in Obrenovac, and these things don't need to be played. In addition, there are 16 renaissance wells in this area that draw groundwater, which drink and use all Belgraders. If these wells are damaged in any way by illegal construction, Belgraders will pay for the revitalisation of each city well of about 600,000 euros. According to the authorities, hundreds of illegal facilities are located in this area, and among them are, as I have already said, three cottages owned by Tomislav Nikolic and his sons. You, Madam Minister, said in a previous statement on this subject that the SRS is part of the ruling coalition in New Belgrade and asked the question why these cottages are not being torn down, which is contrary to your statement on 15 March 2017, when you said that the city of Belgrade is in charge of these cottages, and that local self-government is obliged to deliver its plans to objects that cannot be legalised. Since these objects cannot be legalized, the question arises when will the state work to bring them down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47317	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47318	Let me say it again. It is true that you and Capic were in power and that you were able to solve the problem. Now, to be perfectly honest, many municipal inspections in Belgrade have not solved many facilities, so, among other things, the city of Novo-Belgrade. It wouldn't be right to say now that you haven't solved one problem, and there are so many more. But I deeply believe that after the adoption of this law and the inspections in all municipalities, as much as some did not like the word, but were centralized under the city of Belgrade, I believe that the law will be much better implemented, so everything that is illegal and which cannot be legal and which is in any way in the jurisdiction of the city, but also in the municipality, will be resolved in that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47319	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47320	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, this law or more precisely since it is not yet a legal proposal is another original child of the building ministry and its minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, who wants to be the first to enter Europe first, to agree with the EU, which leaves us still to acidify on the waiting list for entry into that artificial and unnatural alliance. I must point out that this is purely technical law and all that has been given in this law is more a matter of sublaw than real legal norms. Thus, this law in this form was not necessary as the Proposer argues, regardless of the arguments and calls for the complexity and specificity of construction products. Well, please, which are the products that don't have their own specificity. Thus, this legislative logic requires the adoption of a single law, for example, on dairy products, on rubber or plastic products, wood, paper. Therefore, there were sufficient amendments or additions to any of the existing laws in this area, such as the Standardisation Act or the Market Surveillance Act or the Planning and Construction Act. And why would they do that when it's so louder, it's louder, it's just that I'm not sure it's still visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47321	Thank you, Professor Boyich. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Maria Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47322	I thank the chairman. I would just like to close this debate to remind myself once again that Serbian citizens will not feel better once these laws are passed. The Bolitak will feel tycoons that will now be able to legalize their property, and as for the quality of construction products we will still have a suspicious quality, the check will not be done before their installation. So there is still a danger that we have both stinking buildings and the destruction of buildings and citizens' interests are not protected. Since I had already received one warning in this same environment the other day when I called Minister Zorana Mihajlovic because of the behavior when Kyle Scott said that KIM are not part of the Republic of Serbia, they are an independent state. Here, we will give Minister Zorana Mihajlovic a chance that she herself will say what her position is, whether KIM is part of the state of Serbia and whether, at the same time later, she will explain it to the minister, to explain to the US ambassador, and my personal request that the ministry she is leading, in the future, advocates the construction of roads within Serbia, to connect the eastern and western parts, that someone from Piroth can come to Požeg, Uzice, Prepolje, rather than build a road to Drac and that Serbia finance Albania's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47323	Thank you. We've got business reports. You, counterpart Janjusevic, obviously have some fiction when it comes to Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, but good. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47324	You're the chairman of a very tolerated man, it's already known. However, you should have probably used the Institute of Warning this time, at the very least, to stop our colleague's exposure. Because where will it be more convincing than that, which is what Article 107 is talking about. The Rules of Procedure I'm referring to will make it more convincing than when you say you don't bring the law to the benefit of the tycoons. It is important to explain first and foremost because of the citizens of Serbia, all of these laws and all of these legal solutions we make to prevent tycoons and the same tycoons that are today political bosses of a respected colleague, such as Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, and why not Bosko Obradovic. That part about KIM, I think it's already clearly said about it by our colleague Martinovic and presented the data, and we should talk about facts. He said exactly how much this government and this president did for the people of KIM, and I think that's the best measure of what both the president and the government are doing when it comes to KIM. I ask you to take care of this in the future and to stop this exposure at the very least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47325	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Dr. Vesovic, you asked for a replica? (No) The word has Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47326	You know what, first when you mention this Nis-Medarre-Pristina highway and you advocate not to build it, then I would say yes, you are the first to think that Pristina is not in the Republic of Serbia. So, I don't understand, you're against it. This stance, in fact, tells us that Dvori is pushing for Kosovo to be outside Serbia, because Pristina, where is, in Albania or Kosovo? Is Kosovo part of Serbia or not? So that's the first thing. The second thing you're saying, first of all, lies in front of the citizens of Serbia, we have a direct transmission for the citizens of Serbia. The sentence - that tycoons will now be able to sharpen their objects and that criminals and tycoons will now be able to build is a lie. That's why we're bringing amendments and additions to this law, just so that tycoons and criminals can't build illegally. Therefore, at least inform yourself or read the law. As for any personal requests, I think you've slept through for a while and you don't know that Serbia is developing and how, not only by building highways, but by rich regional and all other roads. A party that advocates hanging and killing the president, the prime minister, etc., should I even answer your personal requests? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47327	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Dr. Vesovic, you have no right, you know. Here, I didn't hear, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47328	There's a stenogram of good luck, so we can then consolidate what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47329	Keep going, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47330	Yes, rest assured, I'm not inclined to twist someone else's words, unlike Mrs. Secretary who did it right before me. So, if the minister listened well to the MP, she did not say Belgrade-Pristina, but Belgrade-Drac. So there's a stenogram again. If you're talking about Kosovo, we from the Serbian Dvora Movement, we're talking about KIM. I've got to distract you here, too. If you need to get into some sort of hanging controversy, ma'am. I asked you yesterday if you support that the Serbian Movement of the Dvori and the MPs of the opposition are oligofrene. I'm a health worker, you don't have to know what it means – mental retardation, mental retardation, faintness. According to the IQ, it's divided into three categories - lmbecillence, imbecillability and idiotic. We've heard it from your MPs from your political option. Do you support that? I asked you yesterday, you didn't answer me. I'm the one who fenced myself. I don't have a problem fenced for what's wrong, and you're telling us that we're all the same and you're talking, and then all of a sudden, yours, ours. It's not okay, Madam Minister, we have to show responsibility for every spoken word and we on this side and you on that side, because I really believe that no one here loves Serbia more than I do, nor do I give myself the right to believe that others love it less than I do. But I'm being imputed all the time – betrayal, betrayal, sales. Aman, aman, more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47331	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47332	Just so it's clear to everyone. So the Dvora movement, you stand for justice, and then we see on the other hand you call for murder and hanging. Believe me, I'd rather be whatever it is, but I don't accept you killing me or anyone else. So I'm talking about both the President and the Prime Minister. You stand for Kosovo, your mouth and words are full of KIM, and you are against the highway to Pristina. So, for you, Pristina is not in Kosovo. Repeat. That's for the record. They're Dwri's attitudes. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47333	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just because I greatly appreciate this high building, I didn't want to continue the replicas with Mrs. Secretary, because I knew I needed to speak by amendment. When I talked about the law, I told a lot of stories about the EU, what we will do when we bring this law into line with the EU, and today the capital of the Republic of Serbia comes to the capital of Bundestag, Peter Byer, by name and last name and says literally – Serbs should know the message of Angela Merkel – there is no EU without recognition of the sovereign state of the Republic of Kosovo. What do we do now? Are we going to sell Kosovo because of the EU or am I an enemy of Serbia that I say that the EU should fall apart and that we should do these things for us and not for the EU. I've been talking about it for two years, but there's no one to hear it. Here, the man said today, come out, say on TV a clear and loud message to Angela Merkel, our great friend who loves and supports us very much. What do we do now? I'm waiting for you to answer me. Either Mr. Peter Byer is telling a lie or maybe Mrs. Angela Merkel is telling a lie or I'm the enemy of a state that says, "Let's get out of the way of the EU." Let's watch what's good for the Republic of Serbia, which is good for us. But I'm still waiting for Mrs. Minister to build up or support that the opposition is an oligophrene, so mentally retarded, mentally retarded or weak-minded. I'll ask the Minister every time you're here until I get an answer. I know it's hard to get past your party's decisions sometimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47335	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. National MP Vladimir Orlic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47336	Since a very interesting question has been asked, of course, it is no secret to anyone what Chancellor Merkel or official Germany thinks, what is their political position. What it says in those documents that define European integration is the second question, but what's more interesting -- it's not these issues, which I consider to be some level of internal dilemmas, questions for us, these are questions for those people who are politically leading those who have these internal dilemmas. For example, a question for Dragan Gilas. The man said seven days ago, as soon as he and all of them come to power together, the process of European integration will continue. So it's not clear to them whether they want these things they're talking about or not, whether they agree with what some MEP says, although each of them, of course, can say their opinions as well as any of us, or disagree. This kind of internal dilemma should be clarified with Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Lutovac and all others from their camp who claim to continue the process of European integration and will work towards Serbia's EU on all conditions. That thing needs to be shared between itself and itself, and then we can talk to them, even though our opinion here is always clear, but we don't need to discuss this kind of dilemma with them. They'll still have to do it without us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47337	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Dragan Vesovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Our colleague Orlic had a very short exposure and responded to what you said. Let's get on with the work. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47338	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must be aware that legal solutions will have an impact on many subjects, such as, above all, investors of objects and citizens who use these objects and the like and, most importantly, legal solutions have much more negative than positive influences. Law-making cannot be justified by protecting the environment, protecting human health and protecting consumers. Not everything has to be good that comes from the EU. Our, and other countries, have bad experience with EU products, where products do not have, say, the EU market, where they do not possess one quality, and products intended for other countries have a completely different quality. Let's say, that's the case, specifically, not just for construction material, but especially for food. The positive effects of this are given on the basis of an analysis of the study financed by the Swedish International Development Co-operation Agency. We have so far had many different analyses on different topics and many of them have proved to be a complete failure. On the other hand, it's not all regulations and standards. It takes a different approach to many things. It is necessary to sanction all those responsible for any failures that are not a small number in this area. We heard it in this high house on several occasions for Corridor 10, when at one location in the Gredile ravine we had several repeated cases of dives and similar things. Here, say, if this were to happen in an orderly state, believe that the only honorable and moral act would be to resign, in this case, you, Madam Minister. It's not a sin, I think it's honorable and fair, that if you don't have another solution, you'll resign to that place you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47339	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47340	The collapse of bridges and overpasses, the exacerbation of floods, the threat of riverbeds and coasts, all of this has been happening in Serbia for decades. The gravel or the sand of the mob, whatever you want. The ministers have changed since 2000, however, this problem, Mrs. Mihajlovic, has not been systemically resolved. People who are not aware of this think it's not a job, however, Serbian citizens should know that profits are legal and illegal, even when the legal gravel player who pays all the debts and compensations to the state are minimally those taxes they pay, and trades are huge. On a daily basis, it is several thousand, somewhere even, depending on the size of the job, and tens of thousands of euros, and those who do it completely illegally and sell it on the black market, so they are destroying the infrastructure for which you are in charge and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in return. In the valley of West Morava, we even talked about when he was Minister of Ecology and a little bit wider about other riverbeds, I'm going to tell you specifically about all the villages that have been in the area of the Municipality of Čačak and Kraljevo, this problem has been expressed for decades. When you talk about both the sea corridor and the route that needs to go through that area, about the project that's going on, we said that we are specifically against "Bechtel" and we will do everything we can to prevent them from doing the job, but whoever's doing this is, you know, sinning towards these people and the locals of those villages that you are now promising them towers and cities, and that this problem is not solved. The people have lost their fields. Do you believe that they are so boastful, encumbered in crime, and that happens in the eyes of the inspection bodies, or are they connected to local self-government, to the ministries, to the highest authorities, that people are damaged for their grandfather and for what they can't use, because someone is rich, and an honest peasant has lost his field?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47341	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47342	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted the amendment in question. I expect that this amendment should be considered and thought adopted. What I'd like to point out to the minister of the current is whether enough inspection is being done in the construction of the roads? Apparently, the minister isn't interested. He's not listening to the MP. (President: I'm sorry, it's my fault. ) Madam Minister, between Panchev and Belgrade from 2000 to today three times the highway is being built. He's digging in. What kind of material is he made of? There was Minister Velija Ilic in the first place. It was later inherited by others. He's been through it three times. It costs the state a lot. Second, who oversees road construction, and what material is being built into the roads? How is it possible that, after three months, you come across roads that are built in Serbia, you come across holes, trenches, without the one who built what he built and did not answer when it comes to supervision? In 1936, a road was built between Novi Sad and Belgrade, and part of the road between Banstel and Stara Pazova and today stands upright and usable. How is it possible that no one is responsible for those pillars in Chačka on that bypass that broke? Madam Minister, you must call someone responsible for this. It can't go like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47343	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47344	When you ask who's responsible for, say, Ub – Lajkovac, the ministry has filed a criminal report to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, and now we're fixing it and we'll pay another $10 million. When you ask who was responsible for this viaduct at Cačka, for which a million euros were spent in 2003, while Velja Ilic was the minister, a report was also filed. Therefore, the ministry functions and addresses institutions. Now we wait for these institutions to do their job and move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47345	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. National MP Petar Jojic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47346	According to the amendment, the answer to the claims...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47347	No, you don't have time, but you do, here's a replica, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47348	I'd just ask that the minister has in mind, this hasn't been done since you've been here, there's been a lot of things done that aren't right, and it's not out of date for prosecution. There are crimes that last 20 years. It's not enough, Madam Minister, that you've now given me an answer. You filed a criminal report, but I'm asking what the institutions are doing, i.e. What's the prosecution doing, what's the court doing? Without these authorities, this is not the state of affairs that can be maintained or engaged in such matters as billions and billions. Here, for example, what happened in Panchev? You have "Monter" famous, who performed works on a new hall of sports, which was a hall intended for the University. Where'd half the money go? What happened to building a health home in Panchev? What happened to the new dump? What kind of material, since this is an object and type of building material, examine whether the construction of the Panchev dump cost about 20m euros in 20 years. Where's the money? Where's the material? Second, what material was installed there? Is someone gonna answer? That's what this is about. It's not enough, I understand, the minister, or the competent consignor, to file a criminal report, what happens to criminal charges? Is there a contact with the D.A.? Why isn't the prosecution responding? What's the damage to the budget? What's the damage to the state? Another question for you, if it is possible to answer me, are there any possibilities to build an inter-mural road in the municipality of Nova Varosh, between Nedlin and Jasenov? Five villages cry for the road, it's not a big cost, there's no need because there's a hard base. Local self-government does not pay attention to these five villages, and citizens and youth in those places and in these villages should stay in the village. That trip, Madam Minister, would be worth a lot, and you now see if you're paying attention to this question of mine or not, or you're going to formally, in a way, but there are opportunities in the field, not big investments, please consider it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47349	Thank you, colleague Jojic. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here's a colleague of LJubenović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47350	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on construction products. Article 3 defines the application of the law and not all construction products, as well as the classification of areas. We've suggested a change in point 11. That applies to sanitary equipment. There are a number of areas of construction products, and in this proposal, the laws in Article 3 are classified as 35 groups. What is significant is that the proposer himself states in his reasoning that, given that the proposal for a law on construction products lays down the conditions for placing on the market 35 areas of construction products. It also means the positive effects of the provisions of this law affect all actors in the construction product market, from the construction industry, products, via investors, projectors, contractors, bodies to assess compliance with supervisory authorities. That is why the SRS parliamentary group tried to propose a concrete solution to this amendment so that certain areas would not remain incomplete, and we see that the proposing was not willing to engage in reading our constructive proposals, so the ruling majority would likely adopt the text as proposed. The promoter has indicated his intention to regulate the area of construction products, which is necessary in view of the progress of technology and technology in this area, the emergence of new construction products and the challenges posed by developed markets in front of the domestic construction industry. However, when you receive a concrete amendment from the opposition's ranks, specifically the SRS, the proponent rejects it with an inconclusive explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47351	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment intervention refers to Article 3 paragraph 1 point 20, where we wanted in a more appropriate way to regulate the concepts treated by this law and its very application. Before that, however, another question needs to be asked. Madam Minister, I don't think you're competent for this area, not because you're a doctor of economic science, before you this ministry led an orthopedic, but because you're sending a bad message to the citizens of Serbia, and you're at the head of a ministry that is very important and important. We've talked here all these days about building permits, how it's necessary, and the SRS wants this problem to be settled that way. We want as many illegally built objects as possible not to be destroyed, but to be legalised, but as you can demand and tell anyone to approach the solution of the problem in such a way, here is a great title, "Vratoljub bridged Drina with a tunnel, Belgrade closer to 50km". It's not just a few cities of Lyubovia, Bratunac, Srebrenica, it's about connecting two very large territories, two states. I don't mean the Republic of Serbia, I mean BiH and Serbia. It is true that this bridge was opened in 2017, somewhere just before the formation of the government, i.e. by the oath of Alexander Vukic and you were there. Do you know how that bridge is open? By not being able to, but by no means crossing. More than once, you explain and give us one answer here. The BiH Council of Ministers Security Minister says completely different, Dragan Mehtic says Serbia has not solved the problem or the negotiating team. Of course, you will now report and there has been little and there was a problem likely to solve this problem because there have been general elections in BiH, and now Madam Minister, there is only one thing for you to press or resign. I thought you were pressing to solve the license problem, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47353	Thank you, colleague Peric. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Radeta's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47354	There's no such thing as Zorani Mihajlović with bridges, and here yesterday was news news shows that six months had not been reconstructed in Cačka, which has been talked about here as some which has already been done. I remember maybe two or three years ago when you worked bridge in Zajecar, then you were in full love with Sasa Mirkovic, I was the day before you came, people tell me – tomorrow Zorana Mihajlović comes with TV to open this bridge. I say – What opens the bridge, not one third finished? Really, the next day you were, the bridge was closed and the works were completed, the works were suspended, some coverts were placed, and after seven or eight minutes when you left, the cameras went, continued work on that bridge. So, there's this, if we had time to talk about all the details, we'd have just talked, but you said earlier, I mean fellow Jojic, you ask this, you ask that, and you're answering, and we're asking, who's responsible, and how did it come to be that "Bechtel" instead of the Chinese "Exim Bank" got this opportunity that instead of 500m euros that "Exim Bank" was supposed to be for the Pojate-Preljina bridge, how did the Americans through "Bechtella" sit there, what the newspaper wrote about it today, I really did write something that I didn't believe too much, but Zorana Mihajlovic is in pretty good grace with these newspapers, so anyway? I wanted to say one more thing, though it's about this demolition law you're proposing, here's today's one crash in Zemun, and I saw that it's in the media, but I'm not commenting on it based on the media, but I talked to that man last year. The man built an unlawfully large facility, a huge object, the truth, right next to Sonja Marinkovic's school and he couldn't legally legalize it. On the other hand, "Sonja Marinkovic" school is the same size, approximately, a parcel that has grown into weeds and he wanted to preserve the facility by offering it to the Municipality of Zemun and the city of Belgrade and the Republic and the Red Cross, and he wanted the facility in which he invested serious money to be used for something. So the plot one, by some preparation, and the one on the right and on the left, is united with the plot on which the school is on, but you have a collapse in your soul, not to preserve something. So you didn't have to legalize that private face, but you could. He offered school, so he could serve as a school facility, so then, I don't know, an object in which a kindergarten could be opened, where a day-long class could be organized, etc. So here are some concrete things. Unfortunately, we don't have time for details.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47355	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47356	Dear Mrs. Radeta, first of all, this law is not called the demolition law, but is called amendments and additions to the Law on the Law of Objects. So our interest certainly is to legalize everything possible. You're absolutely right, I have a soul, but it's in my soul that all those who deal with crime and corruption and who build illegally, yes, they need everything to be brought down. You, on the other hand, were your colleague giving the amendment completely opposite. You have protected and protected these amendments by all those criminals and tycoons who have built anything illegal in the past two, three years, because you have advocated, through an amendment to a member, some of the previous ones, we have heard that, therefore, everything has been mutilated that has been illegally built for the previous two years. Those who built this in the previous two years, dear Serbian citizens, are mostly the biggest criminals, i.e. tycoons. That's one thing. I'm sure you have the right answer for me. The second thing, you mention "Bechtel," the American company, you've been calling me a traitor here for days, a lobbyist, etc., you've said a lot to me in these few days. I keep saying, therefore, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making decisions, that, on the basis of the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, memorandums are signed, therefore, not contracts. When you talk about price, so I clearly explain what that price is, that it's possibly the maximum estimate, that you still don't know the price, because not all the projects have been completed yet. Nevertheless, you continue and attack. Now one thing is not clear to me, so I would like to show the citizens of Serbia, because I really don't understand, what policy is that? So these are pictures when it was Donald Trump's election campaign. So it wasn't that long ago, a year ago. The Serbian Radical Party has strongly advocated the victory of Donald Trump. So it says everywhere that Serbian citizens can see well – the vote of Trump, the SRS, etc. So, the SRS is supporting Donald Trump, and we're figuring it out. Is that right? Now I don't understand one thing. If we know that the SRS supports Donald Trump and the United States, why does it not support the US Government Agreement? I think we have an answer, you'll tell me if I'm right. Since we know how the SRS works, then somehow I guess they might have a promise or something from another American company, so now they don't like this one. It wouldn't be the first time. It wouldn't be the first time, because we also have statements from your president that stood up for one of our companies that got 50m euros on one of the corridors and did their job wrong. He thought they were doing a great job. So is that schizophrenic or not? So, are you in favour of that Donald Trump policy, because you told Serbian citizens here, or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47357	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47358	It's not SRS policy schizophrenic, but this little earlier behavior of yours looks a little like schizophrenia. So, we did and we're proud that we...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47359	Comrade Radeta, you give the answer. Don't insult me. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47360	I'm giving the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47361	There's talk of "Bechtel", "Bexter", I don't know, companies, it's a strict topic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47362	What did she just say?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47363	It's a very strict subject. Nothing bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47364	Listen to what she did and how she ended the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47365	She showed pictures, photos. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47366	Okay. You didn't hear her last line. It's nice that he's advertising pictures of the SRS, of our officials and of our members of the activists. Yeah, we ran a campaign to beat Donald Trump. Our president called on Serbs in those countries where he once hosted and where there are many Serbs and indeed these voices have contributed significantly to Donald Trump's victory. You know why we did it? Well, not to beat your Hillary Clinton. Imagine what would happen to Serbia and Serbs if your Hilary won? In any case, as far as Donald Trump's policy is concerned, we expect already to see some change in politics towards Serbia, that his relationship with Mr Putin will be more positive and more positive, etc. We, unlike you, are in politics in the long run and Donald Trampa is not the owner of Bechtela and Donald Trump, unlike you, is not a fan of the NATO Pact and the question is that NATO will end up just thanks to Donald Trump. You accused us of trying to legalize the facilities of some criminals, etc. with some amendment. I don't have time to name you all the criminals you're protecting right now, but I'll just tell Tom Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47367	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47368	I'll try to be very brief. About the amendment you said I was talking about. Yeah, I'm behind it. We can also read that amendment. Your colleague gave that amendment. Fortunately, we have rejected this amendment, of course, because it would really mean that we should legalize all those who built it after the Law of Law was passed. I don't think we should be dealing with this, that the SRS, I'm sure, isn't in its political agenda. My suggestion, as Minister of Construction, is that Mr. Seselj report papers when doing them at home. So, because under the Law on Planning and Construction, Article 145, you are required to report the papers. So Mr. Seselj bought a house in Krtkovci for Serbian citizens. He says some people helped him, he gave it 40,000 euros. It's this house that was built without a building permit, among other things. It's not still listed, and then he took it and, of course, invested some, it's very nice, the serious money he spent there, but you have to know that by the Law of Planning and Construction, he's bound to report it, to get approval from the municipality so he can do it at all. That's one. He's also obliged to report it to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which he didn't, so my suggestion is as a man who's the Minister of Construction to do it anyway. Don't embarrass yourself, because you're telling the citizens of Serbia about honesty, morality, everything, and your president is doing this thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47369	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47370	I don't know who hired Zorana Mihajlovic to advertise the SRS this much. We are looking forward to seeing as many Serbian citizens as possible this radical facility in Krtkovci, but Seselj should not report the house to the Agency. It's Michael Seselj's house for your... You don't have to, you don't have to, you don't know the law. Did you report those three purses worth how much that house in the Krutkovci? That's what we should report. The value of the seven thousand-euro purse should be applied to the Agency, too, if you didn't know, and you didn't do it. So the house in the Krtkovci that was bought in the name of Michael Seselj is at the end of legalization. I think it's... Yes, it is, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I see you're following well, but you're not in the process. Yes, it is. The agency that does this has led to the end, but in any case it has been reported as all other illegal objects. Your problem is that this is the law of destruction and what you want to bring down. Do you know what you want to tear down? Because you want to tear down, first of all, the facilities around the airport in order to help your NATO friends to banish the Association of Serbian-Russian Friendships that is boned in your throat. That's your problem, but for nothing, Serbs love Russians, Serbs don't like Scott, they love him for nothing, you love a couple around you, but it's not worth it. You know, we're not gonna stop talking this way about you and your operation, and it's a good thing it's getting closer and closer to Alexander Vukic's attitudes and obviously it's somewhere in the phase to get you out of there.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47371	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47372	Mr Marinkovic, I really expected you as an economic expert and expert, because you appear very often in the early mornings on one television with a national frequency, talk about foreign interference, you are as early as I and all Serbian radicals, you talk about foreign companies, investments and the arrival of that capital in Serbia. You should have prevented this salvo of ugly and comments and attacks against the SRS by Mrs. Mihajlovic to explain to her that the company is not a state. So the state is the state, the company is the company. So, Mrs. Mihajlovic needs to know, and since we're going to do everything possible to avoid the final signing of the contract with the US company Bechtel, which is not the White House, which is not Donald Trump, for the uninformed lady to explain it to her, so it's not the same. We talked about the harmfulness of this contract in many countries, how they lobby. You know, they're doing business all over the world, and I really don't have time right now, and believe me, she's so irritated us with her behavior that we've carefully studied this company's business, not just here with us, which we would say, in the countries of the environment, but in the whole world, to explain some things to the lady. But here's the obvious thing. So she was brought through the US ambassador's insistence on this function to write and lobby for the contract. She'll be replaced in a few months. If there is a government reconstruction, if there are extraordinary parliamentary elections, they will be able to come to you here, probably, for coffee, or one of these will be adventurous colleagues and colleagues, or call her, or not invite her. But she would have to learn basics, elementary things when she talks to MPs who know a lot more, and who know why they're submitting amendments, and certainly they're not destroying intentions, as she is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47373	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Professor Zorana Mihajlović, has the right to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47374	Very short. Just one more reminder that Serbian citizens can hear nicely. You violated the Law of Planning and Construction, article 145, when you took care of this house from here. And that's where you broke the law. So when you're talking in this high house about laws, morality, honesty and respect for the law, then I guess you're the first one to follow the law. So, article 145, you did this without a building permit. That's one. As for the Americans, and so on, let me say once again, you've advocated Trump, you can see that here, and the American ambassador as well as any ambassador is appointed by the government of that country, means the American ambassador appointed by the U.S. Government, as is Russian and Chinese, etc. As far as the Russians are concerned, there are no better performers in the Railways than the Russian RGD with which we have contracts of about two billion dollars. So everything you're saying really doesn't work out for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47375	Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. I'd like to finish this circle of replicas. No, it's never gonna happen, and if I'm interested in listening to you and the vice president of the government, and it's really a debate... There's nothing left for me but to give a three-minute break in accordance with Article 112. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. You can't. I took a break. Please report after Nikola Savic. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic and MP Marina Ristic. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. Nikola Savic has a word. Call me when he's done. After the break, there are no Rules of Procedures, no replicas, no reports of a new one. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. It is. Explain to me when Nikola Savic is finished. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS insists this is a bad law that will produce a number of negative consequences for the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia itself. We need to be aware that construction products and overall construction operations are one of the most significant resources this country has. However, this law is brought under the pressure of the EU and who knows who else and all with the aim of devasting our construction operation and putting it in a subordinate position. This, of course, is nothing new. This has been done by all governments before you, and unfortunately in a much larger amount, those that aren't here right now. That's why they don't have what they did the way they did. So they destroyed our factories, our crops, our fields and everything else. So, Mrs. Mihajlovic, there can be no words here about any partner relationship that you want to show to the people's MPs and the public of Serbia. A partner relationship implies that the two sides in a process are equal. But here we have a situation that one side is completely subordinated, not to say, in a humiliating position and there can be no talking about a partner relationship. This here is too much like a colonial relationship to me. We in the SRS will never and at no cost agree to such a thing that Serbia is in such a subordinate position. And this government, and above all, your ministry doesn't realize that our resources from this and any other realm are a gift to God, but to all our citizens, not just for this or any government, that you can manage and give to anyone. If this practice continues, indeed this country and this society will not get far.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47378	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The word is Verica Radet, my injury to the Rules of Procedure after the speech of Nikola Savic. Let's hear it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47379	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 112 and 104. – abuse of both members who have just been applied and do not turn around now, read, I do not have time to deal with it. Read it and see what it says. You did not allow me to replicate earlier, to deny the lies of Zorana Mihajlovic. He says you built this house out of this house. So, this house in the Krtkovci, don't accidentally interrupt me, I see you're moving something, it hasn't been changed in the gauges. It's a nice facade, windows have been changed, if no one's told you. I would ask Zorana Mihajlović, because she did this very well to give it to us so that we could frame it. We need a party like that to put it on. Since you're saying it's illegal, it wouldn't be bad when you send a demolition team, so you can come personally to the Khrtkovci to tear it down. I ask you, Mrs. Mihajlović, who is responsible for all the facilities that have since 2015... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47380	Comrade Radeta, you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't ask the Deputy Prime Minister now. I can't allow chaos here. As much as you're vice president of the National Assembly and with all my respect and your knowledge and your work and everything and your party and the Parliament Club, I don't want to allow chaos here. Thank you. Keep going, you've got 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47381	Chaos says you do. Article 112 says you can interrupt the session if you cannot establish order regularly. Did anyone here beat anyone? Is there anyone here... What regular measure did you try? What kind of measure should it have taken to prevent you from allowing me to replicate Zorani Mihajlović, perhaps she would have followed me, so after her, if you are in a hurry, call Arsic, not because of these replicas, and you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47382	Thank you. I thought I'd call you for help, but you're active here now. Okay. You're right. Thank you. I'm just doing my job. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Yes) Good. Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go. On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47383	You asked me to answer. (President: He is right, counterpart Nikola Savic spoke. She has a right to say. He's got two minutes. Here you go. Nothing more. How now? Can't I say anything or can I just say part of it? (President: You may speak freely. ) As far as law enforcement is concerned, let's just remember, so from 1997 to November 2015, only 140,000 objects have been legalized and since November 2015, when the Law on Law of Law was passed by 2018, 183,000 objects have been passed, which is not enough and therefore we are changing the law. Who is responsible for a part of the objects that are built after the adoption of the Law on Law and which can not be subject to these amendments and additions to the Law, in any case, I would say much of the dissatisfaction of municipal inspections for that reason, or city inspections, for that reason, therefore, we have now sharpened the practical Law on Law. Once again, therefore, it really suggests whether it is a facade, whether the windows, whatever, all Serbian citizens know it, and you should know, you have violated the law, the 145th member of the Law on Planning and Construction. You were obliged to get permission for something like that. So it's not a bad intention, it's just a reminder that it has to be done,
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47384	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47385	No, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47386	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47387	Replica. It's not the amendment. It's the replica. Was she talking to me directly? So what? You're protecting the character and the act again? What's the matter with you? So, I speak, I answer very briefly to Zorani Mihajlovic. She's personally responsible for any illegal construction since the time she's been minister. Why did she let the inspections not work - she needs to answer? Why did she allow that there aren't enough inspectors - she needs to answer? Why did she let the inspectors be corrupt - she should answer? She can't transfer her responsibility to anyone else. As for the radical house, the house of Vojislav Seselj in Hrtkovci, Mrs. Mihajlović, run the procedure, come, crash, tear down the facade. Just please come in personally, when you send a team, come in personally. We'll host you nicely, don't be afraid, we're nice, we're good hosts, nice people, but we'd just like to see you in that place. The house in the Krtkovci is our pride. They'll give us a picture anyway. Soon there will be another house in Preshevo and so we, as far as we can, do such things. The house in Hrtkovci is under the law, i.e. legalisation, i.e. by obtaining a building permit, because this title of your law, which is otherwise the law of destruction, is so radical and there is no violation. You can talk now, convince the citizens I don't know what, go to the villages, visit the cities, go, send inspectors and bring everyone a solution to the demolition, where people do facades without asking permission. Who are they looking for? How do you get the licenses? To inform about the construction. I know better than you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I know better than you. But unfortunately, you're here and you're being asked as a matter of fact, but it's going to be a month or two, and you're going to be held by this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47388	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on construction products. In light of the bill's proposal, it says producers in the Republic of Serbia will not need much time to adapt to new conditions. With these, you deny yourself, because in this same explanation you say that the most help will be needed for small and micro-enterprises, especially in the field of education on the requirements of new regulations and on the preparation of documentation of factory product control. Furthermore, you say that in the process of providing assistance, the main word should lead the body to assess compliance, various associations with the active participation of the representatives of the state administration, such as market inspection and employees in the affairs of the adoption and preparation of technical regulations in this area. Do you realize how much administration it takes to honor all of this that you're talking about? According to this, all factories should put an end to production and commit themselves to studying and studying the regulations provided for by this law. I guess every factory's goal is to open up as much production and not to deal with regulations and their study. Here is another evidence that the SRS parliamentary group is right to insist on the shift of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47390	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47391	What I completely agree on is that it certainly is the goal of all our producers, first of all, being able to work. For the first time, factory control of construction products is introduced. This has never existed before, and it's one of the important features in that safety story. And, of course, the possibility that our companies can go to foreign markets as much as they can. Otherwise, we now have three designated bodies for grading and harmonising for steel. We have one named cement body. The costs of accreditation for appointed bodies exist among other things and now the costs of accreditation, therefore, it is normal that these costs will exist, but this is not a new imposition. That's something you saw among other things and in our preparation that we gave to all MPs and in the light of this law. We've put out how much these costs are, but I think the benefits that our construction industry gets above all and the manufacturers of construction products are also very large. This law was made with them, even on their initiative this law was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47392	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is the law on standardisation of construction products, and we have managed to reach the EU, Kosovo and Metohija, the negotiating process, to many of the topics that we have opened. I understand the political position of some political parties that are against Serbia's membership in the EU and that is completely understandable to me. It's their right, and I don't want to argue with them. However, whether harmonising our legislation with EU legislation and standardisation of certain products is harmful to Serbian citizens – I do not think so. There's already been a story about that. So, first of all, the Republic of Serbia is passing laws not because it is harmonising regulations with the EU, but because they are in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I heard it here now and some of my colleagues mentioning what counterpart Peter Byer said, I don't want to get too into it, I received it here at the National Assembly, that's not what he had. It's probably true that they passed on the paper. But now imagine what it would look like if on the first obstacle when you run the country you stopped and tried to find an easy way, or you gave up that path. Where would you go? Nowhere. We saw the easy roads that led us, both Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic and Sasa Jankovic, who is trying to guide you Bosko Obradović and the whole one click. These were easy ways for them, but for the citizens of Serbia they were not easy, but they were the hardest days they had in their lives. Serbia has never had an easy way through history. We always had to go the hard way. That is why Serbia has always had the need to lead statesmen who are strong and stable, to lead it safely and safely in the interest of both Serbia and its citizens, statesmen as strong as Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47394	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Ivana Nikolic has a word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47395	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on construction products, in order to further define the said member, which, among other things, states which construction products are subject to this law, which are classified in various areas and especially that part relating to the products to be used in the construction of the transport infrastructure. I stress this, because a law like this is necessary, given that Serbia is a country in which traffic infrastructures are built and traffic integration stands out as a priority and where there are many projects that are yet to be implemented. That responsible leadership, implementing the Serbian Progressive Party programme really works that way, we make sure year after year, passing through these beautiful traffickers. We're all passengers, we're all users of various kinds of traffic, starting with road, rail, water, telecommunications and postal. And only those who do not want Serbia's citizens, who are looking for a chance at personal wealth, can say that is not the case. In addition to personal confidence in the functioning of traffic, in addition to personal assurances of the use of existing infrastructure, in addition to reports by relevant institutions, along with data we have talked about in the previous days, since this debate takes place, we also have confirmation of the way Serbia is on and how responsible it is. The reports, namely the proposal for a negotiating position of the Republic of Serbia for an intergovernmental conference on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, specifically for Chapter 21 concerning trans-European networks and Chapter 14 – the transport policy, which the government recently adopted, speak of earlier this month. Therefore, the responsible work of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, the work of the Government and President Aleksandr Vukic, and the fact that this is directed in the interests of citizens, says statistics, figures and it is best confirmed on the ground. That's what some people are really trying to argue with in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47396	Thank you. The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47397	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues, the provisions of this law certainly encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the man most responsible for Serbia's economic progress and its closest team of co-workers are exposed to the most brutal attacks by those who call themselves the Alliance for Serbia. Just because they left the congregation hall today doesn't mean that there are no other insults they've made to his account. A folk letter asked the president to finish a sentence whose beginnings they invented and whose beginning is what they would have wanted to be the beginning of that sentence. And their leader and their leader, Zeljko Veselinovic, also has the beginning and end of the sentence, which reads: "Well, dear ficus prime minister, I want you to be locked up once by the same Mitrovica in the Association in four walls, without a key, with one gifted African-American, just released from prison and that show of the people watching for a few months, so that I can see if after that it would defend the worst country scum." Then they talked about diplomats. As long as they are represented by the man who wrote this, this sentence, which has its beginning and end, will be an integral part of their diploma. So when they carried 2000 from this congregation to their house paintings and works of art into this congregation, they couldn't bring home basic home education, and we need to ask ourselves who we're dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47398	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47399	The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special focus on improving the business climate. The law will be an additional incentive to develop construction and will allow building facilities to be safe and environmentally acceptable. So 1,200 different construction products built in Serbia, such as doors, windows, construction blocks, water pipes, will finally be clearly declared, which has not been the case so far. Krupanj municipality was completely destroyed at the time of the catastrophic floods in 2014, dead. By the great pawn of our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, life has been restored to that place. Never in the history of any place has any of the statesmen visited Krupanj so many times in a few months 13 times, as our current president did. Worked and built day and night. They've been rescheduled, i.e. built roads that were destroyed, bridges, waterways, sanitized rinks and damaged facilities, ambulances, reconstructed home of health, built 29 residential buildings, renovated road Krst-Korenita-Krupanj, in the length of 11 km, paved road of LJubovija-Krupanj in the length of 17.8 km, renovated dam on the Jalovišta mine of Stolica. This creates a more favourable business climate in the city. Thanks to our president, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, Turkish companies Gjinsi arrived in Krupanj, which at the facility of the former factory Krupanjka, opened a production plant and hired 150 workers, mostly women, who have no problem with their employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47400	Thank you, colleague Grubor. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Igor Becic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47401	The problem of not paying compensation for construction land, which we talked about during this debate, and which is now over 27 billion dinars, requested by the Building Land and Construction Directorate, was of course related to the period 2004 to 2013. The fact is that, not only in Krupanj and other places that we talked about today, but also in Belgrade, things are quite different until the moment when the yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas and the camels around him are no longer asked. So, after 2013 that problem was solved. A fair and responsible city government, which has been delegated by the SNS, has resolved the issue by introducing bank guarantees and mortgages as mandatory instead of pointless, practically no guarantees in the form of certain bonds for natural persons. From that moment on, no single dinar has become controversial on that basis. Not only that, a significant part of those funds that Gilas and his business partners have denied citizens of Belgrade, we have managed to attract to the city's register, so to speak, by offering appropriate programmes to still make the payments. When I say Dragan Gilas, you all know who I mean. I think of a man who has enough money to be able to lend loans of six million, such as the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, to support him in his insubordinations, to support today when he wants to arrest and shut down journalists, when he wants to shut down the media, take away their licenses, take away their work licenses, and somehow by the rule, it seems to him where we don't have a business interest, or where he doesn't expect any profit. The Pink TV, on which it relys these days, otherwise, you know, didn't even touch it until the moment it had its own share. Now he's gone, so he can do anything he can think of. This man, as they discussed modernization, announced Belgrade's modernisation. So, in addition to Miskovic's time, called "The Time of Belgrade", beautiful colorful pictures, but what is the problem with them? It's just that they're pictures. The image from that supplement is an announcement of modernization, I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. The fountain in Slavia looks very much like today, with this one just drawn, and today it exists. And today, when it is worth 1.8m, which they say is expensive, they do not dispute that they themselves announced, at the time, that it will be worth 27m euros in one year and another eight million next year. It wasn't expensive back then, no. Then it was soil and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47402	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47403	I cannot help but point out that since you mentioned Belgrade and above all in several previous reports, the number of building permits issued on Belgrade's territory and compared to everything that happened during Dragan Gilas. Let me remind you, let's just say, that on the Vozdovac municipality they tried, in part, only to do, a secondary sewerage network, Zuce, then Pinosava, spent 10m euros, without a building permit, without a tender, without wastewater treatment devices. They practically forced the citizens of these places and parts of the Leaders to sign contracts at 250,000 dinars. So it's just an example of how the whole territory of Belgrade was done. So, everything they did, they worked mostly illegally and worked mostly without any tender, so they bargained with any performers, spent money, and practically Belgrade citizens didn't get what they needed for a normal, normal life. That's what Dragan Gilas was doing, as mayor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47404	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47405	So far, we have heard various concerns about infrastructure projects, about rail infrastructure, about road infrastructure, about building permits, about legalisation. We of the SNS have been making arguments that support the results of this government when it comes to it. I would just for the sake of the citizens point out a few facts when it comes to the sector "South" Corridor 10. So from Grabovnica to Levosoje, which is divided into 12 newly designed shares, lotes, total length 74.2 square kilometers, which together with the previously started share from Levosoje to the border with Macedonia, is a total of 95.7 km of highway. In addition to the construction of the highway, an alternative parallel non-payment road was built, about 35km in length, as a reconstruction or construction of a new road, depending on the conditions of design. From Grabovnica to Levosoja all 107 bridges and overpasses of a total length of about 9.4 kilometers were built, five traffic loops of Grdelica-Vladičin Han-Vranje-Bujanovac 1-Bujanovac 2, while the loop Predejana was built in the final phase of construction. Here's what it looks like, the Grabovnica-Grape stock. Length 5.6 works completed, shares released in public traffic on 11 April 2016. Two, Throat-Tunnel Predejane, lot 1, length 6.1, grade 93%. At the end of 2018, shares were planned to be released in public traffic, along with all six shares through the Grdelička gorge. Under three, Predejana tunnel, lot 3, construction works completed, late 2018, along with all six shares through the Gredile ravine. Now in order not to read all this data, I think it's clear to everyone that the results are in favor of what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47406	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word is by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47407	It's just a little supplement like the sumarum of what you said. So, in their time, the Gredile ravine - zero percent execution rate. Zero. So, nothing. So there was nothing, earthwork, nothing. Today it is 98.99%, waiting for the end of this year for Serbian citizens to pass through Corridor 10, which they did not finish, which we end, from north to south to east.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47408	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47409	Dear Chairman, the honourable Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, I would like to join the amendment of my colleague's previous speaker. I want as someone who comes from the profession to comment on these amendments and additions to the law, especially as a member of the Chamber of Commerce and the Engineering Chamber of Serbia, to agree with you, Minister, that we should pass the law and arrange this area. We all know that the term of office expired last May, that the elections were not held, that they only realized that he had suspended the mandate of the president of the chamber and that he had some leadership left, or that I think the Vice-President of the Management Board, or whatever it is called, remained there, signing licenses. That should also be seen if these licences are valid. I agree with you that we need to take care of this area. I don't agree with any of my colleagues, whether they're ruling or from the opposition, who said we were elected here, that the people chose us to take care of the chambers of commerce. A lot of MPs aren't from this area, so they can't be involved and they don't know the work of every chamber, but I, as a man who is a member of this chamber and who comes from this profession, support the amendment and addition of the Chamber of Commerce Act. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, we Socialists also support the Law on Law and these amendments and I as a person coming from that area. Enough words these days, especially from the opposition MPs, that there are plenty of cases that have not been solved. Here, I'll tell you, while DS was running the Department of Construction and we were also in power, I didn't agree with Oliver Dulic about a lot of these things, I even went personally into conflict with them about it, your associates who were then together at the Ministry know that the Law on Legalization was then passed, where anyone who built an illegal facility to do a project, to pay for the communals, to pay for everything and to legalize the facility. It really started at the beginning, people were coming to municipalities, which in the secretariats to legalise their facilities, but it happened that elections were called and then, due to petty political points, Oliver Dulic stood up to say in all media that legalisation would be free of charge. Since then, Minister, I'm sure your ministry staff and those who work in the Secretariat and the municipalities have no longer shown up. You know, when you tell the people that something is going to be free, they all expect it, and that's why we have a lot of objects, both in local self-governments and in the Ministry and in the secretariats. I supported this law on law enforcement and legalization, and we as a party, but I want to tell you, as a man who comes from the profession, that we should work to pass a comprehensive law, whether we're going to baptize him as legislation, legalization or anything. For example, if one man did his home, house, building or anything, made the project, got permission, paid the utility, all of it, next to him the same someone did all that, but illegally, to pass the law how he would pay the same amount he paid for this, how much he paid for what he did legally, plus to see him pay some fine that was because he was doing it illegally. This is the law we should all be doing. We socialists are at your service if we need to help and add something, but it would be a fair solution. This crash thing is going to be tough, we all know, first because the companies we're calling for are not responding to these tenders, secondly, it's hard to take down something. Let's try to get everything that can, that objects that aren't under the power lines, that aren't on land that's in the interest of the state, whether there's going to be highways, railways, protected areas, that we really take these objects down, and these objects that can stay, that we legalize it, and that normal people are going to pay for it, and that we need to do a comprehensive law on legalization. So we would stop further wild construction. Now, if we as a government, it doesn't matter if we're in local self-government or the ministry, let someone build a house downtown, how do we take it down? Everyone's going to ask us what you're looking at, why you haven't stopped, and there's a way to stop building on the very basis of the building, because the building is being built, it's not being built in one day, it's going to stop. We'll do it with the police. This tape thing, we see for ourselves, it's not working. People put up tapes, get criminal charges, he pays the opportunity, the facility stays and we're in trouble. That's why I, as a man who comes from a construction profession, who's only been dealing with this problem for 30 years, advise you, since my party is also in power, to pass a comprehensive law and to once stand in the way of wild construction and legalize what can be legalized. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47410	The word is from the vice president of Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47411	Thank you for your attitude, otherwise, the criteria, first of all, this is the Law of Law, first of all, not the law of destruction. Unfortunately, there are also those who have done so in such a way that unfortunately because of public interest they will have to be torn down, but the criterion, when it comes to it, is primarily the degree of public interest endangerment. You know exactly what the criterion is when we're talking about destruction itself. When you talk about who's going to tear down because it was really organized in the previous period in a way that the municipalities, the cities have to first provide money in their budget, and then dissipate public calls, so that companies that are going to be doing it with the appropriate mechanisms appear, and that was really quite complicated. The municipalities themselves often seemed to incur no money for such a thing, but to do something else, but there's no money for all of it, and then it's just a problem. Sometimes the inspection comes out, that the solution, sees that something based on real, can't, because it's supposed to have no money. Now it's regulated a little bit differently by these amendments and additions to the law. So, all utility companies, public enterprises, military operations, everyone can participate in this destruction if the city or the municipality hires them. No more, no more money, just businesses that are urban or municipal can do that. The city of Belgrade, as far as I know and as far as I'm concerned, has already agreed with the Ministry of Defence, so military operations will take part in the work. When we talk about nature parks, the Ministry has been forced to tear down 78 or 79 objects in the past few years, because you can't build in the first belt of protection, because it's not a question of our future generations. These are the things that have to be solved. When we talk about the price of legalization and why we even started this law a few years ago, that's exactly what it was. One of the basic problems of people was that they couldn't get a building permit and that's why they were working illegally. A lot of them cost a building permit and everything they were supposed to do, so they also did illegal work. We've solved these problems, reduced them to the lowest possible extent, provided building permits, and anyone who wants to can build them in one legal way. The others, who have done this in an illegal manner, and are jeopardizing the public interest, that means they are on the waterway, on the subway route, so they are on the highway itself, they cannot simply expect their house, building, apartment to remain legal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47412	Thank you, Vice President. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Compirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47413	I thank the chairman. Honored Vice Presidents with my team, dear MPs, I submit an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on construction products, paragraph 5, reads: "The application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the increase in economic exchange. “ Serbia is investing a lot in roads today, not only in highways, but also in not categorized roads, because only building roads can lead to the opening of factories, the employment of young people. The minister and her team end the highways, the shares are being built, the Belgrade-Surcin road section is promising to be built in the length of nine kilometers, as well as Surcin-Obrenovac by the end of 2020, Obrenovac-Preljina and Preljina-Požega. All of this will contribute greatly to the economic development of this part of Serbia. Building roads, bridges and law-making will establish a system, provide safe construction products, which are built into buildings, ensuring the safety, security of the facilities. Also, it's built on the KIM premises. It is also done by this government and our president, who on his visit to KIM on 8 and 9 September and invested much in building this space, invested in the reconstruction of Lake Brana Gazivod, invested in KBC Mitrovica, in the construction of the adaptation of Trepce, in the construction of roads. All this is evidence that Serbia lives in these areas of KIM and that the opposition knows that we are there, thanks to our president and our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47414	National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47415	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the extraordinary economic results achieved first by the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandra Vukic, and then by Ana Brnabic, are seen primarily in the continued growth of GDP year-on-year, in order to be 4.8% in the first half of 2018, low inflation of about 2%, surplus in the budget, instead of planned deficits, reducing unemployment, increasing foreign trade by about 10% in the same period last year, increasing pensions and earnings. These results have created a maneuvering space to increase investment in all spheres, including an increase in public investment that is a priority. Namely, the realisation of public investment will be around 3.5% of GDP in 2018, and I am sure that in 2019 it will be around 4%. In doing so, it should be pointed out that most of the public investment will go on the main roads and rail routes. In road infrastructure, most of the increase would refer to speeding up the construction of K11 and bypasses around Belgrade, and in the railway infrastructure to increase the work started, on the Belgrade-Budapest track and reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line. Such investment would improve the structure of public expenditure, give a fiscal incentive to accelerate economic growth and lay the basis for the necessary achievement of the medium-term public investment level of around 5% of GDP, which is the appropriate goal for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47416	The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47417	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia's 2012 decision to pay great attention to investment in travel infrastructure has given this country the first hint that the country will develop. Roads and bridges have always been the most important link, the link that connects. A link that marks a new cycle of opening opportunities, i.e. a new potential. If we stop for a moment and look at the map of Serbia and the entire road infrastructure we've built, the projects that are under way and the ones we've been planning, we really have something to be proud of. Behind all these results is the serious work of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you as a resolute ministry, but above all, the work of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. That's our argument. We are building and developing this country, and very responsiblely taking care of public finances. The work has won and won. Serbia is stable, stronger than ever and will continue to strengthen. What we all, whose roads lead to Belgrade, are eager to expect, is the end of the bypass around Belgrade and the removal of transit traffic from the Serbian capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47418	National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47419	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 to further point out the importance of adopting this law for Serbia's comprehensive development. The current legal framework that regulates this area creates certain obstacles to the free movement of goods, and thus creates certain obstacles to Serbia's comprehensive development. Serbia has become a major construction site today. In Belgrade alone, we have about 10,000 construction sites where a huge number of people are employed and this must continue, as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's goal and the government's goal is to make Serbia a modern and developed country. The aim of the management of the town of Leskovec, led by the SNS, is to make Leskovac a modern and developed city and that is why today Leskovac, as well as the whole of Serbia, is a major construction site. By November 2012, since the SNS was in power in Leskovac, so in six years, over 70 streets have been paved in Leskovac. In 70 streets, a water network that was old in some streets for up to five decades has been replaced. It's built eight kilometers of sewers. It's been reconstructed 20 kilometers of sidewalks and built in. Almost all schools have been renovated. There's no department in a general hospital where there's no major investment. All cultural institutions have been renovated. All that I have stated is in direct connection with this law, because the adoption of this law will allow us to have a better quality of material that is being built into roads and other objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47420	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47421	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A respected minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, construction is a roof business branch, providing facilities and infrastructure for all other industries. Developed and quality infrastructure is the basis for the development of each municipality. The population in Baja Basta is extremely grateful to the government of the Republic of Serbia on the renewed route of the Bajina Basta-Rogačić road of 9.6 km, as well as on the construction of shares in Kaludjerska bars of 1.6 km. This way I would ask you to consider the possibility of realising the construction of the road that connects us with the municipality of Kosjerić, since Bajina Basta and Kosjerić are the only municipalities that are not connected by asphalt road. It is the regional road of Bajina Basta-Kostojevici-Warda-Kosjeric, where it is necessary to do another 5 km of road in the area of Bajina Basta municipality. After two decades, as far as the road is concerned, it was done, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, 1.5km on the territory of the municipality of Kosjeric, and the rest is on the territory of the municipality of Bajina Basta. Realisation of this project would fully link Divcibara and Tara, Cementar and the Milic mine, to the link between Koseric and Republika Srpska, as well as Bajina Basta with the railway. The area known for the production of raspberries would come to life and locals could live off their work. It should also be noted that there are over 200 children in the Jake and Varda area, a huge potential for the future to be maintained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47422	I thank my colleague Lukic. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47423	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, with proposals like this, it is clear that Serbia is on the right track, making progress in construction and economics, while of course maintaining a healthy economy. We inherited the destroyed land where the factories were shut down. The big industrial centers were closed, and the people were out of work and no hope of ever getting better. The south of Serbia has been completely destroyed. Nothing was done and nothing was invested in. Here, today we heard the President of the Republic who said that Leskovac and Vranje had deficits inherited from the previous period of about 20m euros individually, and Zajecar of 13m euros and now the government of the Republic of Serbia will help with 50m euros to keep these cities' budgets stable. We have succeeded in attracting foreign investment and developing the economy, stabilising public finances. We've cut public debt. We've reduced the unemployment rate from almost 30% to about 11%. Minimum earnings increased by 42%, from around 160 euros in 2012 to 230 euros, as expected to be on January 1st next year. The state makes apartments for security forces. As all segments are affected by the development of construction, I call on my colleagues and colleagues to support this set of laws from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47424	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll continue where I left off. The government of the Republic of Serbia is extremely committed to the development of all parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including, of course, KIM. I was talking about how much it was done when it came to traffic, road and rail infrastructure on KIM. I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has renovated the House of Culture of Gracanica, the House of Culture of Gjilana, the House of Culture of Stara Kolasin and the House of Culture Donja Gusterica. Also, when it comes to churches and monasteries at KIM, 170 projects related to the work and survival of 43 monasteries and churches on KIM have been funded. The works of St. Cyril and Methodius in Prizren, the Gracanica monastery, the High Decani and the Holy Archangels in Prizren are particularly important, as well as in the Banjska monastery. The total value of the works is close to 200 million dinars. Also, major investments by the Serbian state are also in terms of health care at KIM and the health care of the Serb people who remained there on their centuries-old hearths. Thanks to investments by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Health Centre in Kosovo Mitrovica has been transformed into a Clinical and Hospital Centre. Departments of Oncology, Pulmology, breast department were renovated, began with the work of scanners, two of the most modern sanitary vehicles and state-of-the-art medical equipment were purchased. For these purposes, nearly 30 million dinars have been allocated. Also, some entirely new health facilities have been opened at KIM. That's where I think of the infirmary in the village of Pascian. Then, a new health facility was built. Missing medical equipment and home appliances have been obtained and for the ambulances in the House of Health in Peća. This is another evidence, along with what the lady minister said, that the state of Serbia and how it is present at KIM, among other things, as you can see, a very important investment in infrastructure, in culture, spirituality and health care for Serbs and other non-Albanians, as well as Albanians living in KIM, because they are also citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47426	National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Nenad Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47427	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law governing the area of construction products to which this law applies. In order to ensure standardisation of construction products and safety on the market, only by placing on the market construction products which are suitable for use, i.e. they have characteristics that allow the facilities in which they are built to meet the essential requirements. This law contains technical and other requirements that ensure the protection of human life and health, the protection of animals, plants and the environment, the protection of consumers and other users and the protection of the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of all investors. What I would mention is certainly the reconstruction of the railway line Nis – Presevo, the section Vranjska Banja – Ristovac – Bucharest, where before the reconstruction of this section trains moved 20 kilometers per hour, and after the reconstruction of this section the speed of trains was increased to over 100 kilometers per hour. This has increased the number of passengers in passenger traffic, but what is also important is that the transport of goods to Serbia's railways is increased which will certainly affect the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I call on my fellow MPs to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47428	Thank you, colleague Mitrovica. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47429	Thank you for your support. Not only do we invest in railway infrastructure, in particular this part of Vranjska Banja – Ristovac, but on all the shares where we reconstruct the railway infrastructure, we also put new train furniture. So new trains and new locomotives and I think it's important. Also, the railway infrastructure has begun to reconstruct its own resources in some of the foreign locomotives, and I think it is also significant. So, new trains and new railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47430	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Slavisa Bulatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47431	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, on Article 3, I propose an amendment in the sense of adding the 5th position -- the application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the increase in investment in the economy. When we talk about the overall development of the state, today thanks to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure special attention is given to the development of the Pcinj County and Vranj. Of all the projects this ministry is implementing, the most important outcome of Corridor 10 is certainly for the development of the South. However, besides Corridor, with the help and support of your ministry, many other projects are being implemented. For example, in 2017, a pipeline of raw water was built from the accumulation of Prvonek in Vranjska Banja in the length of four kilometers, and the total value of these works was about seven million euros. In addition to reconstruction of railway stations in Vranjska Banja and Vranj, two other projects worth 14.3m euros started to be realized this year, building a wastewater treatment plant and building a collection of fecal sewers from Vranjska Banja to Vranja, whose construction solves the problem of waste water in Vranjska Banja, which is one of the basic preconditions for the development of tourism in this town. Speaking of Vranjska Banja, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, I want to thank you on behalf of the citizens of Vranjska Banja for your promise, as of Saturday, when you were our guest for the fourth time in the last two years and promised a bridge for the local local community of Korbevac and thus we solved the many-year problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47432	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47433	Respected Prime Minister, respected Deputy Prime Minister, respected Serbian citizens, I am taking the opportunity to praise, on behalf of the citizens of Sapca and Pocerina and the whole part of Western Serbia, which includes Sabac and Loznica with municipalities, on the one hand, the engagement of the ministry. And, a great gratitude for the reconstruction of the Shabac – Loznica railway, which, after 70 years, finally, someone separated the funds and did the reconstruction. Believe it or not, a 13-year-old passenger train hasn't traveled from Capac to Loznica. So, 13 years later, it's the first time a passenger train has a speed of 80 kilometers per hour. By the time the railway was reconstructed, trains ranged from 10 to 30 kilometers, which is a data that tells enough how much the previous period did not invest in the infrastructure from the railway to all other infrastructures that was the breadth of the housewives of all citizens. What is very important only in this year, this ministry has allocated funds for a trip between Bucharest and Lower Montenegro, linking two municipalities, the municipalities of Sabac and the municipalities of Koceljev, in the length of fivekm. The road of Krinaj – Tekeris also connects two municipalities, the Municipality of Sabac and the municipality of Loznica. It is now under way to build a road that will connect several Poceran villages, on a move from Romania through the Courtyard to Milosevic, roads that show that this particular government is trying to achieve even development in the right sense and apply those words throughout Serbia and that roads are done where necessary. And the local administration of the town of Sapca, which for 18 years has not built half of what the government of the Republic of Serbia has done in just one year for the Municipality of Sabac and the villages belonging to the municipality, shows only that this government will and can help all who need help. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47434	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague of David's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47435	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with collaborators, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, responsible government work and our President, Alexander Vukic, an economy ahead of bankruptcy in 2012, characterised by a stagnation of growth, high unemployment, high public debt and deficit in the budget, has transformed into a growing economy with low and stable inflation ranging from about 2% on average in the last five years. With a stable currency, the dinar strengthened by 4.9% compared to the euro in 2017. The unemployment rate is 11.9%. Robbery privatisation before 2012 left 400,000 people out of work. The Serbian Progressive Party is hiring people today. From day to day new factories are being opened in all parts of our country. The public debt then fell by more than 10% of GDP in 2017, and the reduction continued in 2018, so the public debt moves below 60% of GDP. When we talk about GDP, it significantly exceeded expectations in the first half of the year by a growth of 4.9% thanks to investment growth and investment in the construction sector. Economic growth, with better efficiency of tax collection, responsible public expenditure policy and a reduction of public debt, will allow the government to increase investment and further improve the country's infrastructure. An inflow of foreign direct investment of about 2.6 billion euros is expected in the current year. Reforms in the construction sector made it possible to issue construction permits faster, leading to a doubling of the number of permits issued and the growth of the share of construction in GDP. Today there are over 33,000 construction sites in Serbia. It invests in reconstruction and construction of new roads, then invests in the reconstruction of a railway in which it has not invested for more than 40 years. It is a policy implemented by the SNS, a policy that takes care of its citizens to provide them with better living conditions. The SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47436	Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47437	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government with their associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, since some have advocated here today, have requested some apologies, I would like to say that we have no intention of apologizing for opening a factory in the Kingdom, where 2,500 workers will be employed. We have no intention of apologizing for providing new jobs throughout Serbia, both for women at the beginning of their careers and for women in the Middle Ages. We have no intention of apologizing because official statistics show over 200,000 new jobs across Serbia more than in their time. I have no intention of apologizing either for the numerous newly opened factories in my Nis, nor for the new Clinical Center, nor for the numerous infrastructure projects and reconstructions and health institutions and home health care of anyone, or even for those who might come here and stand in front of the bench to interfere with my work, to pull a microphone, to throw a stone at me, to twist my arms, to make me bruises on my hands, to call for rape, to hang. Perhaps if we were hanged as they call for violent acts when it comes to both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, they might want to do the same to us. They need to understand that we're not afraid of them, and they should have finally figured it out in this time. As far as the law on construction products is concerned, that's all I'm saying. Before November 2015, there were about 30,000 cases in the legalisation process, as was then called, and so far, 45,500 objects have been registered under the Law of Law. The town of Nis was declared the fourth in Serbia-wide census at a conference in the Serbian government on 15 March 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47438	Thank you. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47439	Thank you, Chairman. I don't like to talk much about the past, and I don't like those who are short-lived. It is mostly short-term memories of those who are also short-minded, and these gentlemen were able to bring down the financial system and the economy of Serbia. In the sea of the companies that have shut down, it is "Begey", a grain shipyard. On October 20th 2018, during the SNS government's mandate, a company called Rubicon opened in Zrenjanin in the same place as the former Begej. It's a 1.6m-euro investment. We will have the honour that Minister Mihajlovic will open the company and thus mark the continuation of the works on the highway bypass around Zrenjanin, which is 3.7 kilometers long, which will contribute to the transport in our city, because it will move it from the city streets, and thus the bypass will gain great importance because it will help communicate with the industrial zone. It's an investment, gentlemen, more than 423 million dinars. These are the additional reasons why I will support a set of laws that are on the agenda and will be at the polls on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47440	Thank you, colleague Janošević. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47441	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on construction products where I have proposed that item 5 be added, all with the aim of further defining Article 3 of this Act. The construction sector is an engine for the development of the entire industry. It triggers job creation in other sectors of the economy, such as production, transport, trade and financial services. The construction sector is also the basis for the growth of the processing industry. By signing a contract with the construction industry, the government directly affects the development of infrastructure related to the development of health, transport, as well as the education sector. So for the prosperity of any country, including ours, the construction industry is of great importance. The role of the construction industry is to build the necessary infrastructure. No country can advance without the necessary infrastructure. Only when the country's territory is covered by a satisfactory network of roads, an electric network, a water network, a pipeline will investors have a greater incentive to invest in the area, only then will new factories be opened, only then will there be a reduction in unemployment. If that was our government, the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized we can see by the number of factories that have been opened in the last six years. For that they have support, not only here in the Assembly, but also in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47442	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47443	Over half a million expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH live in Serbia, in part from Slovenia and over 200,000 expelled Serbs and other non-Albanians from the KIM area. Of this, more than 20,000 refugee families have yet to address one of the key issues in the integration process, which is the issue of housing. It is well-known to the public of Serbia that the so-called "Second" has been conducted for many years. Regional housing programme implemented by two state institutions – Commissioner for Refugees and Migration and Project Management Unit or JUP with the support of numerous international donors. Unfortunately, in the past few years, practice has shown that the regional housing programme is being implemented very slowly, and in one part and very unskilled with numerous remarks by the users themselves. The main objective of this programme is that its completion should not leave any refugee family in sub-optimal status or family living in non-human conditions and help all these refugee families resolve their housing issues through four visions: building apartments; building houses for those who have their place; buying rural estates and assigning packages of building material to those families who have started building their own houses, but unfortunately they cannot finish them financially themselves. So, my appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to send a clear message to these two state institutions, therefore, to the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration and the Project Management Unit, that in the coming period, the maximum, professional ones are responsible for solving refugee families' problems and that finally refugee families, after 23, 25, 28 years, can say that they are on their own and have resolved the key issue of integration, which is the issue of housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47444	Thank you. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47445	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, with associates, dear fellow MPs, the adoption of the Construction Products Act will help us to better regulate the construction product market. We'll also raise the level of quality materials used to build our roads, our hospitals, our buildings, our bridges, everything we've missed in the previous period. Also, a more favourable price will be provided for investors, thus increasing the competitiveness of producers. The quality control of the building material will also be introduced so that it will never happen to us again, for example. in Belgrade, bad, failed projects. Take, for example. A model of The Terrace in New Belgrade. There was only enough wind to blow this miracle of the unseen Dragan Gilas all over the place and become everything that wasn't bombed out. It has been announced, to remind you, that it will be a tourist attraction, a place that will attract all domestic and foreign investors. It wasn't. It was enough to blow a slightly stronger wind and simply be an unsecured scaler in the seat of New Belgrade itself. The reconstruction of King Alexander's boulevards, too. They cut the canvass, put in non-safe plates that were quickly, unqualityly made, from the use of the beads, "Pazlgrad" on Vozdovac, underground containers and many others. We had the most expensive bridge in the whole world – Bridge on Ada Giganlia. It is all about all those failed projects by Dragan Gilas and the Alliance for the Destroying of Belgrade and Serbia, which are the only ones who aim to return to their chairs and rule this country again. It's really the last line. Part of the opposition has been attacking you all day that your only goal is to take pictures. I come from the township of Rakovica and I can testify on the results of your ministry's work, the results of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is never again invested in the township of Rakovica, as it is now invested. It hasn't been invested in the past 40 years as much as it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47446	Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47447	A tourniquet was built, a Belgrade railway node was modernised. We have functional modern stripes, platform, track tracks. Others took pictures on the Belgrade bypass. We're finishing it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47448	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47449	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, a discussion that is under way about this law in particular, where we are practically and refer to the most significant infrastructure projects in the regions, cities where we come from, can say that something that was definitely not the case with previous authorities. In fact, Serbia has indeed become a major construction site and never, I would say, even in the history of this country, this way has not been approached by solving problems not only in this area, but in general. I'm not talking about the highway, because this topic has already been exploited, but because of its significance, it really had one of the most important places in my discussion. I'm going to talk about a business zone that should definitely become a engine for the development of the Toplice County. What is very important is that this economic zone, for which the country, which is to become an industrial zone, has already been resolved by the government, decided at a cabinet session held in Prokuplje, the country has been transferred to the property of the municipality of Prokuplje. What's important is that the planned industrial zone needs to be spaced on a surface of 16.5 hectares, it needs to be parcelled on seven parcels, seven pieces. What's very important is that the plan is that in this particular zone more areas of economy should be represented, just because we're going to put out the whole unemployment in Toplička County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47450	Thank you, colleague Laketić. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Dr Mihajlo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Professor Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47451	Dear Minister, to express my satisfaction that I have agreed with your assistant or state secretary, Mr. Ilic, that the problem of Valjevo Airport, or Divci, should be solved for the benefit of the state. So it's not to be an untapped resource. Construction is a very grateful business branch. Of the four summaries that form GDP, construction increases three, and can increase the fourth that represents the difference between imports and exports. What am I up for? For professional personnel, let me continue that discussion I started in the first amendment. We don't have enough expert personnel. In order to have enough professional personnel, I repeat, dual education at a higher percentage must enter construction, into the construction profession. Those who have a construction profession within one class must have more departments. Why? To make class more professional. On the other hand, they need to equip those schools that train personnel from the construction profession. Schools must be helped to get the first initial knowledge students in cabinets, as students in dual education cannot acquire knowledge outside of school in the first term, perhaps in the first grade. After the first semester, after the first grade, they are already in the position of earning income, i.e. income, etc., and are already starting to work. All of this should work in the form of student cooperatives, and the student association is made up of both students and teachers and parents and student cooperatives to help the material status and schools and educational workers and students be on a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47452	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47453	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The esteemed Minister with Associates, fellow MPs, when we talk about the importance of the proposed law, we must note that without the legal arrangement of this area it is not possible to develop construction as a complex activity that involves different services and processes, as well as the installation of finished products into the facility, with the final result of a product that should satisfy the prescribed basic requirements in each respect. Construction in a strategic sense is one of the most important industries because it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories and whether it is necessary to mention in 2012 the state of the economy of Serbia, in which the economy could also be the economy after the most shameful robbery privatisation, the devastated economy, the ruined economy, the destroyed economy, the state of debt slavery. But with the responsible policy of the Republic government, Serbia began to change, to move forward one step at a time. It is this responsible government policy that has also led to an extraordinary financial result that has strengthened macroeconomic and financial stability in the previous period leading to a reduction in unemployment and GDP growth. Newly opened factories, hundreds of thousands of new jobs, dozens of major infrastructure facilities are the result of the work of the current but also of the previous Republic government. Knowing that the construction sector is the main driver of Serbia's economic growth and that it is in the construction sector that the largest real growth of gross added value is clearly my desire to amend the proposed Construction Products Act to contribute to strengthening and maintaining the stability of the financial system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47454	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Here is my colleague Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47455	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, of course proposed the Construction Products Act and all other SNS laws in the voting day will support it. I must first refer to one of the remarks we heard today from these MPs of the opposition that came in ten, 15 minutes, which just referred to the Construction Products Act, which, as a remark, stated that construction products would not be controlled. I have to say that they didn't read the Construction Products Act because if they read it, they'd see that construction products are controlled from the moment of production to the moment of installation. So at all stages of construction, construction products are controlled precisely for quality. I must point out that for the increased economic exchange of construction products, it is a very important transport infrastructure. I must point out that since 2014, Serbia has been building on highways, rebuilding and reconstructing railway infrastructure, but I must point out that it is very much investing in water traffic that is very significant in EU countries. For the first time in 30 years, 210m euros were allocated in water traffic. I must point out that a water traffic strategy has been adopted, and what I particularly want to point out is the construction of Luke Smederev and the construction of a cargo terminal, whose volume of goods will be five million tons. I must also point out the construction of the train station Mala Krsna-Smederevo-Luka Smederevo, which will also give great importance to economic development. I also expect that the continuation of Corridor 11, as far as road traffic is concerned, which is due to reach Požega next year, will contribute to the development of this end of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47456	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Fired Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47457	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister with associates, unlike some times when nothing was being built and when everything we had, when the army was being destroyed, violated national identity, is now in reverse thanks to this ruling majority and this government. Today, highways, railways are being built in Serbia, a strong infrastructure is being created that is a prerequisite for new investment and new jobs. And there are many such examples in our country. I'll list only some of the municipalities of Palilu, from which I come. The Zemun-Borca Bridge was built, a bypass to Panchev and thus reduced travel time from Banat to Srem, reduced congestion in the city centre, noise, harmful gases and positively affected traffic safety. What's very important is that several more major investments have been announced along with this car accident. Namely, in Ovca, where this bypass passes, 2,000 subsidized apartments will be built for members of the security service, and right next to Pupin's bridge will be built an industrial park of friendship with China at 320 hectares. There is an announcement of the arrival of over a thousand of the largest technological giants and where about 10,000 of our scientists, engineers and innovators will be directly employed. Construction of this traffic and bridge has had a very positive impact on the quality of life of our citizens and our municipality can now develop much faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47458	Thank you, fellow Pantovic. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Goran Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47459	Thank you, Chairman. The aim of my amendment is to point to a constant need, primarily to refresh this law, but also to point to a constant need for work to create better conditions for investment. The creation of these conditions is a very complex business and depends on more factors. At first, it's a good legislative framework on which we all work together, well, here, and through this law, which you have proposed, a respected minister. But what is even more dependent on investment conditions is probably political stability and therefore economical, but also on the international reputation of a country on which, above all, the president of the country has done the most in recent years. Is that any better? Always, of course, can do better. But as much as someone wants to hide the results, they are now serious and very visible. The project to revitalise Lake Palic in Subotica is also visible. You know, i.e. Your ministry signed that three-way contract in November 2017, where the signatories are still the German KFV bank and the town of Subotica, and for Serbian citizens, are the six-and-a-half million-euro grant contracts, which will enable and be the start of a serious investment on the long-standing, or decades-long problem of Palic and the environment. It is a serious development problem for Palić, Ludaš, Subotica and all the surrounding places located in the north of Baka. Given that this project is going to some of its imagined course, I must also commend the efforts made by your ministry, the local self-government in Subotica, to thank the German bank for this serious donation, and to tell you that both you and the government and the president of the state will surely have the support of citizens from the north of Baka, as long as the pace progresses in the development of the north of Backa, and in this parliament, as long as these reform and good laws come, they will have the support of us, the Serbian Progressive Party. And thank you for all that I said earlier, dear minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47460	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Mike.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47461	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister with associates, Minister Mihajlovic was in parliament at the end of May this year when we discussed four types of traffic, road, rail, water and air. At that time, a minister like us, SNS MPs, discussed the biggest infrastructure project – the revitalisation of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, which will bring a lot to this region, not only part of Belgrade to the exit from Serbia, to Hungary, but to all Serbia in general. I then pointed out that in the late 19th century, Kikinda had a traditional railway connection with Vienna, Budapest and Badjas, and that it also had a connection with London, Paris and Brussels. It has been only a few months since Minister Mihajlovic was here and when we talked about it, and several steps have been taken to revitalise the Kikinda-Subotica railway and to bring Kikinda together, in a way, with the Belgrade-Budapest railway. Namely, two or three weeks ago, a meeting took place between the five municipalities of the Northobanat district, attended by the minister, where an agreement was concluded on co-financing of the Kikinda-Subotica line, so that the line would be maintained, as three or four years ago there was an idea for the line to be abolished. Of course, we are very pleased that this line will not be abolished, not only because of passengers, students and tourists going north of our country, but, above all, because of the economy, which is very much using railways in this part. We are also pleased that the reconstruction of the Senta-Sabotica railway is announced for next year, as it is the most problematic part of this railway line, because trains on that section range from 20 to 40 kilometers per hour. We are pleased to be connected to this railway that will connect Belgrade and Budapest and thank you for your efforts to achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47462	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47463	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on construction products, which reads: "The application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving economic resources. “ The draft law on construction products is for the first time uniquely regulated by the area of construction products and is in line with EU standards and best practice. The bill refers to as many as 35 areas of construction products, and the list of standards extends by adopting new standards. It is important to point out that the law allows for innovative products to be placed on the market and thus regulates this issue that has not been legally regulated so far. In addition to incentives for innovation, the bill also provides full legal certainty, a prerequisite for further development in the area of construction, retaining the leadership position Serbia has in the region, as well as attracting new investments. The draft law regulates the validity of EU documents in the assessment of products and quality verifications, product performance and provides for specific bodies to deal with quality assessment and validation. The Technical Assessment Body will be primarily responsible for the adoption of documents to evaluate the product as well as for giving a technical assessment. While the body for evaluation, verification, constitutionality, performance of construction products will perform tasks, as an independent third party. In addition to testing the product, this body will also verify the factory control of the product and the processing. This is how all the existing problems we've encountered in this area are eliminated. Harmonisation provides legislation with EU rights and frameworks for the highest quality of construction products.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47464	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47465	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Mihajlovic, honourable MPs, the most important reason for the adoption of this law is the need for a general regulation to regulate the placing on the market of construction products and those building materials that fully meet the conditions of international and domestic standards. Construction material manufacturers, distributors, investors and laboratories, they all feel the effects of this law. This law, which at the same time will prevent various unprofessional companies from participating in construction operations, that the material that is being built on is inadequate, even dangerous, which has led to serious problems in the past. It is particularly important that the provisions of this law contribute to making building facilities more quality and safer for the lives and health of people who have been particularly insistent in the past few years. Our country's development primarily relies on investment in infrastructure. President, sir, Aleksandar Vukic and this Government of the Republic of Serbia have shown that they are handling this very principle by taking care of balanced regional development. Equal development for us, who come from Vojvodina, therefore, the northern Serbian province, is of great importance. I'm sure you're sharing my opinion that the travel network in Banat is in a very bad state, but I'm also sure that the banana highway will see the light of day which is a strategically important direction and an important issue for further development of this part of our country, especially the northern Banat from which I come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47466	Thank you. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Popovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47467	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this law creates preconditions for increasing access to international markets, increasing the free flow of goods, raising levels of competitiveness and economic development in general. A few weeks ago, the ministry issued construction permits to build the first 376 apartments for security forces in Vranje and Nis. In Vranj, four buildings with 186 apartments will be built in the first phase, and in Nis two buildings with 190 apartments, a total gross surface area in both cities of about 27,000 square meters. The total value of this investment is one billion and 400 million dinars. The first phase of building apartments for members of the military and police will begin in seven Serbian cities by spring and is scheduled for the construction of more than 8,000 housing units by 2020, making one third of the total number of apartments necessary for the care of registered persons. Construction as an important factor in sustainable development in strategic terms is one of the most important industries, as it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories. The realisation of all these projects is an indication that the government of the Republic of Serbia is pursuing the overall development of the state and raising the standard of living of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47468	Thank you, colleague Popovic. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47469	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, Article 3 lists the products that are classified in different areas of construction products. Construction isn't just for itself, it's practically growing, it's growing around 30 industrial branches. At this point in Serbia, around 11,000 people are working in the area of construction, or around 11,000 companies, and when construction is growing then you have a causal link to GDP growth, there is an increase in employment levels, there is a decrease in unemployment levels. If you have, and you have good financial balances, then there is certainly stability in the functioning of the currency. The construction industry in Serbia is not itself, it is an integral part of the construction industry in the world. The major economic crisis, the IMF said in 2008, was primarily caused by a crisis in the financial sector from 2007 to 2008, and then by a crisis on mortgage loans from 2007 to 2009. It seems, Madam Minister, that the balloon of the cyclic economic crisis is kind of blowing. The reason for this should be sought primarily in the difference between the interest rates in the Fed, which grow and grow in the next time period by the end of the year of 2.2 and the interest rates in the EU zone. The growth of interest rates in the EU zone will certainly lead to the purchase of credit prices. Credits are a legitimate source for the construction sector. These loans will likely be more expensive for both natural persons and for the state and companies. The state of Serbia is working and will do, in the next period of time, all the cyclical consequences that can arise on the global market are as little notice for Serbian citizens as possible. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47470	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47471	I thank the chairman. The prominent Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are investments, are new jobs, is building road infrastructure. While the previous regime has left us with over two million illegally built objects, the resolution ministry is today struggling to mutilate all objects with legal solutions. Imagine how damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia was based on property taxes, based on various fees for legalisation of objects, how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia were deprived of better life, new hospitals, new schools, kindergartens, travel infrastructures, and not to mention 400,000 fired workers. Only in my municipality, the municipality of Kursumli, closed four factories between 2004 and 2008, and fired over six thousand people. Imagine, six thousand people on 23 thousand inhabitants, how many at that time were my municipality. SNS policy, all that allows Serbian citizens is good today, and even better tomorrow. Not only do we open factories today and build infrastructure, but in a year or two, I can safely say, we'll be in a position to import labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47472	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? The word is from LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47473	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, construction is one of the most strategic business branches, which provides facilities, road and municipal infrastructure for all economic and social categories. The proposed Construction Products Act is aimed at removing observed irregularities in practice and, on the other hand, at harmonising with EU standards and laws. The law discusses harmonising the rules on production, distribution and transport of construction products and increasing their quality. Thus, construction products producers will be more competitive and more present on the world market, which will, of course, increase the foreign income of their business. Serbia today is a major construction site. In all local self-governments, road and municipal infrastructure is built, housing is on the rise. All of this raised our construction operation and hired tens of thousands of workers. It is this law that will allow the properties of construction products to be more quality, which of course contributes to the quality of buildings that are being built, protecting life, human health and the environment. Construction is a very important business branch for the functioning of the economy in general and is connected to all forms of life and work. Construction in Serbia will be competitive and will be able to participate equally in the world market, become highly accumulated again and contribute to Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47474	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mirko Krlić submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47475	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with his associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia watching the transfer, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, but I will focus my discussion on one side and I will turn my explanation of the amendment on another topic for a reason. With full respect for every profession, I want to thank President Vukic today for publicly respecting, respecting and respecting his statement to protect nurses and doctors. In recent years, only some poor aspects of health care work have been mentioned in the media, and 99.9% of the real work is forgotten where employees of medical and health care workers do their work committed, responsible and become through poor examples appropriately branded. Now I'd like to read and thank you on my own personal behalf, and I honestly mean on behalf of my medical and medical profession, for this statement. What does the president say? The president says he stops at the protection of doctors and nurses who are committed to doing their job, and he asked if we can ever say thank you or watch every little thing to say something negative. I want to get into the protection of nurses and doctors. If someone tried to take bribes, let's arrest them, we do it. Don't criticize the doctors because it suits us to attack Serbia's Clinical Center in a story... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47476	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kostic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47477	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, these days we have had the opportunity to hear criticisms at the expense of the SNS that we boast of what we have done for this time. Here, I'm going to complain about part of the opposition now, so I'm going to take out what they did in my local government in Sokobanja. They've done no less than the general regulation plan for eight years, spent five million dinars from the Sokobanja municipality budget, but that's not the point. They've made a plan that's inapplicable, inapplicable 70%. The plan only took care of their personal interests, not public interests. They proposed some bad infrastructure solutions and, of course, they punished the citizens of Sokobanja in 2016. In this way, they also prevented investors from coming to Sokobanje to build new hotels and in every way made it impossible to build new roads, new sidewalks and anything else that required a building permit. But there's only a beginning. In 2016, when the SNS took over this local self-government, we found a building in such a state that the roof was sneezing, the facade fell, the carpentry did not change for 40 years. I must point out that this building is under the protection of cultural monuments and that we have the honor of being the same architect who designed this building, he also designed our local self-government building Jovan Milkic. This isn't just a problem. The problem is that the first thing we had to do when we came to power was we had to renovate the toilets. Let them laugh, but the yellow elite, I really don't know if they have any toilets at home like they had in our administration building.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47478	Bring the end. Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47479	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, fellow MPs, were involved in the process of preparing the bill by representatives of all interested parties, producers, bodies to assess compliance, the academic community, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, institutions and held public hearings in the five largest cities in Serbia. The country's plan is to build highways, bridges and railways in 2018 to spend 43.9 billion dinars, while the sum will reach a total of 133.7 billion dinars by the end of 2020. The Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure in the construction of roads and the modernisation of Serbian railways announced in due time that it will invest 150 billion dinars in 2017, 2018, 2019. After a year and a half since the start of a series of capital projects, according to experts, large growth has already been seen in the construction sector. My colleagues from all Serbia's cities these days are instructing examples from their environments of what has been done in the area of infrastructure that allows faster flow of goods, people, greater road safety, greater employment. A significant contribution to the increase in gross social product is immeasurable in the case of construction. I thank you for the Gazela Bridge, which ended in April in Mladenov, because if it hadn't been for your authority, it wouldn't have been open yet, it would have extended the deadlines. So I thank you this time. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47480	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47481	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, industrial production is an important area of the country's overall economic system and economic policy. It depends on the stability of economic growth, employment, maintaining the balance in imports and exports. The aim is to stimulate economic growth and to modernise and revitalise old and stimulate the development of new branches of industry. The effects of regulation of the construction products market will raise the level of quality of materials used in construction and make domestic producers more competitive on the European market. I must say that in the past, the wooden industry of Serbia has been one of the more attractive sectors for foreign investors. Italian companies Ditre, Mobil Turi, Plados and many others built their factories in Serbia to supply construction products not only on the domestic market, but also on the European Union market and on the growing market of the Russian Federation. The action plan to support Serbia's wood industry has just put forward a proposal to increase competitiveness and speed up the development of wood industry, with the aim of creating conditions for Serbia's positioning as a global producer of wood products. When we talk about the value of construction and infrastructure works, in 2017 it increased by 50% compared to 2016. The share of construction in Serbia's gross domestic product rose from 4.3% to 6.2%, resulting in increased value of infrastructure works and housing growth. Serbia has become an attractive country for investment, a country that opens new factories, builds bridges, roads and buildings, a country that develops and raises the standards of the lives of its citizens. Therefore, any improvement and improvement with new technologies will help us to develop and strengthen economic resources overall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47482	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47483	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with co-workers should make maximum use of grants from the European Union to finance infrastructure projects. Today, once again, there are 28,000 active construction sites in Serbia, never in history have there been so many sites but in 2012, when the head of the state came to the SNS. Building roads, modernising railways and air traffic are only part of a plan to develop the infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia. After 60 years, most speeds were raised from 10 and 30 kilometers to 120 kilometers per hour. The railway site of Prokop was completed after 40 years. A share between Belgrade and Resnik, as well as Resnik and Valjev, has been reconstructed. There's a share in the construction from Old Paz to New Sad. The Belgrade-Stara Pazova and Sisevo-Dimitrovgrad railway is also under construction. We imported, to improve and perfect the railways, 48 modern trains. A fast track is being made between Belgrade and Budapest. Serbia today is a factor of stability in the region and an ideal place for foreign investors to invest and the main hub for this part of Europe. Air traffic has achieved the highest degree of harmonisation with EU regulations. One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to bring as many tourists and businessmen as possible to visit our country and thus fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We need to talk about "Nikola Tesla" Airport. This is the first step with our country, as far as air traffic is concerned, the "Nikola Tesla" Airport is today a renovated, under-judicial flight operation, and the most important thing is that we have aircraft that are new. "Er Serbia" flies to a total of 100 destinations. She was rewarded with the highest score, with seven stars, as far as safety is concerned. Positive effects are expected by the end of the “Nikola Tesla” concession process, worth 1.5 billion euros. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47484	National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here's a colleague of Atlagic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47485	Dear Vice President, I thank you for putting up with these two days, along with your team, and there are eight of you tonight, so much I see in front of me, more than the entire opposition, and those alliances for Serbia's destruction have none. This morning one came to insult you, us, Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Vlad Orlic with the greatest insults, lies. You know who insulted you? The man who graduated from college at the cafe and not only that, the worst student in the history of the Third Belgrade High School. So much for these insults. One other, Djordje Vukadinovic, named Đordje Vlah, insulted me, Mr Risticevic, the state of Serbia and all farmers, or peasants in Serbia, the day before. I'm going to quote what he said, here's the respected citizens of Serbia, and I quote -- as my distinguished colleague Risticevic said, that we're a normal country should drink beer in front of the store and make out, and he's a folk MP here and he's talking about what kind of society this is and what this country is like. I invite him to apologize to me, Mr. Risticevic, all farmers and all the villagers and the state of Serbia. It wasn't us, it was him who took two and a half million from the lottery, and he didn't play the lottery. You know why? His contract includes a public opinion examination. As he questioned, you saw. In the end, all those who are not here tonight, so that the citizens of Subotica understand me, so that they understand from Nis, Vranja, Kosovo Mitrovica, Pirota, are called lepers, lesbians, Mutikas, Varajić and Lufti butts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47486	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47487	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on Article 3. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on construction products, which adds Article 5, which encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving economic development. In order for construction products to be found on the construction product market, they need to comply with Serbian standards adopted by the national standardisation body of the Republic of Serbia, but if they are not established by Serbian technical documentation, the provisions of the rules governing the general safety of products and consumer protection apply to these construction products. I would refer to the performances of construction products that are significant for human health and environmental protection. Therefore, it is necessary for buildings to be designed and constructed from construction products in such a way that during their useful cycle they do not pose a threat to the health and safety of workers and users, nor should they have a greater impact on the quality of the environment and climate during construction and use. The design and construction of buildings, especially housing buildings, in the future, will be subject to the sustainability requirements of the quality of the environment, requiring construction products to be made of materials that will allow reuse and recycling of the facility itself or its parts after the collapse. Therefore, the new proposed regulations in the production of construction materials itself will provide an additional incentive for the development of construction, thereby affecting the improvement of the economic development of the country, through new investments and the creation of new jobs and ultimately improving the living standards of the population, which is the ultimate goal of investment in production capacities, both industrial and infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47488	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47489	Ladies and gentlemen, SRS MPs will not vote in favour of this amendment, because this amendment does not improve the text of the proposed law, and we will not vote in favour of this or the other proposals, because we do not think that the proposed laws solve the problems that are really serious in this area and take a long time. It had to be done much more seriously, and this proposal for a law on construction products, in fact, lacks a key provision that would accurately tell who is who determines certain standards of construction material. What we heard yesterday from Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, a member of the 45th seems to me, was not saying. It is generally spoken of as standards, and we insist that we must know who it is, we have already formulated, physically or legally, which would, by its signature, confirm that this is exactly the material, because without it, this law will be, giving serious opportunity for abuse. Here's to repeat what we've already explained, we'll have a particular product and someone will, and we don't know who, say that this product doesn't meet certain conditions, and we already have a certain contract with some company, and some other company will lobby to end up installing its product into a particular facility. It is certainly not what solves problems and is not the essence of this law just to define standards and intentions for construction products to be quality and according to world trends, which we would have nothing to do with. We claim, and time will show and believe us, we would be happy if we were wrong, that time shows that we were wrong, that this law is being passed to slowly remove our biggest partners in the area of construction, which is the People's Republic of China, Azerbaijan and Russia, to replace them with American companies. There's nothing better about this Law of Law. I mean, it's a really ugly name for me, but let's do it. The essence of the law is that it is a law of destruction, because the law is so preconceived that it leaves little opportunity for local self-government to issue building permits for buildings built without construction permits. It's not good because the state has not been able to take over for 20 years as long as it's been trying with these laws, the state can't take over part of the responsibility and guilt that people have built without building permits. I claim that 90% of the buildings without a building permit were so built because it was not possible to obtain a building permit, and it is particularly unacceptable that by adopting this law, everything that was built after 24 or 27 November 2015. She tried to draw attention to Zorana Mihajlovic as we asked the amendment to erase this possibility, how we protect some tycoons, and I don't know who, no. We protect Serbian citizens, we want the state to be a good host to every citizen, to give local self-government a legal opportunity to finally start this job, because this job is not done. That little thing that's done, it's just so salty. I think you're all agreed that there was no will, no desire to do this seriously, and it won't be now. It's the easiest thing to take down. Someone, you know, invested some money and I'm talking about, first of all, people who have family homes, who have smaller businesses, etc., agricultural facilities. Someone invested some money, and it should be just like that without a heart and without a soul and come to that someone to level it with the ground, and before you leave him the possibility and find a way to get what he did and mutilates, or to get a building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47490	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47491	So, the National Standardisation Body sets standards. It would be a special observation if it meant it would be harder for our companies. So, after the adoption of this law, it will be harder for our companies that produce construction products and, in particular, companies from the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, Azerbaijan, etc., with whom we work very much on infrastructure. I mean, that's absolutely not true. They are working according to domestic standards today, even the People's Republic of China, so let's say the modernisation of the Belgrade railway – Budapest works exclusively and by the EU alone. So, every share, even this second that's done by the Russian Federation of Loans, is done by the EU standards and has a verification and verification, therefore, companies that check literally every inch of either, therefore, the rails that are being built, any equipment that is being installed and everything has to be according to EU standards. So, on the contrary, this law really needs to allow our companies to develop further and that they can go to market and that where we don't have standards, first of all, we're going to do harmonisation. It's another thing, about the law. Much more has been done for three years in the legal process than in the previous 40 years. I agree with you in one thing that what we inherited, about two million illegally built objects, is 90%, I don't know if it's 90%, but it's a high percentage of those that were made just because they couldn't get a building permit. That's why we first went to construction license reform and that's why we first solved this thing, so in 2014, we had one law. So, what you mentioned, a while ago, one counter, but that one counter was later transferred to an electronic building permit. It's not hard to get a building permit anywhere, not in any part of Serbia, not in any of the local conditions, but what we have to do is to tighten this law. I repeat, this law is not a law of destruction. This law is the law, first of all, on the law of objects, but those who directly threaten the public interest, that's what I was talking about, they're the criteria, they're the first ones who really can't survive. You can't build on the subway road house, you can't build right next to the highway house, etc. So these are the things that will be solved, and there are many, if we speak in Serbia's territory. (President: Bringing the end. Who is responsible? There are some people who are responsible. So, what's the department or state's jurisdiction, I'd say that's what we're doing. We've had problems with local self-government, of course. We hired a thousand people on Serbia's territory just to deal with each local self-government by law. More specifically, the municipalities are asked to say how many people they need to work on legislation. As much as they asked the state to get a job. We didn't get the result and the speed of the legislation we wanted, and we saw what the problem was, and that's why we started these amendments and the additions of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47492	Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (The Faith of Radeta: only one sentence, indeed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47493	It's literally just one sentence. I would really like to, and we would love to, if the ministry and the minister would once again consider this amendment and colleagues who will vote for this law, believe me, it is not good that you have set the deadline since 2015. We don't mind destroying any object that threatens public well-being. Of course, we can't think of that. But there's a lot of people who built it illegally just because the inspectors on the ground are corrupt. I think you all agree. In that sense, we think that the state should take responsibility and say – well, really, now that we draw the line, but really. I don't know how many times and every time it was past that line. Once it has to be done, but it's three years back to draw the line. It's a lot, you'll get a lot of people sick. That's the essence of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47494	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47495	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mrs Mihajlovic, distinguished guests from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted – Article 3. The draft law on construction products adds item 5, which reads: "The application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to improving economic development." What's a railroad if it doesn't stimulate economic development? So I will continue where I left off, with the second amendment, when I was talking about moving the railway line from the centre of the town of Nis, which is the project of a railway bypass around Nis, which is part of a larger project of reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line, which costs about 300m euros. The railway tour around Nis is 22km long, from the railway station to Siceva and costs 80m euros, and the entire Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway project will also be financed: the state of Serbia, or its citizens through the budget – 60m euros, the EIB, something like a loan – 134m euros and something irreversible – 73.04m dinars. With regard to dynamics, expropriations, i.e. the ransom is due to be completed in 2018, construction early 2020, and the end of 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47496	The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radmilo Kostic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radmilo Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47497	Thank you, Chairman. The prominent Deputy Prime Minister with associates, one of the positive consequences of the rapid development of road infrastructure construction, especially Corridor 10, is the strengthening and development of private road and construction enterprises, especially in southern Serbia. After slowing down the activity and almost shutting down the construction operation in the first decade of the 21st century, after 2012, fortunately for us, the cloudy sector gradually revived several years back and revived. A large number of people, from masters to engineers, are employed in this sector. Mostly these companies deal with your sector's activity. What is the problem is that the main contractors of road infrastructure work, who rarely fulfil their obligations to subcontractors. According to the information I have, Serbia's Corridors strictly and in time pay their obligations to the performers, however, performers remain unpaid and seriously late on payments to their subcontractors. I know this may not be in your portfolio, that you're monitoring whether the contractors are paying the subcontractors, but just so you have information that it's going down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47498	You've really pleasantly surprised me with your discussion, colleague Kostic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague of Richtinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47499	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, how local self-government should be run and how to plan the household, we can see and learn from the local self-government of the town of Leskovec, who recognized that modern travel infrastructure in the city and in the villages is a prerequisite for general prosperity and overall development. Significant investments have been made, I will underline, by the JKP Toplan, which has invested over 2m euros in the modernisation of the heating system in recent years. A new gas boiler room has been built, heat treatment has been performed, heat substation automation, as well as the installation of combustion treatment filters. Also, all heat consumption is allowed to be invoiced by the consumption of heat substations by installing reliable measuring equipment. 46 heat substations have been replaced by new automatic substations and this has been replaced in collective housing facilities connected to the system, forming the core of the future dispatch system. Meanwhile, the heat consumption has been increased by 500 housing units, apartments and about 20,000 square metres of business space. The public utility Toplana provides regular annual subsidies to certain endangered social categories of remote heating users. Finally, it is important to mention that the JKP "Toplana" in Leskovac from a former loser has become a successful public enterprise and further investment can be expected to improve the quality of heating of Leskovec citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-24-0.u47500	Thanks, buddy. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10.00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 76 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
