ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37878	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 91 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Djordje Milicevic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Stefana Miladanovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote bargaining. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the committees responsible and the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was tabled by Ms Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37879	No amendment has been accepted which we have submitted with the reason that the bill clearly reflects its subject matter and content. As far as we're concerned, our amendment reflects that. This is not an argument, but simply an attitude, as in the previous two days we have listened mostly to the praises that Jorgenka Tabakovic brought to herself here. She spoke much more of herself, of some of her rights in the National Assembly, than of what is the subject of all those laws. It somehow impressed me when she said that loyalty is ready to pay for it, and I can't believe someone who stole the mandate of the SRS in 2008 said it was faithful, loyal to ideology, foreigners, etc., but it wouldn't have done it then. Unfortunately, for several years the biggest corruption and the most serious crime and the most serious violation of the National Assembly's dignity has just been the theft of parliamentary mandates, but these days Meho Omerovic has somehow thrown it into a shadow of cosmetic theft, some perfumes, lipsticks, etc. abroad, at the Frankfurt airport and, worst of all, when he has already done so has been called on a diplomatic passport, which has certainly caused great damage to the National Assembly, the great damage to the Republic of Serbia. We really expect the ruling majority to talk to that part of the assembly majority and to solve the problem by probably telling someone that it would at least be correct to resign, at least get out of the public eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37880	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37881	Today, on June 6, 2018, Madam President of the National Assembly, we are discussing the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in remote deals, and there is Mrs Tabakovic, who forgot to tell us in her opening presentation, and you can find this information online on certain economic sites, even in PDF format, a proposal for this same law that was made in 2015. Is that true? Yes, it is. Why is this law only in 2018 in the National Assembly, when it was awarded by these foreign banks which are and how they have robbed Serbian citizens in the past two decades, can I say freely, only in 2018? Why did the National Bank of Serbia and they not personally work on a particular type of campaign and instruction, which, in addition to those basic arrangements for the use of financial services, should have been given to citizens? You don't expect, since entrepreneurs and people who registered agricultural households are mentioned here, that they will, in accordance with their basic knowledge and education, know all the traps that some financial institution is preparing for them? It's your job, Mrs. Tabakovic, to do it in the best possible way. But since this law is late, there are certain people's sayings that can only be used to harm citizens, when interest, as you say, is reduced by 11 percentage points during your term, what does it mean now that all these banks are offering without commission and without credit costs, credit when no one can take it anymore, or the way to it is very difficult, and that is to pay children tuition, to buy the basics, to buy re-promatial peasants? That's why pensioners take loans to save their grandkids, because they don't have to give them basics, and their kids are out of a job. Therefore, Mrs Gojkovic, you need to make sure that, while the people are having a hard time living and gnawing, you and you from the ruling majority, this is your disgrace, that such a scandal is no longer repeated, as Meho Omerovic did, who stole as a national MP of the Serbian Parliament at Frankfurt's fri-shop. Now, if we didn't go there, we don't know how far the fridge is from the toilet, where he was supposed to have a problem, so that's a really funny story. So, the shame and shame are in the Serbian Parliament, and you are obliged to settle it as the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37882	The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the bill and if this law and its title and title are looked at, it turns out that this government is really taking care of the citizens of Serbia, because it takes care of their alleged protection, but if it gets into the essence of things, in the reality of what citizens are experiencing, we will see that it is absolutely not. The banking system in Serbia is in the hands of foreigners and simply this system is so designed that they determine both interest and fees and fees, etc. There have been words, they've been saying for years, and we've heard it from the governors, so let's just say, when they're taking the loan, they're going to cancel those two percent of the amount of the loan, but we've seen that there's nothing. Not to mention the most important thing that affects a large number of our citizens, which is a loan that was raised by citizens who were indexed in Swiss francs. This is the thing that the governor of the NBS and this government should deal with, but we see that there is nothing, although many countries in our environment solve this problem, such as Hungary, Croatia, etc. Here, now we can cross this street behind this assembly. I passed through Kosovo street the other day, and I see it in there, and we don't cut you, we don't scream, we don't scream, and there's a picture of a horse, a picture of a sheep, a picture of a rooster or a chicken, and I just, as a citizen of this country, felt really hurt when I saw those commercials, and it's basically the same thing. So much for this amendment now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37884	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike the current practice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the legislator and the submission of the National Assembly to the vote, when it was combined incompatible, we have today a set of laws, or more specifically five laws in the area of finance submitted by the National Bank of Serbia. As far as the law we are discussing is concerned, or rather only the first few members of the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in the distance, my amendment to the title of this Bill, I asked it to read – a bill on the protection of the basic rights of users of financial services in the distance. This is one primarily technical proposal for procedural and financial harmonisation and compliance with EU rules, so that all the good intentions of the promoter on making payment easier and protecting financial service users fall into the second plan under the burden of imposing harmonisation, adjudicating the directives coming from the EU. I have little time left to join my colleagues from the SRS in condemning a major international and diplomatic scandal committed by an MP of this parliament when he was caught stealing in one of the free shops at Frankfurt Airport. The National Assembly should be a place and every MP should publicly condemn and stamp this highly immoral act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37886	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Ruzica Nikolic. (Radoslav Milojic: I'm reporting for word.) Here you go. I didn't understand, this amendment or the last one? (Radoslav Milojic: Last time.) Passed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's very unserious that we should draw attention to what happened and what an MP did. Of course, I have no reason to defend any MPs, especially for such a thing, but I think that one parliamentary group is trying to distract the topic from the most important things, which is that the state of Serbia owes 225m euros and that instead we are discussing some kind of theft in some kind of free shop. I think with these 225m euros, they're going to suffer Serbia's citizens again, as is the cost of raves, as are citizens with an increased fuel price, and I think this way of turning away from such an important topic, and today there's not a theme that the SNS owes 225m euros, above the 10 billion euros you've charged us for the last six years, but to talk about two carmines, one perfume in the fridge. We see that the extended hands of Alexander Vukic from other parliamentary groups, not from his, are doing it successfully, and I ask the citizens of Serbia and the people MPs who do not want to participate, to talk about the most important topic, which is that after 10 billion euros, as you have charged us, in six and a half years of government, you are in charge of the state for the new 225m euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37888	Thank you. Replica Vjerice Radeta and Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37889	The strange attitudes of a colleague who spoke earlier, of course, every MP and every MP group have the right to set priorities and to speak about what is most important at a certain point and we Serbian radicals are certainly talking about the proposed laws, but also about what we think is a disgrace and a disgrace, which is the theft of Mecca Omerovica. Someone who is trying to talk about parliament, talk about how important it is in parliament, once belonged to the Democratic Party, I don't know if even now, from the time the Democratic Party in parliament had, or when parliament had 308 MPs on their strange account. It was a scandal that we talked about on every topic, because it's something that will be remembered for a long time, like voting from Bodrum, which is also a disgrace that has been permanently inflicted on the National Assembly, but to defend Meh Omerovic or anyone in a way to say -- someone stole two perfumes and three lipsticks. Someone who stole two perfumes and three lipsticks if he had been able to be president of the Smederevska Palanka municipality, would have stolen as much as that president of the municipality then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37890	The word has a folk ambassador Goran Kovacevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37891	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in the distance of contracts. The debate concerns the second law and does not speak at all about the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia in the interests of Serbian citizens should certainly be continuously announced, approximately 59 per cent of the public debt compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. at the level of the general state, meaning the public debt of the republican budget and local administration, 59.9%. It is a completely irrelevant amount in absolute terms in economic theory in the lives of citizens, it counts how much we as a society are able to service our debt. When we are in debt at an interest rate of 0.75% today, it is a basis for the growth and development of the Serbian state. When someone once owed at an interest rate of 7.8%, it was a debt slavery that Serbia would never have come out of if it hadn't been for Alexander Vukic, NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to those three functions and hard and pre-glading work, Serbia has a chance to grow and develop. We will borrow because these loans mean new schools, new hospitals, new highways, if these loans are such that Serbia has no problem serving them and making them liquid in relation to the interests of Serbian citizens. If you look at the international institutions of the IMF, the World Bank, credit ratings, then it is a clear upward path, or trend that says that Serbia is increasingly better and better in economic terms. Absolute amounts mean nothing. The degree of responsibility relative to public debt speaks of the power and ability of the Serbian economy to service its development.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37892	At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37893	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment requires, in accordance with the proposed legal text, an amendment to the title and that it is changed and that it is read – a bill on the protection of fundamental rights and the interest of users of financial services in the negotiation of financial services, when using means of communication at a distance. In an explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, he says, because we believe that the name of the bill clearly reflects its subject matter and content. However, the proposed amendment is more concrete and comprehensive. We see that this bill stands out as its primary goal of improving the rights of users of financial services. Then, further protection of these users, as well as harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU law. Furthermore, you say that the rights of users in remote services will be strengthened by this proposal, by contracting remote customers of financial services, by allowing them to access the widest range of financial services that exist on the domestic market, etc., so as not to list any more. What we're interested in is how are you going to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, the dignity of all our MPs from the petty thief, unfortunately still the MP Mecca Omerovic, who, because of the few cheap lipsticks and perfumes he stole, is also the National Assembly and the State of Serbia, showing diplomatic passports and calling for diplomatic immunity at the moment he was caught in his miserable and miserable thieving? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37894	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37895	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS is proposing that the NBS take its stand and recommend that courts and banks agree to take loans in Swiss francs to break up due to the changed credit conditions, i.e. single rate growth of franc compared to dinar over the period 2007-2016 by almost 240%. In cases where the party, for example, took a loan of two million dinars, is now obliged to return about six million dinars, which represents a huge disproportionate amount of mutual donations to the detriment of clients. According to this situation, the debtor was brought into an unequal position in relation to the bank. The National Bank of Serbia should recommend to banks, and that the courts have it in mind, that a change in the loan contract and the same calculation be made to the dinar currency, because it is thus realised, so that the debtor returns what he has taken from the bank, along with the regulation of a tight interest, thus reducing the main debt and the banks receive fair compensation. Using the provisions of the contract, the banks increased interest according to business policy, resulting in interest at the time the loan was taken was not valid until the end of the payment, but often changed or increased, which increased the monthly obligation of the clients. The banks paid these loans for the purchase, i.e. the lowest rate, and the collection of monthly liabilities per medium and even per sales rate, which the banks formed according to their own needs and which was several dinars higher than the NBS sales course, which is contrary to Article 15. The bond law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37896	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37897	Thank you, Madam President. I mention Article 106 that all speakers can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Here, in this congregation, an unfortunate event has been abused, and that is why I want to point out that we do not dispute this event. Secondly, let no one be guilty until proven guilty. Third, allow the German authorities to file their reports, their investigations, and only then can we discuss the act that took place. We are here in advance condemning the MP. We all believe the German state, it's a serious state, and if this event really is the way it is represented here in our country, then the German state will really give the right answer. Also, the Social Democratic Party, as a serious party, will also give its answer to all these developments. I will not tell the People's Messengers what they will say. They know what they will say. I don't have to explain to the citizens of Serbia what the policies of the SRS and the Social Democratic Party are. We're two opposite political sexes and we have insurmountable differences. I insist that we talk politics and leave our personalities aside. Then when it's all clear, when there are strong judgments, then let's talk about individuals and their actions. I won't mention what a judicial verdict means, etc. So please, President, let's really stick to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37898	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you. Ms. Radet, on what basis, since there is no replica of the Rules of Procedure? It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37899	I know there's no replica here, although there really was a replica room here, but that's why I'm speaking on the basis of article 107. I said that on Friday, and I called on all the MPs not to make it difficult for the president and the chairman of parliament, not to call on Article 107 as long as Meho Omerovic in the National Assembly, because no one can in a worse way humiliate the National Assembly and threaten the dignity of what Meho Omerovic did at the Frankfurt airport, when he himself came out of the free shop, once on TV says with three lipsticks, the second time says that with one perfume, he said for the third time with perfume and lipstick. Whatever it is, unfortunately, about Mecca Omerovic and the incident, the theft that took place at the airport, along with a diplomatic passport, will likely be discussed by the German Bundestag. It is a serious matter, and MPs belonging to Meha Omerovic's MP group would be better off not defending him. He's trying to defend himself these days, so he's burying himself more and more. And what the MPs of the SRS are going to say is absolutely our right, as is the right of the chairmanship to respect the Rules of Procedure and, as it has been so far, to allow it to speak and a little wider than what is on the agenda, because all MPs, when we talk about amendments, come out a little bit of the subject and that's something we seem to have quietly accepted, and that's something that's probably still going to happen. As far as we're concerned, we're really gonna say what we think we need to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37900	Thank you. I am aware that the subject is very delicate and that we must insist on the competent authorities who can help us, give us some clarification of what really happened in the case of MPs, give us some kind of notice or report on what really happened at the Frankfurt airport. The only thing I'm aware of is that the MP has called for diplomatic immunity. Is it a brake to get some more detailed report, I don't know, I don't understand that procedure, but we will also work through our consulate to get some more detailed information about what really happened, just so we don't get an ugly picture of the work of our parliamentarians who often travel abroad and into our work. I ask you to refrain from commenting on whether it is a crime of theft or something else until we have a report on which we can take our discussions and comments and call. And personally, I cannot prevent any MP from adding anything else to the amendment debate. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37901	Mrs. Gojkovic, I am reporting by article 27 and I ask you to protect us as the president of the National Assembly from the way my colleague Mijatovic abused Article 106. Rules of Procedure. This isn't about anyone from the SRS misusing the time foreseen to discuss the laws. The only argument we have as rights, the true opposition to the ruling regime, is that we are having a debate on this set of laws and amendments. But this is about, Mrs Gojkovic, that you as an experienced politician with almost 30 years of internship in this assembly and as a lawyer, you must warn these from your ruling coalition, from the SDP parliamentary group, that this is not about any crime, and you have now mentioned it in your speech. It's a matter of, you know, even better as a lawyer, a petty theft, which isn't treated like a felony in a German state. Well, we can't expect this disgrace of ours to be debated by the German Bundestag, but that's why, as a moral act, it can be expected that this man will never show up here again and resign to that seat of the MP, because it's the poorest, tiniest theft that's ever happened. You can't tell us now – you know, I'm waiting for something to be delivered to us. Well, the inspectors at Frankfurt Airport made a nice statement. They wrote a note. He called for diplomatic status because he traveled with a diplomatic passport. He was caught stealing. People have recorded this and probably security cameras and, therefore, stop belittling us more by his appearance and indifference of persuasion and it's really funny for citizens to listen to it, let alone the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37902	Thank you. I'm just trying to apply Article 27, which makes it difficult for me. I said, I'll look for the report you're talking about. I didn't get it, I didn't see it, it'll be available to all MPs. Believe me, it's not about any official secret, and you know the term of office belongs to an MP. It is up to the MP, after the report, if positive, whether or not he will remain in office. We don't have sanctions. Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37903	Thank you. With this amendment, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in the case of a distance contract, we proposed that the title be changed so as to read – the proposal for a law on the protection of the basic rights of users of financial services when contracting financial services at a distance. It is obvious that Meho Omerovic did not understand this bill, so he wanted to take away the goods, perfumes, lipsticks, pay from the toilets. We from the SRS have the understanding of Mecca Omerovic's habit of entering the system – come out, that because of the overall technological development and the growing importance of electronic business in modern life, as well as the development of new ways to offer and advertise financial services, there is a need to further regulate the provision of financial services, above all, their distance provision. We also understand that the creation of a single legal framework for the protection of users in the negotiation of all relevant types of financial services should strengthen the confidence of users in financial service providers. What the SRS opposes, when the law is passed, is that the proposal states that one of the main objectives of harmonising domestic legislation with EU law is, above all, with Directive 2002/65 of the EU, because if we continue with the EU story, there will be more Mehe Omerovica. We believe that all laws adopted by the National Assembly must be passed with a fundamental goal of protecting the interests of citizens and the economy of Serbia. You know very well that Serbia will not become an EU member. The EU officials also openly say, and the SRS advocates that Serbian authorities stop this devastating pro-European policy as soon as possible and turn to genuine co-operation with the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37904	Under the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Ljiljana Mihajlovic, a national MP, submitted the amendment's proposal. Does anyone want a word? The National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted the amendment's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37905	Try to distract counterpart Meh Meh Omerovic from such a misdemeanor, his colleague and, which is blackest, his party is a member of the government, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Assembly does not take a position on this matter before any issue is resolved, because there is enough evidence that it has been committed, whether it is a crime, whether it is an offence, we will discuss it. Why is that necessary? Because the moral profile of an individual or party determines his policy in fact. If such a policy is run by the state, then you already know what kind of picture this parliament is sending to the world about the country of Serbia and the people living in it. I ask you best to consider this and take your stand before official documents arrive from Germany. What I want to tell you is that you are on one path to the EU, that you have drawn it firmly, and you have seen, you do not know who you will actually be in the EU with, with these people, with these petty thieves and with these people who stick the label to the whole Serbian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37906	I ask the MPs to talk about the amendments, at least try, not devote the whole discussion to the problem that parliament is currently facing. Of course I have my position, but I'm not the authority here as president of Parliament to express my position. My position is as chairman, as president to wait for me to receive official notice of this event, and I say it is not on me or on other parliamentary groups, but I believe it is a personal act and do not answer and abuse the Rules of Procedure, because I am saying in advance that I will take up time for the abuse of Rules of Procedure. I'm very tolerated, and I'm allowing nothing to be said about the amendment, and I have the right to interrupt. Therefore, MPs, I say to you, do not abuse the Rules of Procedure now so that you may speak to me and answer my warning. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does he want a word? At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does he want a word? At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Marina Ristic. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37907	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services was presented to us as something new, modern, as a 21st century liquid, so it was said that it had been seriously dealt with, it lasted a public debate indefinitely, so everyone interested could participate, make their proposals, then the Governor of the National Bank came here to defend each point, because this is a very important law. I agree it is. I was expecting a miracle unseen and decided to make a long-distance deal in the future just in case. Now I don't know why I thought it, because in Serbia long-distance contracts are signed, users are already protected by the existing Consumer Protection Act when signing a financial contract. This proposal says that everything that is not there is in this User Protection Act when signing the contract and everything that is not mentioned here is applied from this law, and there is more, more comprehensive, more detailed, and then I started looking for differences: Internet and there and here and here; mobile phone nowhere; obligations of the service provider the same; data carriers there and here and here; signature, logically, there by hand, here electronically, but we had it regulated by law. The only newspaper, which the governor pointed out to us as something great and new, is a 30-day deadline, but only for those users when the user gives money. So when he signs a life insurance agreement or a voluntary pension. By the way, is there a deadline for giving up stealing? Someone starts stealing, so when he gets caught, he quits. It doesn't have to be 30 days, it can be 48 hours, but it has to give the loft to change his mind. Anyway, as far as this law is concerned, we don't think there was a need to make an appointment like this by an emergency procedure, to adopt, the governor didn't need to work from morning till nightfall, because you know what they say - who's not able to finish the job in eight hours, is not even 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37908	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, taught by the political experience of October 5, 2000, so to this day, we have been forced, in fact, to make amendments to the title of the law. We've proposed changes to the title of the law. Here we have this event that was recently in Germany. A fellow who spoke of his political party, we don't see the party as any kind of culprit here. We do not see the Social Democratic Party of Serbia as any culprit and responsible person, nor its president, because I am absolutely sure that the party did not invite its MP, nor did the party's president, and gave him instructions on what to do, or that it would be nice to steal in Germany, if you do not get caught. For this reason, we must propose amendments to the law, or the names of the law, in order to narrow things down in the future. The National Bank Act when it was first passed in 1884 was called the Privilege Law of the National Bank of the Kingdom of Serbia. The privileges given by the law at the time were likely to apply to other banks that were not central banks, of course also referred to the citizens of the Kingdom of Serbia, but this time the governor of the National Bank, Mrs Tabakovic, took advantage of the mandate in 2008 when the mandate belonging to the SRS, along with the mandate, went to another party and later some other privileges that could be used. This is what has been used, which is evident, and we want Serbian citizens to benefit from this law that is being passed to them. A colleague said the public debt fell to 59.9% and that Serbia should continue to be in debt. It is an extenuating circumstance if public debt follows GDP growth, but here we have one problem, some amounts have also been taken from citizens of Serbia, especially pensioners, then public sector employees. Taking their pensions, reducing wages and a number of other procedures have led to an increase in value added tax, too, nowhere near recorded, Serbia has done so.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37910	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. Filip Stojanovic is not here. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go. I am sorry, I have not seen this amendment from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives being rejected, and no debate is being held on the rejected amendments. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojcic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37911	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, in this amendment, I have stated that it is being introduced into the essence of banking relations with citizens and legal persons in Serbia within the very term of the law. Therefore, the proposals, the proposal for a law on the protection of disbursed users of financial services when negotiated remotely. So the way to disprove financial services users in Serbia didn't start yesterday. After October 5th, the destruction of domestic banks began. It was done, therefore, in one brutal way. The consequences are catastrophic, and we suffer them to this day. This climate in which banks are almost always and in any situation privileged to the users of their services has continued. So far, we have pointed out on several occasions the need to address changes in favour of the Serbian state, in favour of Serbian citizens using financial services at banks, pointing to individual examples and in our environment. Not once was an example cited, for example, how Hungary solved the issue when it comes to the protection of users of credit in Swiss francs, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37912	Thank you. At the title of the Amendment Law, National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted. Does he want a word? No, I don't. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37913	Thank you, President. For a change, I'm not going to talk about an event that happened with a colleague, but I'm going to try to get back on the subject a little bit. We changed the title of the law. He is under the proposal of the Law on the Protection of Users of Financial Services in remote bargaining, and I suggest that he is called the Law on the Protection of Users of All Financial Services in remote bargaining and, of course, you have explained that you believe that your name is quite sufficient and you probably believe that he also implies this word that I add – all financial services. Unfortunately, however, there are things in the country of Serbia that are meant to be, and in life and in practice it is not, and that is why I added this word and maybe it was even smarter that I added ahead – and all the users of all the financial services. You will surely, as a better acquaintance of this topic, understand what I am talking about and what the plight of an ordinary citizen is, and that will include these services. You know, when I get something to pay the bank remotely, I do everything at home, and the bank takes my commission. Why? What did the bank do? Therefore, all users should be protected and therefore all services should be considered. So it's just a small part of what the Serbian Dvori movement is telling you about, and the governor, who really explained everything, sometimes it was too rough, fell too maybe into the fire and wanted something to imput us that we didn't intend to do. Therefore, it is necessary to protect all users in all services and to prevent the thefts that banks are carrying out. Banks live from users, not bank users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37914	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37915	As my colleague said earlier, banks live out of all of us and live well from all of us, live at the expense of the Serbian state, live at the expense of all its citizens, and that should get in the way. My proposal to amend this law requires the introduction of one word, to protect the so far damaged customers of banking services, because how many people were unhappy by banks in Serbia, how many people committed suicide because they were destroyed by banks. How many people ended up hijacking property? Because here banks falsified contracts and tried to hijack serious assets based on counterfeit contracts, counterfeit security funds, and that was proven in court proceedings, judicial decisions, and there was never any consequence of such bank proceedings. Within an hour here in the immediate vicinity, across the across from the National Assembly, disbursed citizens who have been destroyed by loans indexed in Swiss francs will hold another in a series of protests that will end up in front of the Supreme Casation Court with a hunger strike by some of them. Serbia alone has not solved the problem of people who have taken loans indexed in Swiss francs because no credit has been paid in Swiss francs. All paid in dinars and Swiss francs are just an item, i.e. only a few letters in contracts that these people concluded. Even from all the internal reports and audits that these business banks themselves have done, which I own, it is evident that none of them have taken and borrowed credit abroad in Swiss francs. So we can solve this problem very easily and elegantly. Of the 14 countries in Europe, 13 have solved it, only Serbia has not solved it yet. I'd also appeal to the National Bank authorities when the courts who would have to solve it don't solve it, that you commit yourself to that problem because it's not a small thing, it's over 100,000 people, 22,000 families. How many more people need to be killed so that we can finally stand in the protection of those who need us because it is the duties of all the state authorities and the duties of all the MPs to take care of the interests of the citizens, but also of justice, and here justice and justice have been violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37916	Goran Kovacevic as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37917	It is hard to say that the only state of Serbia in Europe has not solved the problem of credit indexed in Swiss francs. It is undeniable that in the election campaigns many political parties who have come or participated in the elections in different EU countries have proposed solutions that ended tragically in post-election for those who believed it. You do not have in almost no country after the election process was completed by the government that proposed and came under these promises to the government that they could realize what they had promised. Why? Because Serbia is not an isolated island in the world. Credits in Swiss francs and the problem is the functioning of the global financial system, and Serbia is only a part, a segment in the whole story. That's not the problem with Serbia. You cannot relate between banks and natural persons and businessmen, who have been based on foreign exchange clauses for centuries, translate the decision of the Serbian Parliament and say it does not exist. We can do this as a Assembly, but we would simply destroy the entire banking system, how it works in the world. We've been in a system for 40 years where the executive government decided on the functioning of all economic segments, and it turned out to be completely bad. The National Bank, the Republic of Serbia, needs every citizen, physically and legally, to present the clear consequences of its financial decisions. When people took loans in any currency they took loans because they thought it would be a more favourable interest rate compared to the eurobor. That's what it looked like at that moment. Financial markets reacted differently after a certain time. Do you know what the financial market on the euro will look like in the next five years? Who will bear the consequences of borrowing with the foreign exchange clause at the moment? The state of Serbia must no longer return, respecting not its rules, but EU rules, the world financial market, these rules must be respected. It is therefore indisputable that the state of Serbia should do everything possible for people with problems with the banking sector, but must not enter into a solution for concrete cases in relation to banks and natural persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37918	You can get your word on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37919	I would not agree in any sentence with the previous speaker. First of all, this is not an economic issue, this is a legal question, and we have to work it out right. All of what you said might be meaningful if there were no numerous court decisions. Recently, Greece's court is in a collective lawsuit, and a collective lawsuit is not allowed here, 77,000 people have sued Greece and won, are being called by the Greek court to the principle of justice and security. The same thing happened in Slovenia, same thing happened in Poland, same thing happened by the European Court of Justice. In the end, everything we do, these people will be able to complain about the competent European institutions and in the European Court will get us, only then they will not pay the banks, we will pay all of us from the budget, they will pay the Republic of Serbia from the budget, or all of the citizens from the budget, so this is a legal issue, not an economic issue. In legal institutes, you have numerous institutes guaranteeing the protection of people. Here you, your MPs criticised that in 2006, 2007 and 2008, Mladjan Dinkic, Milan Parivodic and others, Jelasic, who literally manipulated the citizens and recommended that they take these loans. That's where the accomplices were those business banks. Look, there's too much damage, these banks aren't at all a loss. No state has had any consequences since it solved it, no state. It's absolutely not true what you said, so there can only be pluses and benefits for the Republic of Serbia and for its citizens, who have saved themselves from certain death and destruction and a noose hanging over their necks. Ludi, let's figure out what we're talking about here. The banks have already earned money on these loans. They didn't have any expense on those loans, they never took on Swiss francs. You mention the library and the Eurobor, so did I show here two days ago, the European Commission and the Court in London, 2015 and 2016, punish a group of banks for building an illegal cartel that was set up by Eurobor and Libor. A total of 11.5 billion, only in these decisions still lasts against banks and responsible banks. These are the only ones who have made a deal, and the Eurobor and the Libor are built in with us in all the loans. If they're setting up and making artificial euribor and libor at the level of Europe, and we're installing it here in our loans, so that means we're being wrongly and set up. Are we going to apply the law anymore? Here is only the consequence, are we applying the law and the legal rules or are we under interest, because someone is powerful, has financial capital, and these are banks, laws interpreted according to their needs? Well, let the citizens die. That's all the point and all the consequences, people, just law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37920	By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37921	Dear colleagues, you essentially said at the beginning of your exposure that we were different because you're interpreting it from the legal basis, me from the economics. I mean, and the whole world probably, that this is the primary economic issue, legally, is the consequences. If what you're saying is true, then indexation, the exchange rate in international banking relations should be abolished and there isn't, with you, without you. You in parliament, I in parliament, in ten, a hundred years a foreign exchange clause will exist as it existed in 1785 and it will not change. Serbia's assembly can make a decision that it does not exist, Serbia's assembly probably made that decision in 1946, but it cannot function in the long term. The banking system doesn't depend on me, you, governor, it's based on principles. The exchange clause, indexation, is a thing that exists for hundreds of years, and there will be thousands of years. Everyone knew when he took credit that he could take it in dinars, that he could take it in euros, that he could take it in any foreign currency. Today you do, today you take credit indexed in euros, in Swiss, in dinars. The interest rate is completely different depending on the model you choose. Responsibility is personal to anyone who deals in the financial market. Banks exist as institutions to make money, it's nothing controversial. Free trade, competition in the banking sector, what the NBS does, reduces interest rates, never in Serbia have interest rates been lower, 2.9%, as a result of the work of the NBS, free competition, no arrangements, no pressure from the state, the Serbian Parliament has to change the system. We're different and it's nothing controversial, you have the right to your opinion. I've got it on me. I'm just not going to agree to any ideas that were both in 1946 and 1947, in 2008 and in Mr Jelasic, which cost Serbia and us both the opportunity to meet in the 2014 situation. I have the right as someone who believes in the economy, who may not even know how to run the economy, to believe that what is economic theory in banking is much more important than what I or any MP thinks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37922	We're going in a row, because everyone's up to the amendments. The word is Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37923	I thank the president. I would ask the previous speaker to show evidence of what a Serbian citizen is, at any time, on the basis of a loan agreement, was credited in foreign exchanges. All were won in dinars, and only the foreign exchange amount was indicated in the contract. We can discuss the legal issue, it's more of a legal issue than an economic one, but the state has allowed banks to rob citizens by contracts and payouts that are not in agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37924	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37925	We can have different opinions, but the law is the same for everyone. According to our Bank Liabilities Act, they have the right to the principal and the interest. The currency clause is illegal according to our legal regulations, you have to understand that. We had to change the law to make it possible. Since we haven't, what can I do for you? We have an even cleaner situation, because, you just said, the currency clause exists everywhere. Is there in Poland, Hungary, Austria, Greece, Slovenia and across the EU? There is. Since their competent authorities, by the mahmu of the courts, have said that the loans indexed in the Swiss francs are zero currency clauses and are considered loans given in national currency and that is that. You have to understand that means there's a possibility of a solution. They allowed it to be the laws, and we didn't have it, and they only had those contracts illegal and unfair, and they did it on the basis of that institute. We also have that they are illegal and not allowed. That credit is paid in euro, that credit is paid in Swiss francs you return to the currency you received. Secondly, the currency clause also applies to just international trade, to trade that involves buying goods and good, but here is crediting citizens. So, please, that's why this is a legal matter and a legal question. It's not the way we look at economic flows, it's how we're going to apply our laws that exist and, in the end of the line, how we're going to protect the citizens. Here, I call on you, I am not for Serbia's entry into the EU, you are, look at European practice, look at EU practice and apply what all other EU countries have done, mentioned earlier, 13 countries that have had this problem, all in the EU and solved everything, remained Serbia as an island. We're an island that doesn't solve, because here banks can do whatever they want and that's the point of the problem. Let us not come to the European Court of Justice to make us pay out of the budget, for we will certainly pay, but by that moment, who knows how many more people will be killed and destroyed. Well, do you know of various institutes that protect people from banks? Do you know that almost every country in the world is protected by over-indebted people who have come into the position of being over-indebted, even by their own guilt or by some objective reason, yet again they are offered protection. We don't have that kind of law, and we have freedom of credit. So here we have to think about the principle of justice, the principle of security, because the banks knew very well what they were doing. That is why they were punished, but unfortunately they did not suffer the consequences either in the EU, because they paid themselves well there, and they do what they want and they do what they want and today they do what they want. And it's not my fault either, but it's tragic because you and I have the power to end it and prevent it, it's just our will. But unfortunately, so far, there has been no will to stand up to those who have been sucking blood on us for 18 years and who have ruined us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37926	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a very interesting subject. So contracts between financial service users and banks were concluded on some legal business, at a time when it was not becoming legal regulation, or it did not regulate a particular area as regulated today. No, in this form that we're talking about here. It was an old constitution, and I have to remind someone of one part of those contracts, and then new, and then change, and then alignment, and so on, and so on. However, we now have a political and legal issue here. To clarify immediately, the political issue, as mentioned by someone, is to take over, and as has been resolved, say in Hungary or some other countries, which was that the state would compensate for the loss of the banks' exchange rates for contracts concluded by citizens. I don't think that's right. Now, just because of this imperfection of legislation, we're passing laws so that something like this doesn't happen anymore, but now I'm asking a question, and we all know it's impossible, retroactive application of the law. Retroactive law enforcement, we can establish her, but then we end up in front of international courts where we're going to pay for the damage we've done to someone. And with whoever gets a little right, they know I'm right. Now, the third institution is a judicial authority that appreciates the conditions under which the contracts are concluded, their legal basis, their level of validity, the abuse of the trust of one of the parties in the proceedings, the weaker parties, that is the citizen, etc., etc., not to mention. And the courts, as far as I can tell, started doing their job. Now, third thing, perhaps most important, why are you burdening us with this question in the congregation? Come out and support these citizens. I don't mind, but don't accuse us of not wanting to help them. We helped as much as we could on a voluntary basis and between the recommendations made by the Central Bank, but which they had to accept both sides. Maybe that's not enough, but the Central Bank can't get into a bond relationship between the two parties. That's what courts do. Neither can the National Assembly. That's what courts do. Should we apply retroactive laws? We can. We will benefit the citizens, but the banks will not lose anything, they will pay you again the same citizens through penalties before international courts in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Now, if we know all this, don't abuse the National Assembly for accusing others of some of the political legal and economic problems that have arisen. Give support, I don't mind, that means something to those people too. I am quite certain that the courts will comply with the laws, our laws and decisions of the international authorities, with which we have concluded agreements. But give us more, leave us, at least from the SNS we have nothing to do with it. It's no big deal. The biggest crisis was in 2010 when the crisis broke out, the economic crisis in Greece. At the time I didn't notice anyone, at the time it was the worst course of the franc, I think it went even 1 to 1 were franc and euro, almost. No one in those moments objected, everyone understood here in the Assembly, who at the time were that these were things that the state couldn't affect the way it was expected. He can't, because we're losing, we're becoming a legally insecure country. So we can help, by paying out of the budget, we can regulate legally that it never happens again, we can ask the courts to judge and bring judgments exclusively by law, but we can't get into the essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37928	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37929	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who has a 29,000-euro loan, I wonder, and I ask all of you - what if the course changes and the euro jumps suddenly and the franc falls? So does all of us who have borrowed loans in euros, by our own free will, with banks, need Parliament to ask them to regulate it? This is where my colleague used to tell most of the courts. We're not a court. Personally, I don't mind if our courts determine that the loans raised in the Swiss francs are not legitimate, that in some way they force banks to do so and that judicial decision obliges these banks. We're not a court. If we do something and get involved in court decisions, then the state bears responsibility and all damages to banks must be paid, as we have paid all the blames of earlier authorities and for Agrobank, Development Bank, etc. All their failures. This country paid, and this country has people's money. Should one nation take money to make up for another people's debt, and what happens if the currencies start changing exchange rates, then who will return these loans to the euro, if the Frank and the euro ratio changes in the opposite direction? Then what's it gonna be? Will the same savingsors ask you to move back to the francs? It all came about, as I recall, on the advice of Governor Shoskovic and I see no guilt and responsibility of this authority. Let the courts do their job. The Court of Appeal in Novi Sad has reached some verdict and every verdict that our courts make, we will respect, regardless of the courts of 2009, 2010, reformed by some very strange rules of the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37930	The word has Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37931	I never said that the ruling majority and the SNS are guilty of loans in Swiss francs, but I'm just speaking and appealing because you can do a lot to solve this problem. I can't. And I can do what I'm going to do, along with my colleagues, I'm going to go to that protest and give people support, like I always do. But be careful, first and foremost, that we understand each other, and by the laws that were in force at the time and by the laws that are in force now, the situation is clear. These contracts are nothing, there's no need for any new laws, no retroactive law enforcement, just to apply the law. That's the first thing. Second, does the National Assembly also have a control function to control the work of other branches of government? He's got function control. Watch out, the courts can't be excluded from the system of power. There are three branches of government, and then they match the courts, the American embassy, to which the courts of the people, what are we talking about? In the end, whatever court decides, the European Court and its practice is clear. Those contracts are nothing. I have contracts between business banks and courts, where the courts that are in blockade have VIP clients, where judges have 0.75% of the annual interest, they take cash loans, housing loans, and the bank can unilaterally replace those contracts, the third basic court, the Second Court, the Supreme Cassation Court, the people we're talking about? How can they judge you? What do banks pay millions of euros for lawyers? Well, he killed himself by a pair of Bogdanovic, Vasiljevic and Djordjevic, who was in that lawyer's office...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37932	You've spent group time, Your Honor. Group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37933	He kills himself from a couple representing banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37934	You've wasted group time. Do you realize that the judiciary is corrupt? I thank you. You've wasted group time. Don't use too strong words. The word is Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37935	Thank you very much, by amendment, and so are my predecessors. I think we've come to a stage of extreme demagogy and I agree that parliament is a place where you can talk about various topics, even when they're not strictly on the agenda, but that only makes sense if there's some facts being told. Here everything and everything on two or three sides has been said, let's regret the domestic banks that were destroyed in 2000. To remind my colleagues that these domestic banks, the patriots, were the creators of something called old foreign currency savings and the destruction of many families, and someone here talked about suicides and poverty. All this is true, it happened in the 1990s and all that, that old foreign currency savings and that Dafina and the "Jedha" savings were returned after the flow, precisely from the authorities you now call "the destruction of domestic banks". These domestic banks were, by the way, over-indebted and shut down by their creditors. They were strangers. This saved the state of Serbia, to inform you, in one specific way over two billion dollars at that time to the harm of the Chinese, Greeks, Russians, Germans, mahogany. That can also be confirmed by a team from the National Bank. It is true that loans were allowed in Swiss at some point. If I remember correctly, I think Jelasic was the governor and he spoke publicly as the governor of warning citizens not to enter those loans. For that you have footage from various televisions. By doing so, of course, the state cannot wash itself completely, but also incorrectly and the claim that the then governors, Shoskovic, I do not remember, may have already been late in his time, and for Jelasic I remember for sure. Is it necessary to help people who got into trouble because of loans indexed in Swiss? Yeah. There's more ways. One way is for them to exercise their rights through courts. I fully agree with the assessment of the judiciary, 90% of the judiciary is working under the pressure of the current government. So it's bad, and maybe it can be used badly at this point. What makes sense is that the state has the authority of its own power to convince banks to unilaterally, in agreement with clients, dramatically improve the terms of the return of loans in Swiss francs. How can you do that? So, as you all know, the state at all levels, both central and rural and local, has money, has budget funds, public enterprises, too. That money is in bank deposits, somewhere in the tool, some credits have been drawn from the public sector. It's huge money and, let me tell you Serbian, blackmailing banks, that either they'll make better conditions for clients who indexed their loans in francs, or they won't be deposited with these banks. I think that's the way to go. Of course the banks have made extra profits, of course the banks shouldn't fail, they should keep working, the ones that are businessable. I think there are too many of them on our market, but it's their job and it's going to be dealt with naturally, but generally it's a way for the state to talk, negotiate with banks and say -- there are no deposits with you if you don't do something to make these people who have been destroyed by your petty letters and obviously evil intentions, to help them. It can be done very simply, by having several more domestic banks or banks where the dominant influence of a state that can immediately, once, say -- we want to do it. For example, the Commercial Bank as an example. To go from there, to say that we're offering to cut debts for, not to take out a percentage right now, but with an easy analysis where the National Bank, of course, can help, we can come up with solutions that will be fair, fair, which are no wonder, because miracles are not in real life, but that can fix the status of people who are threatened by loans in Swiss francs, and not only in those francs, they're bad credits and in euros, it's the same thing, it's just this more popular demagogue with Swiss francs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37936	The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37937	Dear People's MPs, a lively discussion of who has outsmarted and who is in the war between banks and the population has developed over the past hour. Of course, there is no need to spend words, there will always be banks that will profit from each job, only the question of how many countries will succeed or want their mechanisms to protect the population from any incorrect business that banks offer to their tempting ads. In this case, I'm one of those who's been offered a tempting solution to take credit in Swiss. Fortunately, I took it for a short time, so I got out of it. Interests are different in different currencies and everyone has the right to choose which currency will be owed and how much interest he will have, or how much risk he will take in that business. On the other hand, the very fact that the banking sector has been growing for years or more than two decades is the most profitable branch of the economy in this country and every year the profits of banks are growing, clearly says that the banks and loans they give in Serbia are certainly not correct and are not market-regulated. The data can also be easily compared with the environment, the countries in the environment and the EU, convincingly the biggest profits compared to the number of plasmas and the height of plasmas and the most convincing interest, banks in Serbia hold. On the Finance Committee, speaking of the laws proposed by the National Bank, the Governor said that when it came to the Payment Card Act, or the heights of payment card fees, it was waiting years to regulate payment card fees, but that this obviously did not happen and that the National Bank has now decided to regulate the amount of fees by administrative measures, i.e. by law, which is certainly commendable. All the laws proposed today are a step forward and in this sense are commendable, as well as stabilising the financial market and reducing interest in recent years globally. So it's a confirmation that the National Bank has done a lot of things. However, when it comes to interest in general both the economy and the population, it is obvious that the market that has been operating here for at least 20 years has not regulated these interest rates and that these interest rates are too high. Much bigger, by 50% to 70% higher than interest in the environment, and certainly twice as much compared to EU countries. That's why bank profits are huge. It is also the task of the National Bank and the State that in cases where the market is not working, in this case I think that the market is not good enough to regulate interest rates, to apply those other perhaps less popular measures, but the state is there as a guarantee system, to provide citizens and security on the one hand and on the other hand to protect them from bad influence or unregulated market. There are numerous examples of huge fees that banks charge for everything and everything, and there's something I've been talking about on the Finance Committee, and I'm just going to mention a few things. The banks have figured out how to take money from the citizens in various ways, so you have a fee to maintain the accounts, a fee to close the accounts, a fee to issue checks, a check registration fee, a fee to unrealised checks, a fee to pay in the morning less, and an afternoon bigger, etc. I think that in this segment where different fees for bank services are invented, which are sometimes not so small, I think that the National Bank also has a commitment, as well as the possibility and space to regulate and review the size of these fees, and which are at all, and whether banks have the right to do so, and all in a function to protect citizens from one of the very interest-bearing approaches of banks to the population and businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37938	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37939	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, just for the sake of truth, I have to say here that it's absolutely incorrect that in 2000 and in a post-punctual period, domestic state banks were shut down because they were inequitable, inequitable, over-indebted and the rest. The banks were destroyed so a robbery privatisation could be carried out. Only when Beobanka, the Belgrade Bank, Invest Bank and these banks went into bankruptcy, could it steal and kidnap Serbian economy, businesses, companies, huge fixed assets, huge capital, for one or two euros, which the government that came in Serbia on 6 October did. Why did they destroy the SDK service, as we called it, or the payment service? If anything in Serbia was the highlight of success, efficiency, functionality, at that time it was the service. Nowhere on the globe, even in Japan, at that moment you had no opportunity to the moment when one company pressed a button, paid and transferred money, funds, other companies, that they were at the same time available to the other firm. If that were the case, then God would not have been the dericogue and all the lopurides that were here after 2000 left here with millions of euros of ownership in certain banks, which they allegedly worked for. In fact, they created a space for them to come simply to take over the business that the state banks had, and how well the state banks were doing in that period, it shows that the bankruptcy of Beobanka, as far as I know, has not yet been completed, and that the huge rankings from the 1990s are coming today, which have been realised. Therefore, for the sake of truth, state banks were destroyed in 2000 so that robbers could do what they did by 2012. Unfortunately, the wheel of history does not return, and it is only now that we come into a position for the banks to start functioning roughly as well as the once functioning payment service, which is that within relatively short deadlines, funds are transferred from one user to another user. When they were in power transactions lasted a few days, and you know what it means when someone gives themselves the right and the ability to turn our money around for two or three days, it might seem petty to you, but at the banking level in mega relationships it's huge sums of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37940	Goran Kovacevic, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37941	We in the National Assembly, as MPs, in fact, represent the citizens. If someone were to look at the Serbian Assembly on the side today, it would conclude that banks in Serbia are evil, none and that it does not work, based on the presentation of certain MPs. How do you comment that the credit activity of business banks with the population and economy has increased in the first few months 7.5%? So, Serbian citizens, businesses, trust these banks and enter credit relations of 7.5% more than in 2017. How do you comment on the fact that the MPL's, uncharging claims, are never smaller, 9.2%? Therefore, for loans taken from commercial banks, the economy and the population sector settles its obligations under the conditions defined by the contract. It is, of course, the merits of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, which has regulated the market for banking services and the functioning of free competition on the market. To refer to my predecessor's presentation, the Budgetary System Act clearly defines principles and rules, no longer exists the Republic budget, or local administrations that have deposits with business banks, all these financial resources are in the Treasury. This is because the state of Serbia no longer wants to keep its financial assets at business banks, so it takes those same funds at higher interest, and at the same time there is no more or less business indistinct relationship. It is pointless for Serbia to put pressure on business banks with certain mechanisms that are not clearly regulated by the National Bank and good business practice in line with the European Union. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37942	The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37943	Thank you. It seems that demagogy is growing with the weight of speakers. So, after October 5th, and October 5th was the end of an election process that ended on September 14th, and the result of those elections was admitted by that unfortunate man who was buried like a devil under some willow tree or I don't know where and where no one goes, so we don't question a coup or legal change of government. The banking system and the robbery privatisation have nothing to do with it. Privatisation is not a generic robbery but is a duty, as a result of various nonsense done earlier, from nationalisation to some social property that did not exist anywhere in the world except in Serbia. There was state property, but no social property. The privatisation process is a necessary evil due to the ideology that half of the MPs present here today swear on, and that's some kind of communism. The social accounting service, or as it was called afterwards, for payment traffic, as part of the National Bank, didn't exist anywhere in the world. That's enough reason for me to shut it down. The main reason was that various abuses were committed through the same service that is now being nailed into the stars as something perfect in both the single-party system and in the 1990s it was a place of abuse where state-owned power, state, interest groups could affect the legality of business. As for privatisation, there were, of course, criminal privatisations, no doubt about it, but the privatisation process itself is not criminal. Criminal privatisations were supposed to be convicted. The culprits for stealing in the privatisation process were supposed to be in jail. Those who carried out this process, which were a guarantee of the legal process, say, during my time as part of some government today, are your biggest feathers. Sinisha Mali was the head of the tender privatisation sector at the time I was Prime Minister and something before that, so he was my biggest guarantee to you that everything was perfect at the time. Because if it wasn't perfect, he should have been in prison a long time ago, not a finance minister. I really think it was okay in that period, after that, there was a mess with Beopetrol, but that's already 2005, 2006, not to get into it. Therefore, the state banks, those four, five large banks, failed because they did not operate on economic criteria and their shutting down was the law force. The criminal withdrawal of money from citizens who worked Milosevic's regime in the 1990s was resolved by returning the old foreign exchange savings and, I said earlier, even that of Dafina and Jazda, I was against returning to those who were saving to Dafina and Jazda because it was really their fault. If someone gave the money to Dafini or the Horse, then they should be punished, not taken from his mistake, to express myself very mildly. Thus, the 1990s are the time when state banks destroyed Serbian citizens, and thus they themselves were destroyed. Their shutdown was necessary. The arrival and creation of new private, foreign, domestic banks and other state-owned ones contributed to Serbia's getting a normal banking system. Privatisation as a necessity is generically legal, but it was not 24 but 224 criminal privatisations, but for not being convicted, or guilty of these actions, it is you who are now exercising power and those who have committed crimes, so you did not capture them and condemn them, since no one has been convicted for the last six to seven years of criminal abuse in the privatisation process. I want you to find a solution to all of us for people who have a problem with repaying loans, I repeat, they're not just in Switzerland, the problem is with those who are in the euro. It is certain that the state can find a way that is not illegal, to put adequate pressure on its authority on business banks, to make them give up parts of their extra profits, not profits, but extra profits, and to create conditions for these people to pay off the rest of their loans in a way that is such that they will not destroy their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37944	It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37945	President, I'm advertising article 27 on article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of the Republic of Serbia, given that you have failed to sanction the speech in the strictest way, and that speech of hatred of the previous MP who, if anything, should at least have a drink to the dead. On the other hand, he insulted nearly two million citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who voted in favour of the same man, whom he calls a dzijan or an unfortunate man. So close to two million citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if not more than that then voted for that man. On the other hand, all that is imputed to this government and the SPS, from that period, is actually a picture and an opportunity of the dossal authority, whose exhibit is just the speaker who spoke before me. Criminal privatisations have left bad and tragic consequences. Violent and tragic because of the establishment of a commercial cemetery by the Dossian authorities. In that economic cemetery, hundreds of enterprises were buried, which went bankrupt. The result of these bankruptcys and this economic cemetery is hundreds of thousands of people who remained unemployed, who remained literally on the streets. I don't even want to mention the number of privatisations that many, and not some, as the previous speaker suggests, were to be found behind bars. Behind bars because you don't know where the privatisation money is, where the money spent is who knows why, and that in the meantime, businesses are sold for a single dollar. The reminders for the sake of cement, Popovac and many others are thus privatized. I ask you to have the opportunity in the future, this which we point to and to impose the appropriate penalties in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37946	Thank you. I don't think I hurt a member of the 27th or 107th, and I also believe that you've abused the Rules of Procedure partially and for a replica you didn't ask for, and you had a basis to look for. So it's a mistake for you too, not only to the chairman who would take it far to me to censor the speeches of the MPs today, because the punishments would rain on all sides and we know what the session would look like then. If you want, most of them will vote. (Nedjo Jovanovic: No. I thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37947	I thank the chairman. Anyone who's finished a little school knows that the equation has a left and right side. If we take as a assumption that the amount of kilograms affects the amount of demagogy, then on the right hand side it should probably be said that the amount of alcohol affects hallucinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37948	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37949	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my fellow farmer is rarely a smart man, but rarely. So, as witnesses of that time, I have to say what tactics were and my disputes with them. What was the top-of-the-line tactics, which I supported as well as millions of citizens. We wanted to change. How did they deceive Serbian citizens? The state was withdrawing loans from the field. Credits were given to banks. The banks gave money to businesses. The economy was in debt to banks, and if it couldn't service the debt, the economy would have belonged to the banks. To prevent that, to gain capital, they did the following. They liquidated the banks so the economy had no one left to pay back. So the economy belonged to them, the banks were liquidated and space was reached for the placement of new banks, foreign banks guaranteed by the domestic state. And all that remains for the people is to pay the debts that would have been paid if the banks hadn't been liquidated, because the banks would have made up the assets of the economy to make up for the money and pay it back outside. The people remained a long, foreign bank space, and the economy became theirs, i.e. fellow farmers and his crew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37950	The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37951	I'm reporting by amendment, by briefly looking back at this debate. I had no intention of speaking, because for reasons that I have already explained here, I protested me and my colleagues against this way of amendment abuse where, in fact, all that we are discussing right now, we are going to go up to some amendments that have been submitted by other colleagues, to the first item of the agenda, and in fact, from most of the amendments of good or bad, smart or stupid, which the other MPs have submitted, will not actually arrive. It is not good and I think it is some kind of collapse of Parliament's dignity, but nevertheless, I would like to welcome the practice of the last ten days of being led by the Assembly where I see that it is allowed in a more tolerated spirit, the atmosphere to allow debate, so now as to take advantage of that opportunity. And that's where I'd like to appeal, that's where I end this part, sorry, for my colleagues to use less business advertising, and better, especially if we have the moody leadership and the presidency and the chairmanship of the Assembly, to use the opportunity for replication when it's possible to give an opportunity for a replica to some reasonable extent, and not to constantly draw on the story of the Rules of Procedure and thus, I'd say we're also further destroying the dignity of the Assembly. But it's really not the president's fault. So you better give more replicas, and less, I'd say, abuse of Rules of Procedure on abuse of Rules of Procedure. As for the basic reason why I came forward, I'm afraid that I can't agree with my fellow opposition, nor with my colleagues in power because I really and not only do I, but also with the people I trust, and with whom I have spoken all these years, I really do, and I would just like to say that, I share with citizens who still have the strength to watch these transfers, and all the less because of the practice we use and apply in the Assembly, so that these banks that have been liquidated, the state banks were not mature for liquidation. I wouldn't say it just fell out of the sky and accidentally came and that economic logic ruled. I have to disagree here with my colleague Zivkovic, because there is a letter from the IMF chief then, where directly from Mr Miroljub Labus, now the forgotten hero of the first years of our transition, after the October transition, is requested to liquidate those four or five banks. I would like to hear Mrs Tabakovic's comment on the subject, given that it is her area and that she, in her own time, criticised the very sharp measure, as well as the policy of the party that she belonged to at the time. So, I still thought back then, I think now, and I think it was a bad measure and I believe that it has contributed greatly to the collapse of the Serbian economy, and I can say the rest of the economy. Of course, I can't say, nor agree with those who represent that before that everything was great and idyllic and that only some of these DOS villains came and then a paradise state, a economy and an economy that functioned, robbed. No, of course it was before that and that those who had acquired the assets before 2000 had only increased them since 2000, and it is hardly possible for a political set or one name to honor that collapse. There were a lot of assistants and midwives at the job. But, however, political logic understandably is trying to transfer the burden of responsibility to someone else, a predecessor or someone who came later, but I'm afraid citizens don't have much use for it. So, specifically, in terms of these state banks, I don't think they should have been abolished in this way, as in terms of Swiss and not only Swiss, I think, and I'm stressing again, and the people I trust also think that the exchange clause is illegal, unconstitutional and illegal, and that it's unfair. At the very end of the line, even if the lawyers agreed that it could survive, it's kind of unfair and I think it would be better for both banks, and in the long and medium term for trust in banks, if it was abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37952	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37953	Thank you very much. This is a replica, since I've been mentioned by my colleagues in a negative context, twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37954	But your name wasn't said.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37955	Yes, how is it not? He said-- colleague Zivkovic. Check it out. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37956	But, colleague Zivkovic, that sounds very nice, not exactly a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37957	Well, well, what do you need, to throw a shoe at me in order to be a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37958	You have your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37959	I'm very glad there's one debate like this, with a good little memory, a little memory. So, the IMF had no influence on the Dossage Authority ever, and to remind you that the Dossage Authority lasted until November 2003, when the formal disbandment of that coalition was carried out. I chaired the last DOS session. Therefore, when you talk about DOS, you speak until November 2003. At that time, the IMF and the World Bank, let's not celebrate the role of politicians at the time, received a six-seven billion-euro write-off. So the IMF was doing some kind of help. Not everything they say is being listened to. For example, they asked for electricity to be collected sometime in April 2003, the Serbian government refused and found other ways to do these effects that the IMF expected from an increase in electricity prices without an increase in electricity, by reducing costs in the EPS itself. As for the banks, they were dead back in the '90s, in different ways. First, there were great hyperinflations, bombings, various wars we didn't make but we lost them, huge costs for everything and everything. The economy was destroyed in the '90s. Let's take an example. Let's say that the colleague who spoke before me, that he was a tycoon who stole some money somewhere, came to Serbia and let him buy a good company cheap. Why would he destroy her? If it's a good company, then you're investing further, making more profit from that dirty money that you're out of gold, blood, or I don't know what you've done. So you're not destroying it. That's the minimum of logic. Companies who had no survival failed, regardless of their singing hymns about their place in world trade, production, etc. If it had been for these companies, they would have survived today. Those who did were still alive today, despite privatisation, such as the entire tobacco industry, such as beer production, such as cementers. The only good company at the time was sold because it was "Telecom", and then the Dossom Authority, I speak from October 5th to November 2003, means two governments, one was run by Zoran Djindjic, and one was run by me, we bought Telecom from Greeks and Italians and returned it to him today as 100% owned by the state of Serbia. And the lovebirds and other birds sold it for small money back in the '90s. So let's do today's agenda. And if we're dealing with this whole economic situation, let's at least use facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37960	Thank you. It's the governor's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37961	I'd be happy to continue to deal with topics that are on the agenda, but there are things that a man simply can't go through or cross. There's two things. The Law on Liabilities, Article 395 and the Foreign Exchange Act, explicitly allow for the possibility of the existence of a foreign exchange clause and no question arises, it is simply untrue to say that it is prohibited. What's more important and what I'm trying to say is that in Serbia, the past is uncertain and not just the future, so I'm going to remind all of us. After the Friday changes in 2000, at the end of 2001, the Federal Assembly adopted a Law that was only a few months later published in an official publication called "International Contracts", I think that the number of the official vote was 18, in September 2001, and some long awaited by publication, where the Assembly ratified most of the then ruling DOS International Fund of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where out of the promised six billion dollars came from six million dollars, of which 4.250,000 went to consulting services, and this petty difference between four and six was intended for the purchase of equipment where the then-decidedly drawn institutions would be held to implement privatisation, starting with the agencies and their competences.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37962	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37963	Can I, as a proposer, finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37964	I'll give you two more minutes later. The rules are a little weird. We all have two minutes each. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37965	Thank you, President. Article 107. Dignity...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37966	MP, but your group doesn't have time. On what grounds did you answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37967	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37968	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Then you must raise the Rules of Procedure, so I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37969	Not entering into the debate of our legislation, I think we all have a moral obligation as citizens of Serbia to protect the economic interests of citizens and national interests of the state. An example of this could be the neighbouring Hungary that won't allow any contracts or loans...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37970	Ambassador, I appreciate your attitude, but you've missed... Srjan Nogo has wasted your time. You're now discussing this topic that we've opened up under the amendment, but you have no right to do so. You have the right to have hurt the Rules of Procedure, but not to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37971	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37972	I thank you, too. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37973	I could've gotten a replica, but let it go to group time. Just so I can relate to what the governor said. At the end of my presentation, I said, even if, behold, you explicitly claim that this is not illegal, I claim that in any case it is immoral and unacceptable, it does not necessarily oblige the legislator, the bank, the government, but I would use these minutes and a half, two examples of one of my colleagues, the acquaintance of the good one, I have no right to mention his name, but believe that there are many such fates. The man is an economist, a doctor of the economy, and he wrote articles. It's a serious expert, a scientific worker. Maybe you've heard of him. He took a loan in Swiss. That man, since I met him a few years later, was desperate. I don't even know if he's active in this initiative, this association of Swiss credit users. We can say, they're guilty themselves, I fell, I killed myself, but it's not quite like that. So, if we have in place a law that is explicitly immoral, if it's harmful to one part of the country's citizens... (Disabled Peacephone.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37974	I didn't touch the microphone. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37975	I don't know what happened, it really just went off. I'm done. So, I simply state that as an eclectic example of the harmfulness and immorality of these contracts. If we had an example of countries in the environment, which are a bunch, they found some solution and they were looking for that solution, then I just think it would be a duty or obligation, even if it were moral, to look for a solution in that direction. That's one thing. And secondly, I would not go back to what my colleague Zivkovic said, nor to give him a cause for replication, but only to remind my colleagues from the ruling majority that, in my case, a more or less justified criticism, the economic policy that was led after October 5th, the fact that now in power both in government and in the most important institutions and countries, from the government of Serbia to the National Bank of Serbia, many representatives, namely the leader of the DOS, or those authorities from the period after 5 October, not only Mr Mali but also Mr Vesic, Mrs Dragutinovic, who is in the National Bank, etc. Some are good, some are bad, but I want to say when it's so casually spoken, you "supervised", October 5th, etc., I have no reason or interest to defend that authority and the way she ran politics after October 5th, but we can't do a little more, so 20 years after that, we keep pulling out half a decade and over half after this current government comes in, where we constantly extract ourselves to the damage that some predecessors have done, a team before those predecessors actually sit in the current government. And you owe me, you don't owe me, but I'd like to ask you to comment on shutting down those banks in 2000 and 2001. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37976	Replica. Wait a minute, the replica has a governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37977	Time has stopped me from telling you right away. So that's when an international contract was made, the assistance of the trust fund, which was resolved on one side, was drawn up a privatisation where the local authorities had to announce something to buy or purchase, and the value of over 50,000 marks then had to report to this donor who gave them six million dollars. This illustrates the relationship between protecting the interests of the state you represent and agreeing to what others offer you. Today we have a completely different situation. We are talking about partner relations with the IMF, and for the banking sector, the International Treaty published in Official Journal number 18, don't hold my word, I think 18, has envisioned the privatisation of the banking sector in one sentence, the method of cutting from case to case. So much for the responsibility of those who have achieved a debt reduction that has been reduced to the state, but no business bank according to specific debtors has reduced those obligations to international lenders, but has required payment to the last dinar, dollars. I know that, and I have the paperwork for that, because that's what I've been doing. Very irresponsible and superficial, perhaps with the confidence that the world will help. Experience has shown how devastating that was, but it is up to us to deal with it all together today, and of course in the general interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37978	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37979	Yeah, it means a few things. First of all, it's absolutely pointless for me to re-prove facts. Google some people, I mean, you can get information very easily. So the debt was reduced by six billion then. Now the co-operation with the IMF was the same as today. You can't talk to the IMF. It's awesome. When someone else talks to the IMF, it's treason. When the president of the state or president here accepts an African ambassador, it's phenomenal. When someone from the opposition talks to any ambassador, it's treason. Come on, cut your hypocrisy a little bit. Privatisation for forgetful and deliberately forgotten began in 1992. It was the Law on Turning Social Property into other forms of property, if I remember the second name of the law well, and in 1997 another law was passed from that area, the Law on Privatisation. I mean, if I remember correctly, the governor was then a privatisation minister. If it was a privatisation and she's a difolt, what would you say in Serbia, a robbery, then let's see what it was like in the 1990s. And if it isn't, which I don't think it is, then we should go from case to case and solve each case individually. The banks of that big, so the White Bank, the South Bank, Invest Bank and another one, I can't remember now, went bankrupt and took huge debts to foreign partners. I said from which state, because in the 1990s the foreign associates of these banks, those who gave loans, who paid something, could not have guaranteed the state of Yugoslavia, or the state of Serbia, because Yugoslavia, or Serbia, was under sanctions, and then their claims could not be charged.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37980	Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37981	Based on the direct calling and mentioning of the laws on which privatisation was made. You said it well in 1992, 1997, but you skipped 1994 key, when based on the DSS amendment, you were sitting in parliament and I in that old building, completely annulled all the effects of privatisation. In 1994, there was evidence of that too. About how much we have advocated change and whether privatisation itself was the goal or the achievement of a more efficient economy. The law which applied the SRS in which I participated is a law which was inherited and which had two key shortcomings – non-mandation and unfeeling. But for the privatisations that I conducted for two and a half years on behalf of the party at the time, not a single spot, not a single disputed privatisation, not a single participant of the government by the SNS or involved, and if it were, you would have so well inherited it since 2000, when they were guilty and people who were able to do business and work, unlike us today, who are doing something and can contribute and are not scarred, we are putting into function what is our common interest. At that time, privatised companies "Metalac", "Technogas", "Apatian brewery", are the most successful privatisations that still today are examples of ways in which privatisation is not its own purpose, but privatisation that should mean not destroying what is called production, which came later. Why did I say that the problem is that banks continued to demand debts from legal persons, even though the state was being written off? Just as it served as the basis for privatizing more than 15 state-owned banks, which were later sold. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37982	No more replicas, only if you want the amendment, even if this... (Zoran Zivkovic: I understand female solidarity, but such cruelty towards me. Today is an extraordinary day. Do you want the amendment or not? (Zoran Zivkovic: I can by amendment. ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37983	If it's easier on the amendment. I didn't say anything bad about that part of privatisation from 1997 to 2000, and I don't know what you're defending yourself for? Now I'm gonna have to go back and study that part. I thought it was all right back then, mostly because there was nothing. It was except for those three, maybe there was another 10 privatisations. Total traffic below 100 million marks. Therefore, otherwise, the "Apatian brewers" stocks were sold for more money in 2003 than was sold after a few years. Four hundred and a few million euros was paid by Inter Bruv, the "Apatino brewery", and the NIS was given to the Russians to protect Kosovo and I don't know any such delusions, for about the same amount of money. So let's just think about it a little bit. It's the responsibility of those who led the state back then, of course, there's no doubt about it. There was, say, some Dinkic you were raising, looking out for, petting. I replaced him from governor of the NBS, me, because he was hanging out with a postman's savings lady. National, I'm sorry, with the National Savings. So, are there any innocents? Hardly. Are there half-innocents? Not at all. The question is, has anyone done anything with conscious intent and it's obvious that it's been done in the 1990s and the last five or six years, or has something been done in the context of an opportunity in the given environment and the given moment? On that part, the other part, I can be absolutely proud. Here I am, if I recall correctly, 15 years of any authority. No one is, except that some like to hear my name and say something else, there are au and av, av and some other ones, no one filed any criminal charges, let alone something over it. Proud of post-five-octo-octobaric doss power by the end of 2003. Dot.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37984	And point to this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the title of the draft law by Mr. Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Amendment Bill, MP Bosko Obradovic submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure, he rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. (Zoran Zivkovic: We have a situation. There's no power. There's no power? So this is natural lighting. (Zoran Zivkovic: Did you pay for the electricity? ) It is paid regularly. We're waiting for the service to let us know if it's some kind of malfunction. I'm setting a five-minute break. I'm staying here to get information. A five-minute break, and then we'll switch to the aggregate and we'll have electricity and we'll work. [[after breaks]] On the title above Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37986	If Mrs. Tabakovic had proposed this law three years ago, when he was practically and finished for the assembly procedure, he might have used it to pay for something and to choose on one of the Frankfurt free shops Meho Omerovic, so he wouldn't have to commit that shame and petty theft or possibly explain himself, since he was in a set of these laws, that he could use a payment card. But, of course, it's a pathological liar and someone who has shamed himself, above all, himself, and, therefore, wronged the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, misusing the diplomatic status and passport that he showed when he was stealing from the Frankfurt Free Shop. As far as possibilities are concerned, I'm going to talk about it now, Mrs Tabakovic, that this law provides both legal and physical persons with the possibility of making such contracts at a distance. Here, the example works, I don't want to sound like a commercial, but a reliable source tells me, for example, "Unika Insurance", which is one of the biggest insurance houses, a very small number of legal entities are defined for any online arrangement and the conclusion of such a kind of contract. Usually, an application question is made about what is offered, so you are contacted by an agent that appears specifically in the company, in that company, without talking about farmers who registered their farm households, this is all still foreign to them. It's about that, and that's what all these other companies that are dealing with in some way by promoting this kind of business on the Internet are going to tell you, again, not to mention one of the biggest in Serbia, which is strictly defined, and that's what this website is called, that this type of insurance is done, that the people know absolutely nothing of it. If he doesn't know a simple citizen, he'll hardly know those who have businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37987	Thank you. Will you, Mrs. Radet, waste your time as deputy head of the parliamentary group, after we have received notice that you have been elected deputy instead of No Sarovic? Here you go. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37988	We have been listening here for a long time, which mainly referred to banks, between MPs of the former, former government and this current government and indeed cannot escape from the fact that our state banks, Serbian banks, were destroyed during DOS and that the main player in the destruction of these banks was Mladjan Dinkic. I remember well, we all remember that Jorgenka Tabakovic was the biggest critic of what Dinkic was doing at the time. Of course, Mladjan Dinkic has to be held responsible for this at some time and he can't, he simply can't run away from it, or he won't be able to escape. The fact is, even the current governor hasn't changed a course when it comes to the attitude of citizens and banks. All our regulations and functioning of the National Bank are absolutely in the interest of banks. We have a situation where banks go deaf about a judicial verdict and say it in public and no one responds to it. The National Bank isn't responding, so if they're going to run away, they're going to run away. foreign banks because they have to respect the judicial judgments of our courts? Let them run. As they come, let them go. So it must function so that Serbian citizens must be the priority of each segment of the state, and of course the National Bank, which has not been the case so far. The only thing good about this law is the fact that now, without a problem, they will be able to use payment cards abroad. If it had been for this law, maybe Meso would have paid with a pay card instead of stealing in a free shop cosmetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37989	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The first amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Milorad Mirčić and jointly by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37990	Here, this is about something that's relative, and that's security when it comes to paying at a distance, or a system that works. No one can guarantee that it is 100% security, but it is obvious that the National Bank has been brought with the idea not only that, conditionally said, the technical issue that is being applied in Europe. The National Bank, first of all, wants to contribute with these measures to making as much money as possible to get out of our country to have it under control and that's done through business banks. Here, in particular, the target group is those who pay the funds. We know that over two billion is still income, pouring money from abroad. This money was under less and less control in one period because other channels were sought, could not do so and now the National Bank is trying to, in some ways, establish control. What is the essence of this whole discussion, which is being led here, is that we see for ourselves that there is not so much guarantee for some security, because when it comes to the interests of citizens, then the institutions of this state, depending on who is in power, are rapidly distanced. When it comes to protecting the interests of citizens, this distance is literally being created here as if the state were not in continuity, as if this government had nothing to do with, or the National Bank with its previous furniture headed by the National Bank. Remember well to save foreign exchanges, i.e. those who actually used loans in Switzerland, they were offered explanations by the former finance minister and the former, unfortunately, governor who entered the People's Bank with weapons, Mladjan Dinkic, who explained publicly in his performances which are all the advantages of using credit in Swiss francs. We now simply have a situation to distance an institution called the National Bank of Serbia. It's simply, he says, a problem that they didn't start, neither begins, nor ends the National Bank with this. Security, after all, exists in this House. We cannot ignore the fact that even in this House there are people who are quite wicked, who have even fallen so low to muddle both this country and this parliament, going abroad stealing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37991	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are the members of the former and current regime as well, I would say, very negatively, certainly with the right, Mladjan Dinkic and Labus. His direct descendant, Marijan Risticevic, is Zorana Mihajlovic. She's their wolf descendant, so then we express one fear for the citizens as well. Because of the citizens, I'm a little bit, since one topic has been opened here, which is a wish, I suppose, that everyone sincerely wants to help the citizens of Serbia who took or made their credits in the Swiss currency, Frank. Because of them, I want to say that the National Bank is a free institution, independent, that it does not depend much on the government, or in direct connection with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The National Bank Governor is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The National Bank's report is submitted to the MPs, so if so, if they were truthfully speaking to each other, then the National Bank should continue to explore how it could help the citizens of Serbia. They deserve it. I'm a little surprised when a colleague says -- that's the problem, that's not the problem with Serbia, that's the problem with citizens. Whose citizens are they? The problem of citizens is the production of raspberries and everything is the problem of citizens. In the end, these citizens are very helpful in helping this country, as you say, flourish. Is there some responsibility to all the political factors for these citizens? As my colleagues pointed out, that this law was brought before, when it was prepared, then certainly it could, I suppose Meho Omerovic had money or had the opportunity to realise that card remotely, to conclude a financial assistance contract and then would not come into a situation to embarrass his country, the National Assembly and all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37993	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Do you want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if this law on the protection of users of financial services is the happiest law ever chosen for such a fundamental debate. I think it's a shame that the other laws in this area won't be able to talk, and I think they were grateful for this discussion and for the amendment intervention. The first member of this law I have submitted to the amendment I think it should, it might sound better, if it were – that this law regulates the conditions and the way of implementation, as well as the protection of the rights of users of financial services when contracting services using means to communicate remotely. The existing legal framework in the area of the protection of financial services users in the Republic of Serbia is complemented by the introduction of new provisions aimed at establishing uniform principles for all types of remote financial services. It is also commendable to the promoter's intention to protect the users of these services, as well as to strengthen mutual trust between the providers of these services and their users. All of this would make sense, and we would like to thank that domestic law does not impose compliance with EU rules in this area, particularly with Directive 2002/65 of the EU, so it is in this text on harmonisation, which concerns all types of financial services: banking, credit, insurance, pension, investment, payments, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37995	Ambassador Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37996	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when he is a member of the 1st. The draft law on the subject matter, which regulates the subject matter of the law, is the amendment that we have submitted to the amendment of a complete member because we have thus specified and specified the basic provisions of this proposal, which relate to the subject matter of the proposed law. The amendment that we have submitted - this law regulates the rights of users of financial services when contracting services using means of communication at a distance, as well as the conditions and means of achieving and protecting the rights and interests of users. As can be seen from the proposed amendment text, we have put the accent on the protection of rights and that of all rights in favour of users, as well as the ways and conditions of achieving them. However, when it comes to the protection of rights, I cannot help but look back on the current situation. Soon we will discuss in this house the proposals for laws concerning the rights of national minorities. You know the position of the national minority in Serbia, especially Roma members, and that for years the Roma has been working intensively towards inclusion. Members of the SRS who are members of certain Roma associations are actively working to improve their social status, to describe. We conduct various projects, computer descriptors, which are children of school age, and so are those over 15 years of age and a variety of other forms of education. The Assembly Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality is an organ that deals with precisely these issues, but what devises the work of this committee and the efforts of all of us who are actively engaged in and are trying to help members of the Roma national minority overcome the various life problems and discrimination, which they are exhibited on a daily basis, is the president of this assembly work, Meho Omerovic, who was caught stealing perfume, lipstick and certain creams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37997	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Palovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, MEP Marija Janjušević submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37998	The amendment, which was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group, only wishes to make certain clarifications to the text of the law itself. In essence, given the fact that the law is supported in general and given that there are indeed exceptional quality solutions to this law, we have amended only users of services we wanted to in some way further protect and that the text of the amendment is precise precisely in the direction of that protection, that is, their excessive legal certainty. If, Madam Governor, you do not think that the text of the amendment should be corrected, consider, however, the explanation of our amendment in terms of whether it could be compatible with what you have already stated in the proposal in terms of upgrading the text itself on the one hand, and on the other hand perhaps more effective practical application, direct application of the law in practice when it comes to service users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u37999	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dr Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38000	Dear citizens, especially those who are currently protesting in front of the Constitutional Court of Serbia over criminal and theft loans indexed in the Swiss francs, I would like to welcome you all, and of course to point out that the proposed amendment actually wanted us to improve the laws proposed here by the governor of the NB Republic of Serbia, and in the previous case, it was legally impossible for my proposal for an amendment to be renamed on behalf of which would be only right, which is the law on the bank robbery of Serbian citizens. So basically you here, Madam Governor, are not answering any questions that we opposition MPs ask you. I agree with you, after six years of your authority, you're starting to protect a little banking clients from bank robberies, but we have a big problem with that. First, where have you been for six years and who will be responsible for all the robbery in these six years since you are governor of the NBS exposed to Serbian citizens by banks? Secondly, as stated in one good definition by one of the banking clients' associations, you do not address the problem with this law, but simply try to minimise the consequences of the negative that the problem is causing. That's the point we're pointing you to in this whole debate. You practically didn't answer any of our only questions. Do you want me to repeat them? Why is Serbia the only country in the environment and in Europe that has not solved the problem of the over-indebted citizens who are being jailed under green thieves' loans indexed in Swiss francs? Simple question. Everyone else has solved, 13 out of 14 countries that have placed these loans, and only we are not. They've all been declared illegal, illegal, dishonest and thieving, and you're making one big substitute for thesis. I have to remind you of that. We are not asking from the Serbian Dvora Movement that the problem of citizens who are in debt slavery and who are no longer able to service such theft loans is poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, but are asking for a spillover to banks, to the thieving green banks that robbed those citizens. The National Bank of Serbia allows it. The Serbian judiciary allows it. That's the problem. In other countries, it's settled. The second question -- why are loans in Serbia indexed in foreign currencies, not in dinar, and when will Serbia's citizens be stopped on currency clauses? It's a very simple question. I asked you last time, and you kept it quiet. How did Hungary transfer all credits indexed in foreign currencies to domestic currency forint? Can you do that? You got it. How did Poland further tax the extra profits of banks in Poland, so all banks continued to operate normally in Poland? Can you do that? You got it. What are you not doing? That's a question and a reason why you can't and you won't answer any of my questions. When will banks in Serbia be punished for unfair business practices and looting citizens at imaginary costs for the processing of loans, maintenance of accounts, various fees and hidden fees on which they earned 61m euros in 2015 alone? That's where I'd like to draw your attention if you hadn't finally protected the citizens of Serbia. On the contrary, you haven't even principled serious protection from a bank robbery. Let me tell you what it looks like. The main robbery of Serbian citizens is precisely at hidden costs. That's when they give you credit, and then they charge you an example of the cost of processing the loan, i.e. that loan, which you imagine is what, not one time, but a percentage of 0.5 to 3% of the total amount of your loan. What does that mean? You take a loan of 50,000 euros, 1,000 euros are examples for the cost of processing loans. What's that? Robbery, classic robbery. I can read to you further, this is the 2015 data when the banks earned 61m euros. I've already told you, and you haven't answered my question, is it true that banks have about 500 different fees and fees that they charge? Is it true that one third of the bank's income is these commissions and fees that are mostly robbery? Is it true that in last 2017 they made a profit of 500m euros, which means that one third of the fees and fees, which is a classic robbery? To read to you what it looks like - maintaining a current account of 200 dinars a month, delivering copies of the receipts by 40 dinars, additional copy of 50 dinars, additional copy by fax of 200 dinars, sending a notice of minus 200 dinars, sending a note before the sued 1,500 dinars, replacing damaged banknotes in foreign currency 4%, processing credit claims up to 2.5%, sending a credit card notice of 100 dinars, issuing checks 10 dinars per check, a commission to buy foreign currencies from 0.3 to 1%, issuing a certificate from regular banking business 300 dinars, pensions from other countries 1 to 1.2%, transfer of funds under a contract to buy 1,500 dinars, etc. So there's not one possible transaction where they don't rob us. To prove to you what it looks like when the judiciary works, I'm going to give you an example of the Somboro High Court, which has declared this amount of loan to be illegal. So, what did he do? He ordered the bank to make up for all the damages to the bank client, to pay him back everything she took away from him by, to say, that credit-processing bill, plus a tight interest, plus court costs. What do we do now? Does this mean that all loan deals were illegal, thieving and that any citizen of Serbia could sue the bank and charge for being illegally taken away from them with just giving credit. Credit costs, you know better than I do, but you don't want to tell the public, they have to be included in the interest rate, there's no additional cost of loan processing and theft between 0.5 and 3% throughout the year and decades of credit payments. I've already given you an example, you take 50,000 euros, a thousand euros in the cost of the loan. Wait, what's that? Thief. Now, that's where we come to the essence, it's not possible for a Serbian citizen who takes credit, Mrs Tabakovic, to finish economic and legal college, and only then to sign a loan agreement. He can't be the one who knows everything about it, and he can't be the one who can protect himself from a bank robbery. The two institutions should do this -- the National Bank of Serbia and the Serbian judiciary, and neither of them are doing the job. You're obliged to protect a banking client from a bank robbery and you're not doing it. To tell you how it's done in other serious countries, I don't know if you've been informed that these days, on June 10th in Switzerland, will be a referendum, and you know on what topic -- whether banks will only borrow money that really exists, not any speculative money. Very interesting, very interesting. You know what the Sovereign Money Movement says, which is usually the initiator of this referendum in Switzerland? Here's what I'm quoting, and I'm telling you, they say like this -- dear central bank, remember why you were founded. Now, that's the point of the story. You are not founded to protect foreign banks and bank robbery, but to protect Serbian citizens from such bank thieves and monopolys. You heard how it was done by the European Commission, which you admire -- four banks punished worth a billion and a half euros for joining banking cartels and robbing citizens in Europe. When were they punished in Serbia? How many have been punished in Serbia? How many have been punished in Serbia? You may have punished them for something symbolic, and they earn 500m euros each year in profits. Well, when are you finally going to punish them like that? To share a little bit and the bank's burden of crisis with citizens and economics, not that banks are getting richer as citizens are getting poorer. Well, something's not gonna be right and it's not gonna end well. That is why today I publicly support this protest by the CHF Association of Serbia, which unfortunately ends early hunger strike in front of the Supreme Cassation Court. The second thing done today by the Serbian Movement Group of the Dveri, we have submitted to the assembly procedure a request for the establishment of a assembly polling committee, which will finally determine who is behind the bank robbery, especially when loans are indexed in Swiss francs. You're saying, I can only agree with you in part, that it's not your fault, and it's not exactly your fault. Those who are guilty and responsible today sit in your power. You have recently appointed the man responsible for the robbery privatisations of DOS as finance minister, his name is Sinisa Mali, and he was the right hand of Mirko Cvetkovic and Aleksandr Vlahovic. Well, it's not the only case, I have an example for the governor. Vice Governor, please pay attention to this, just to deny you all how hypocritical you are, Vice Governor of the National Bank of Serbia Diana Dragutinovic is in office and in the leadership of Jorgenka Tabakovic. You know who Diana Dragutinović is? It is the vice governor of the National Bank of Serbia from 2004 to 2008, which is the finance minister from 2008 to 2011, at a time when all these catastrophic robbery privatisations, loans invested in Swiss francs, etc. So, the person responsible for what people are committing suicides today, because they can no longer serve their loans in Swiss francs, you are today holding the vice governor of the National Bank of Serbia, as you place Sinisha Mali as finance minister. Then how come you're not responsible? You directly who participated in the destruction and robbery of this country today are promoting, re-emerge to the most responsible places. Well, who's responsible? They're not responsible for me, believe me, you're responsible. You're giving them a new chance that after those previous robberies, they're robbing this nation and the state again, and that's the basic problem we're facing here. When's the last time anyone's gonna answer? For the end, a few more questions. When will citizens be legally protected from banking terror, or when will a law be passed on the protection of over-indebted families, which would imply the protection of the family home from confiscation by public executioners in the event of a declaration of personal bankruptcy? When will the government finally resolve the question of who is responsible for the destruction of domestic banks and money laundering in bank robbery privatisation? So, is it normal, I repeat, that in the time of the global economic crisis, banks are getting rich and citizens are poor? When will they be held responsible for tax evasion? Itd, etc. When are you going to stop this high-level corruption that judges are getting special loans from banks to judge in favour of banks in cases where banking clients are damaged? Look, it's corruption at the highest possible state level. So the bank directly corrupts the judge that when a bank damaged client comes to court, he judges in favour of the bank by giving judges the most favourable loans that no Serbian citizen can get, just a judge. Do you think banks are some humanitarian institutions, so they especially like judges and therefore give them the most favourable loans in Serbia? No, they give them to judge not by law, but by the interest of the banks. Do you realize it's the heart of crime and corruption in this country? Justice and the banking cartel. If we don't deal with it, we have no chance of resuscitating and recovering neither domestic economy nor institutions in this country. And that's my message. Answer one question at last. So, I admit that you are doing this law minimally to protect consumers, i.e. financial services users from bank robbery. I've already told you and I'll repeat, it's just a patch of cancerous early Serbian banking. You have to catch that banking hydra and deal with that thieving and that crime of banks in Serbia, and you don't want it or you can't deal with them or you work for their interests, and you answer me what it is. What you're doing is not a solution to a bank robbery. You must not be able to protect Serbian citizens because you would stand up to banks, because you would have to deal with bank monopolies, cartels and thieves. I ask you, here you go, here you go, people are starting a hunger strike today, Mrs. Tabakovic, because of you and the Supreme Cassation Court, who won't make any decisions he has to make and that the loans indexed in the Swiss francs are declared unfair, illegal, illegal and thieving, as in all 13 of the 14 countries where they were placed. You tell me -- the only one Serbia is protecting bankers and thieves who have placed such theft loans? Or, if you don't think so, here, I would also suggest to the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandr Martinovic, that our proposal be adopted for an additional item of the agenda and that we form a assembly survey committee that will examine exactly that case of credit indexed in Swiss francs. Well, let's see who's responsible. Who was the governor of the National Bank at what time? Who was the finance minister? Who was in charge of the government? Who recommended these loans? Who didn't point out the risks that citizens have if they took those loans? Itd, etc. If you have nothing to hide as the ruling majority, let's together form this survey board and determine who robbed the citizens of Serbia, and one of these sits as the vice governor of the National Bank of Serbia in your current leadership of the National Bank of Serbia. So you're protecting those who directly influenced robbery privatisations and robbery loans indexed in Swiss francs. It is time to tell the full truth to the Serbian citizens who robbed them and that they are responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38001	You've wasted your time as an authorized representative of your group. Replica, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38002	I didn't quite understand what the completion of the agenda was, since the session had already begun. As for who robbed, well, Mr. Obradovic, you were involved in the robbery of Serbian citizens, who you are diving crocodile tears today. These loans to, as you say, the Swiss, were not taken at the time of the term of office of Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank, but at a time when you were funded by the DSS and DS, a little through the Colubara, a little through the Ministry of Diaspora. That's one thing. The other thing is, I haven't seen a bigger hypocrite in my life than Mr. Obradovic. Here, Mrs. Tabakovic, you know, those who say - it's illegal, it's an immoral currency clause, it needs courts to react, it needs Jorgenka Tabakovic, as governor of the National Bank to react, etc. In 2010, Boška Obradovica's MP, Mrs. Marija Janusevic, concluded a contract with the president of the Indji municipality on the provision of press clipping services. In Article 5 of that Treaty, be careful, it writes – the client recognises the service provider, the service fee provided for in this Treaty for the total costs in height, and the amount of the fee is expressed in euro. In euros. Not in dinars, in euros. So, then Bosko Obradovic stands up and says – here, will Martinović, will Jorgenka Tabakovic, will Vukic do anything? What do we do? What did you do with Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic, Jelasic and all those who made you and all those who funded you? And then you answer, you who say you'll join the citizens' protest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38003	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38004	Explain to them why you were funded before you went to those protests. Why were you funded and in what way were those whose mandate these citizens took credit for?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38005	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 17.00 hours, for the purpose of bringing in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, Milimir Vujadinovic. I gave you my word, please don't turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38006	Here, President, I know that you are a very tolerated person, and I know that you cannot control what any MP, at what point, will say, but I think you were obliged by article 107 to, perhaps, give a warning, in accordance with the article, I say 109, at the end, MP Bosko Obradovic. You've heard an insult and commentary that we're traitors, that we work for other people's interests, that we, I tried to record, robbers, thieves and hypocrites. That's who he worked with, and who he works with and how he sets who up with, I think it's clear in Serbia. In Serbia, at this moment, ministers and all people who perform important functions are placed on the basis of results that are easily measurable, such as the measurable results of the National Bank's work, and people know it best today. But don't forget who set up Bosko Obradovic and his associates. When he appointed a member, i.e. President of the Political Council in Dvori, a woman who comes from a far west country. Don't forget who brought Boška Obradovica into this parliament and helped him on that election night. Do not forget who Bosko Obradović is working with, that these are Ustasha descendants from the Croatian Parliament. Do not forget to co-operate with ATAKA from the Bulgarian parliament, which advocates the secession of the Republic of Serbia. What I most regret today is that today I feel the most sorry for those people who are protesting today. Remember that everyone Bosko Obradovic supported disappeared at one point. Bosko Obradovic supported the DSS, not in parliament today. Bosko Obradovic supported and co-operated with these from what is called, enough. They're not here today either. So I find it saddest for those people who are supported by Bosko Obradovic, trying to make a cheap political point at their torture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38007	Bosko Obradović, a replica of the exhibition of Aleksandr Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38008	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would like to inform my colleague, Aleksandr Martinovic, that the MP group of the Serbian Movement Dveri, if he did not understand correctly, has, again, submitted to the assembly procedure the proposal requires that a assembly survey committee be formed to examine any malversions related to loans indexed in Swiss francs. If there's nothing to hide, what's the question of us forming this congregation polling committee? So once, Mr. Martinovic, you wanted to form an electoral irregularity survey board, so you gave it up because it was known that you were involved in the election theft, so you wouldn't exactly find out what was going on and what was going on. On the other hand, what time was it? Well, at the time of the deputy governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Dijana Dragutinovic, in the term of office of Jorgenka Tabakovic. At the time of Synchronized Little and the Privatisation Agency. At the time, it was all happening, your finance minister and your vice governor. You want me to list more members of the yellow company and the yellow cartel that are in the SNS today? You want a Nebojsa Krstic? You want Elena Trivan? How much longer do you want me to list? And, of course, what is your great courage, Mr. Martinovic, to attack two ladies. Maria Janjusevic, who is not present because she is at a parliamentary conference in the Russian Duma in Moscow, along with other MPs, and Jasmin Vujic, one of the largest Serbian scientists from the diaspora, who, in fact, none of you are even knee-deep. It's very easy to attack women, and now we see who is who attacks women and who is the hero when, even, these women are not even present to answer you. Here, attack me, I'm here, and I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38009	Time. Thank you. I can testify who attacks women in Parliament. Alexander Martinovic, replica. Wait a minute, let me see why I don't have time on the screen. I'm just doing a rehearsal. Don't, if you... Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38010	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. First, I did not attack anyone, but I have in my hands a contract to provide media tracking services between "Nina media clipping" d.o.o. Novi Sad, Duke of Misic 9, represented by Marija Janjusevic, director and municipality of Indjija, represented by Mr. Goran Jesic, where in Article 5. – compensation for providing services, indexes, as you like to say, in euros. So, in foreign currency, which is contrary to the applicable regulations in the Republic of Serbia. Before the survey committee, which is related to contracts indexed in Swiss francs, I suggest something else, to form a survey committee, to determine how much money from Kolubara was pumped in 2004, 2005, 2006 for the purposes of Bosko Obradovic and his political party, at a time when the buffers in Kolubara, when machines in Kolubara worked 25, 26, 27 hours a day for Boška Obradovic. Furthermore, to form a polling committee and to determine that it is possible for a political organisation registered in the Republic of Serbia and which has nothing to do with the diaspora at the time of the yellow enterprise to be financed from the diaspora Ministry's budget from 2008-2012. So after that, we will deal with the problems Bosko Obradovic is talking about. So Bosko Obradovic is right about one thing when he says he was never in power. Being in power means, among other things, to be responsible for the exercise of that authority, but to have benefited from all DOS authorities since 2000, and how it had.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38011	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38012	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was a little touched when Bosko Obradovic spoke about the protection of women. ... This is where he attacked my wife in parliament. Our wives aren't women, they're just their wives and their female colleagues, they're women. Everything else doesn't matter, everything else can be fought, anything else can turn their hands, it can break into the cabinet of the President of the Assembly, it can be attacked by journalists, etc. Bosko Obradovic talked about the robbery. As for the Swiss franc loans, I'd like to, I've already said, that our courts make decisions in favour of our savings. We're not a court, but I'd like every court for every client of that bank to make that right and the Swiss francs to turn into dinars at a lower rate, etc. None of me would want it any more, because I know very well what credit is and how to repay it. Now, when it comes to robbery, then it forgets "Collabara", it is forgotten that these loans were raised right at the time when the privatisation was conducted by its coalition partners. He came with them on the list to this parliament, of course, with the help of the US ambassador, to make a difference. Of course he does not know that Marija Janjusevic was a U.S.ID surveyor and charged it in dollars. Of course, he doesn't know, maybe he does, but now he's probably informed about it. Of course, she does not know that at the time of the robbery, at the time of privatisation, Goran Jesic received money from an organization called "My Indjija" to participate in my destruction in the water management building. Of course he knows that. Well, when he has something to gain, he doesn't choose the means, God isn't afraid, people aren't ashamed. Speaking of God, we're talking about remote protection here, we need to protect Hilandar. It is generally known, according to priests, that the previous speaker, on the other right, was clumsing, according to our people, 5,000 euros from the shrine in Hilandar. I usually enter the church to leave something, all the other political representatives leave something in Hilandar, only he found and gave himself the right, to take 5,000 euros there in Hilandar, remember the euro, not the dinar, not to make, in an oath to the Troeric, not to make a political party from a family organisation. It also agrees with the clergy, chats 5,000 euros, swears on the Troeerica, and now everyone calls it St. Bostic left-handed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38013	Thank you. Replica, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38014	Thank you, Chairman, for your democratic spirit and for your tolerance. You see, I absolutely accept, here I immediately sign the formation of all the committees of inquiry to investigate everything that you've been saying about the Twors. All this stuff you said about the Dwarves is lies and slanders. I'm ready to form a assembly survey committee to examine it. And are you ready? Of course not, because it'll prove you're lying. Look, imagine how slandered it is for you to say to someone that he robbed the Hilandar monastery, and then someone received from the iguman of the Hilandar monastery just a few weeks ago at the highest level with an international delegation of Orthodox friends, as leader of that international delegation respected at the highest level of the Hilandar monastery. You're saying that this is how the Hilandar monastery receives those who robbed it? You guys, I really don't know what kind of monster lie you can come up with anymore? I understand that in destroying the Dvora everything is allowed, I understand that you will take advantage of the greatest lies and slanders, because you have nothing and you can't find anything for the Dwri. Because Dvori is reporting on their financial operations to this country and the Anti-Corruption Agency, and there has never been a dispute in Dvori's financial business, and you know it well. And the Dwarves are as clean as tears, and that's what hurts you. You can't find the Twors any crime, any affair, anything controversial. That's why the Davers are a mirror for you that you can't look at and see your moral debauchery, your corruption, your crime and your robbery. That's actually the point of the story. I agree, Mr. Martinovic, then let's all survey committees, let's do the survey committee as the SNS was founded. What is the role of Stanko Sutotic Canet, Milo Djukanovic, Miki Rakic, chief of cabinet Boris Tadic, to see who gave you the money, who gave you the mandates, who gave you the rooms in Prince Michael's Street in Belgrade? Are we going to examine these interesting picnics from the process of creating SNS?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38015	Thank you. Replica, Aleksandar Martinovic and Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38016	So, if there were no confusion, these are no slanders, this is an official contract that was filed at the Indji municipality office, it also has an accounting number 40-385, date of November 22, 2010. So it's no libel. Furthermore, as for financing the Serbian Dvora Movement, pumping money from the state budget, money laundering, which Bosko Obradovic has perfected to the limit. We talked about it more than once. So, the Serbian Movement Dvora transfers 4,200,000,00 dinars to the private store "Mintel", Borca, and then on 23 March 2017, transfers 3,800,000,00 dinars "Flux-com", Borca, Ivan Cvianovic, in this previous company owner Verica Cvianovic, mother and son of members, i.e. candidates for committees on the Dveri list, on 24 May 2017, transfers 3.550,000,00 dinar Branislav Simidzija, "MK-TEL" Belgrade. Well, then, transfer 200.372.00 dinars to Velux doo. Belgrade, and then below that goes the successive cash payment on the same day that it was paid to the firm. So, the Dvori are paying this company, the company is paying cash to Bosca Obradovic on the same day. It's the same for Fluxcom Borca, same for MK-TEL Belgrade, same for Velux. You're talking about some lawyers protecting banks, being in contact with the NBS, so you spent more than 20 million dinars for attorney services in the election campaign. You've had more lawyers than anyone accused in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38017	Thank you, MP, for your time. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38018	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107. So, Bosko Obradovic was a member, he did not go to Hilandar alone, but was part of an international visit and was probably amnested for it. But I've never heard of priests fighting because someone cheated on them and made them a party from a family organization. So they forgive. They forgive, I'm not a priest, I can understand him, but I can't forgive him. Taking 5,000 euros from Hilandara, the euro, disrespecting the national currency, not making a party, but building on a family organisation that will deal with families, etc., is a greater crime for me than he took that money. He denied by nothing that his MP was a U.S.ID surveyor. I brought here that his MP, Tito's youngest council member from the old project, which was intended for the development of livestock farming on the Old Mountain, took 63,000 euros to build a studio cooperative that is nowhere to be found, but 63,000 euros were paid in euro by the MP and his colleagues. When it comes to money, he doesn't mind. When it comes to the public sector, when it comes to the division of power, when it comes to hiring certain people, when it comes to robbing its own party, and this is the scheme of what Bosko Obradovic did, he pumped 28 million and 600,000 dinars into the company's office, which instead of campaigning, spent and put in his pocket, and when the money is not spent in campaigns, here's the governor knows, and the money goes back to the budget. It did not only damage its political party, it also damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget, and thus the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38019	Thank you, MP. Just remind me, Nedjo Jovanovic, the base you were looking for? By amendment, what about Miladin Ševarlic? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38020	I thank the esteemed president. I don't know which way to listen to absolute lies from the same MP. Therefore, the MP should be explained that there is a difference between invoices and payment orders. The invoices are financial documents that come out... Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. May I proceed with the president?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38021	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38022	Thank you. Then ask the MPs not to interfere with me using the time that follows my rules of procedure. So the absolute truth is that I took that kind of money, and I can document exactly how much I've been paid. It's the least paid job I've ever done. That's the first one. Secondly, immediately upon appointment as MEP, I sent an electronic version of the publications we published on the basis of this project to the addresses of all 17 members of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Third, it is the only project that has been done in the last 30 years in Serbia based on infield analysis, i.e. a survey conducted including around 10.8% of cooperatives, which is an extremely representative sample. Analysis of the survey should serve Serbia's co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38023	You've replicated. It was a replica after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38024	I ask that you do not allow, as president, to make false statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38025	I can't do that. I don't know who's gonna say what in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38026	No, no, but when you heard, this is already who knows which time. Don't apply any methods, so I don't name the creator... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38027	I know, MP, I believe. Whenever someone mentions us, we're all extremely sensitive when we're mentioned in person, I absolutely understand that, but I can't know in advance if anyone's made the true allegations or not. Then I would be the worst censor in Europe, not only in the country, then the reports of all these international monitorings that are going on on me that something incredible is happening here, that no MPs are allowed to say one word at all. It's up to you to replicate and deny what was said, and you had the right to a replica you didn't want to use. Thank you. If you think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, I'll put you to the vote, the least of the problems, and I ask you to be at that vote and vote in favour of your breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38028	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 103. It cannot be pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure which has already been indicated. So if I say Article 107, my colleague says Article 107, let me respect your tolerance, but you have to give me the opportunity he got, too. So, I didn't mention that Mr. Shevarlic did. I said that was done by Tito's youngest councilman, MP to my colleague Bosko Obradovic, and suddenly Mr. Ševarlic appeared. This isn't the first time he's tried to deny it. So there was a Star project, it was meant for livestock on the Old Mountain, and then strange living beings appeared who instead of growing on the Old Mountain started using means for consulting services. There were Poles and Slovenians, and there were the youngest of Titus's councilors. Here I am once, Mr. Martinovic knows, brought all the papers and all the payout dates, including trying to get the money, not only for the cooperative studies, but also for a consultant in the cooperative area who is Iranian and who should probably train us to write here. I've been trying to find thousands of copies of that cooperative study, which the youngest of Tito's committee reportedly wrote, and I haven't found any copies. The money has been paid several times and a total of 62,000 euros has been paid, and I will be able to re-session the papers and show them again to the MP of Tito's youngest council member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38029	Take it easy. I don't know who you were talking about. Who's Tito's youngest councilman? He didn't call any members. He stood up and spoke for two minutes, so I was confused whether it was a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He didn't call. The MPs don't even look at that provision anymore, but they all call for everything a thousand times a day, and they can't do that. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38030	So, Mr. Marijan Rističević is telling the truth that I received that amount. It is also false that people who are unprofessional are engaged. A colleague from Iran is a PhD in the University of Belgrade Faculty of Economics, doctorate in the cooperative field. I think he's a professor in Canada today. I can check and deliver that information. I did not select consultants from other countries, but conducted a commission in which she was the first professor to write the book "Coop Management" or management of cooperatives, back in 2001. It's not true that it's the only project that's been out of livestock, and I don't know what the World Bank loan was meant for. It was a public competition, and I remind Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to look at another strategy that is financed in slightly larger terms than that, which also refers to cooperatives and which has one publication that has been published, which represents a co-operation address book in Serbia in 80% or 70% of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38031	Thank you. The word is made by MP Bosko Obradović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38032	Dear Chairman, I would point out to Article 108, that it is the order of the session of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly, from the point of view that it would really be the turn to protect the respected professor, Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, his moral and any other integrity from these really, how to call them, the blatant and immoral accusations of a man who should have long been in prison. I know you know what I'm talking about. We know that Marijan Risticevic is an expert in commodity reserves, and we know that his companies have been involved in these affairs... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38033	The breach of the Rules of Procedure does not give you the right to speak now about Marijan Risticevic. You said what you had, I cannot protect the individual MPs against the charges of other MPs. For insults I can, but when they're explicitly pronounced. I can't determine what this is about, I'm trying. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) There is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: On several occasions he called me by name and last name. If you can let the chairman lead, and if you don't, let us all go out and you run the session yourself. That would be the same innovative solution. (Bosko Obradovic: Let Marijan Risticevic continue. ) I ask MP Bosko Obradovic to run in the next elections and to have so much to be elected by MPs for president. I'd be happy to do something else, not a problem. But it's a prerequisite for someone to win the election. Wait a minute, I've got woods on how to run a session, who's looking for a replica, who's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, who's what. On what basis did you seek, Mr. Ristichevich? To talk to Chevarlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 104, I have the right to reply because Chevarlic called me several times. It's been said that I'm not telling the truth. Like this, 57,351,97 euros were paid. This is the report where it writes – the user requested an increase in activity after the end of the contract on 31.10.2011. So, from the project, the gentleman received 57,351 euros and here he writes – a consultant, the re-mentioned gentleman, with an amount of 4.518 euros. Here, pick it up, and that was a little bit of it. Here are his signatures on the payment requests. And what's interesting is, in one of the demands of a large Cyrillic protector, he's speaking in Latin, this is his signature, this is all. Now explain to me, who is here a hypocrite, who does not speak the truth? This is the second time I've shown these papers, and this isn't just the case for Tito's youngest boardman. This is the whole parliamentary group that's now crossing over to Gilas, that's the right hand of Gilas who's trying, among other things, to criminalize me. Yeah, I ordered the stock reserve control. Yes, Mr. Arsic knows, we found less than 80,000 tons. The flaw you wish to attribute to me was in Krcedin, 22,000 and 500 tonnes. And, behold, he passed out, the silo belonged to Dobrivojo Sujum, the assistant of Mr Milosavljevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38035	The word is Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38036	Thank you. First of all, the replica to Boško Obradović's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38037	I gave it to Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38038	Excuse me, please. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38039	I can't allow it. He can't go to the same parliamentary group, he writes in his Rules of Procedure. This would be an abuse and then the SNS would replicate each other in the entire session. It would never end. Don't talk at the same time. I'm trying to help you. You cannot replicate an MP from your parliamentary group. It's good in the Rules of Procedure. They're the same parliamentary group. I'm taking a five-minute break, because this doesn't lead to anything anymore. This has become a general fight. It's over with the replicas. We've explained everything. It's all clear to everyone, and it's all unclear to everyone. Let me remind you, we are making amendments to the Bill on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in the distance contract. I think we've all forgotten that, especially the viewers. The word will be given only after the break by Nedjo Jovanovic, because he wants to speak according to the amendment. At least I hope so. [[after breaks]] Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38041	I thank you, President. The esteemed governor, the SPS parliamentary group, is categorically in the view that this amendment should not be accepted because it is absolutely unfounded. It is unfounded because it is based on cheap political marketing, on the one hand, and on the other hand on the intricacies or non-recognition of positive regulations. Let's start from the beginning. I'll use the time of the parliamentary group. First and foremost, the exchange clause is a legal category and it is as a legal institute contained in the provisions of the Law on Liabilities. If someone wants to delete foreign exchange clauses by amending and supplementing the Bond Relations Act, then they will come up with the essence of the bond law. The exchange clause as an institute exists since modern legislation, when the bond law has been defined and systematised through the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations in a modern way since 1982 or 1984. Therefore, the currency clause must exist and it is inevitable. If we are going to question it with cheap political points, then it is a direct violation of the legal order and of the justice of the Republic of Serbia. I only have one thing to point out, and it's very important for the citizens of Serbia. There's no corruption of the judges from the banks. That's not true. Practice, and this case-law, suggests in an unambiguous way that the courts have ruled against banks in the past few months, and the judgments where the natural persons were prosecutors, when they got up with lawsuits against banks for obtaining without grounds, so they asked for something to be returned to them, allegedly, and the banks allegedly unfoundedly took away or unfoundedly enriched, for some amount of expenses, commissions, based on credit lines, credit agreements, etc., etc. I believe you must know that. However, the case law seeks to be uniform. Only the courts can solve this problem. The problem of Swiss francs and loans that have been raised, or negotiated in Swiss francs, is an extremely complex and complex problem. A number of consultations, numerous seminars, lawyers, judges, lawyers, have indicated that only through judicial practice can we come to a solution. And that solution is still nowhere to be seen. We can systemize it, we can hardly, because we're going to get into some other problem, and this problem can be multipled with severe consequences. So, let's cut cheap political points and cheap political marketing. This is a problem that will be solved, of course, with the help of the NBS, but is the main burden of solving this problem in the judiciary and in the courts. The truth is, it's also an absolute lie that the judges have ruled in this direction against the banks. That's not true either. In the first degree, the establishment of the case-law was by making two first-degree courts in Belgrade judgments recognising or adopting a claim against natural persons on the basis of compensation for damages, where, in some ways, the damage is explained through the acquisition without grounds or other form of damage, again related to the Swiss francs. You've been sued for your judgments, and you've been waiting for decisions to be made in appeals. Therefore, citizens should know that those who point to such things are such false or false data, is absolutely someone who is not well-intentioned and who does not wish well for the state of Serbia, and especially the justice of the Republic of Serbia. I had to say this because it's a broader context, given that even the reasoning of the amendment has no basis in the law, but has a basis in a political story, a political pamphlet. That's why I think the amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38042	The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38043	Dear citizens of Serbia, I am extremely pleased that you have all witnessed the torment of the current governor of NBS, Jorganka Tabakovic, on all ten questions I have asked her. She knows perfectly well that everything I've talked about is absolutely true, so she can't answer any of my findings, let alone what my question is. I am pleased that the citizens of Serbia had the opportunity to make sure that Jorgenka Tabakovic has no answer to the question, why Serbia is the only country out of 14 countries where the issued loans have been indexed in Swiss fans in which the problem has not been solved and these loans have been declared illegal, not allowed, not fair and looting. For all of this, at this time, there is a protest by the Association of Bankers of Serbia in several places in Belgrade and ends with a hunger strike of more than 39,000 families who have a credit problem indexed in the Swiss francs, and we will see how many families will now have a health problem of these 39,000 because they will strike hunger because people are forced to fight against courts and NBS that will not, which will not solve their problem, as has been resolved in the other 13 countries that have had these loans. Of course, when it comes to any financial problems or transactions of the Serbian Dveri Movement, if there is something controversial, we have learned from the best, from the Serbian Progressive Party, from those who best know how to launder money and how 40,000 dinars in cash, which you took in another way, you give to one of your members to pay for your pre-election campaign and so seven thousand of them times 40,000 dinars and two million euros you wash from the black funds that you robbed this people and the state. So, if anyone knows how to launder money and get out of the state budget into personal party, godfather and brother-in-law pockets, it's SNS and Alexander Vukic. We learned from the best in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38044	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38045	You learned from Milovan Brkic and everything you're saying you read in Tabloid, so the citizens of Serbia know. All of your big demagogue stories about Jorgenka Tabaković, about Vukic, about SNS, etc., you read this with Milovan Brkić, the man who makes every day the worst possible insults at the expense of Alexander Vukic, his family and all of us who belong to the SNS. As for the hunger strike, since I see you care a lot about the citizens of Serbia who are announcing a hunger strike, I wonder if you will join the strike along with the members of your parliamentary group? Somehow it wouldn't be knightish and it wouldn't be Christian, it wouldn't be human if people starved, and you waited 14 hours and a break in the work of the congregation to get down to a congregation restaurant and have lunch. So if 39,000 families in Serbia, as you say, strike hunger, I ask you to solidarity with them and show that you are truly on their side. I can also give you one suggestion that you can help these citizens directly. All those millions of euros you got, a little of the DSS, share a little of the DS with those citizens who are now in financial trouble. I'm sure it'll be easier for them. Only in 2004, here, and I end up, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Kolubara paid off to the Serbian Dvora Movement, then some association of citizens, the Serbian Parliament of Dveri, 4.2 million dinars when Kolubare Director was Vladan Jovicic, and Kolubara recorded record losses. In 2004 alone, she recorded a loss of several billion dinars. So, a little bit of that money you got from the yellow, from the DSS, from all those DOS guys a little bit share with those citizens. Don't take it all for yourself, I'm sure it'll be the most effective support for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38046	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38047	Thank you, Chairman. As you can see, I am sitting in the MPs' benches where the People's MPs from the Dvora are sitting because the other People's MPs from Dvora are right in protest CHF Serbia and provide full support for their justified demands to finally stop the bank robbery of all those who have loans indexed in Swiss francs. I will personally join as soon as this protest is declared and give them full support, as I have always done and as I will do in the future. As for these other sweet statements of yours, here, I will help you understand the relationship of the Hilandar monastery towards the Serbian Dvora Movement and quote an opinion. If you've ever been to the Hilandar monastery, and I don't remember Alexander Vukic being, and I don't know if Vojislav Seselj was, but it's a different topic now, but if you were there, then you must have met the most important priest of the Hilandar monastery, the recent retired old man Kiril, who said this when the Dvori got into politics, what I want to do with the Two-mans and what he thinks about the Two-mans. He says: “It is a matter of true national and spiritual responsibility to people. They will implement Serbia's spiritual and material reconstruction programme consistently and eventually. I believe that these young people, who have already proven themselves on the defender of religion and nation, are the real future of Serbia." Father Kirilo, Hilandarac, told anyone who has ever been to Hilandar the greatest priest of this monastery in the last few decades, about the Serbian Movement of the Dvera, so let the citizens of Serbia assess whether to trust Marijana Risticevic, who is here in the National Assembly so that he would not be in jail and who instead wore a nano, has assigned a toenail to his wife, whom he prescribed to be the director of his thieving companies or Alexander Martinovic, who has applied six times the same work under another name and thus made himself a great scientist and expert. So, on the one hand, Father Kirilo Hilandarski, on the other hand Marijan Risticevic and Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38048	Thank you, MP. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38049	This information about Milovan Brkic is not worth a man to comment on. There's a much more serious question here, that little we start talking about serious issues, and let alone who was in Hiladnar and who wasn't in Hilandar. Here is a key question – why did Serbian citizens ever come to the situation of borrowing from banks, regardless of which, domestic or foreign, to buy an apartment, to buy a white technique, or to pay for schooling to their children? Certainly not because of Alexander Vukic, and certainly not because of Jorgenka Tabakovic, but because of those who led Serbia from 2000 to 2012, when these loans were taken. So the question here is, who brought citizens to their irresponsible economic and fiscal policy to meet their basic life needs by taking loans from banks? Look, these are direct-to-consumption loans. It's not the loans that go for production, it's the spending. So, who put the citizens in a position so they could even survive taking those loans? Mr. Obradic, the same ones who funded you. You're saying I'm not telling the truth? Here, these are official data from the Ministry of Finance in the period from 2008 to 2011. Mrs Tabakovic says donations to NGOs from the Republika Srpska budget: The Ministry of Diaspora Serbian Parliament Dvori - 300 thousand dinars, the Ministry of Religion - 400,000 dinars, the Ministry of Diaspora - 300 thousand dinars. It's only a million dinars in a year. So, twice from the Ministry of Diaspora and once from the Ministry of Faith.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38050	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38051	I'm advocating article 101, and I urge you, Madam President, to take a break, which gives you the opportunity of this member. This really takes the fall when we're discussing people who are in real trouble. We've heard here that I'm implementing the fact that it's 30,000 family members. Gentlemen, don't think of these people as a potential electoral body who will vote for you. On the other hand, do not look at these people so that you can put their problem somewhere near the end, so that you do not look back on these problems. I think it would be very useful to take a break of one minute, two, and stop the abuses here in this House, because those people who are willing to strike hunger really have their real problems. It would be good to have representatives of the National Bank and the newly elected minister as an expert as soon as possible to see if there is a possibility that part of those people who are in real problems can be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38052	Thank you, but I have to give the replicas first to the MPs, so we'll think about a break that's getting closer anyway. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38053	We didn't intend to interfere in this debate, especially not to abuse the fact that people are strikein' today because of these loans taken in Swiss francs. We told Bosca Obradovic a long time ago everything that was to be known. We're the ones who first said that thanks to Scott, he entered the National Assembly. It is true that Seselj first presented information on how much the funds, which were intended for the campaign, Bosko Obradović spent, or washed, by paying them, imagine, electricians, etc. We don't really know what Bosca Obradovic should have said to Dr Vojislav Seselj in this debate with colleagues from the ruling majority. Whether he was in Hilandar or not in Hilandar, Vojislav Seselj is less important, and it is much more important that when he is in Hilandar, Vojislav Seselj will certainly not rob Hilandar. They will not steal 5,000 euros there, they will not falsely swear that they will never make a party, but will, of course, go as any directional believer and with a contribution and, if necessary, a promise that will surely be fulfilled. So, Bosko Obradovic should not be boasted about the fact that he was in Hilandar, because he was there and stole 5,000 euros. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38054	Kola Obradovic, Marijan Risticevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38055	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please cameraman, Bosko Obradovic is known for his courage especially when applying mental and physical violence against women. So he does not predicate their physical and psychological health hazards. This is a confirmation from the Department of Justice on 30.5.2018, that my wife is not on any scale and has no leg. He can see for himself. I won't talk about his wives, I said I'd respect his family. However, he said many more lies. He said, here's the belief that I don't owe anything to the state, here that I've never had any firms, here that I've never had any business relationship with a stock reserve. You fellow Arsic remember that 80,000-ton control, when we caught his coalition partners, and perhaps Gilas himself under 80,000 tons. From there came the rematch and the charge, nothing founded, and here a few confirmations did not owe me anything, that I never called, I never got in there, but apparently that Bosca Obradovic was not enough. Now, I didn't invent Hilandar. It's Milos Stojkovic, a man of faith, a religious official. He argues, aside from Glisic, his former partner, but a theologian when he claims that someone for a family organisation took 5,000 euros, swore on Troyrovic and instead of a family organisation made a party, I want to believe that the religious analyst is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38056	Right on line, Governor, Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38057	People who protest about their problem in Switzerland don't mention the NBS because they know what she did. I don't understand Mr. Obradovic's fascination with the governor, or with me, such a jagged calling, calling, addressing. I'm a serious lady at 58. Please, behave yourself, bring your behavior to the subject, the place where we are, and above all, the real problems of people with problems in Swiss francs. In August 2012, I became governor. In May 2013, knowing the problems faced by these people, the NBS made two recommendations to banks one of which referred to undefined elements of unilateral interest increases, and the other in ways to facilitate the payment of loans in Swiss francs. Some similar, not well-intentioned, persuaded people not to talk to the banks about it. On January 15, 2015, when the value of the Swiss franc jumped rapidly, it led to an NBS reaction that on 24 February brought four models that require banks to negotiate with citizens depending on each individual case, enabling them to make it easier for them to obtain credit. Many who took seriously the state’s intention, but also the banks, entered these talks and received extenuating circumstances. At the same time, the 2013 recommendation became mandatory, on the unilateral increase in interest on which banks, I repeat, returned to the users of the loan, and based on the NBS decision 5.13 billion dinars based on the NBS decision. Now you tell me who's doing politics, promotion here, and who's taking concrete action? When they are also similar to well-intentioned, setting up associations for protection, and themselves previously in strange ways, by solving their own loans, but not for their members of the association, they continue to urge people to resolve this problem differently, once again the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, the Ministry of Finance, gathered all members, including those of the public at the table, and we have brought joint recommendations where all credit users will be treated according to their own problems. Banks have been given a warrant, a request and a recommendation to appreciate the status and ability of each family to repay those loans. Those who are false that this problem is solved everywhere, I don't know if they deserve any respect from anyone. Every citizen can enter the website of every central bank, every citizen association, from Slovenia, Poland and others, and see if and how these problems have been solved, but the colleague explained very well both Mr. Arsic and Martinovic and what legal uncertainty has introduced the country where the state or uninvited NBS interferes in mutual contractual relations between banks and credit users. You can be rougher than you are, but you can't undo the truth and the facts about what the state of Serbia, its government, the Ministry of Finance and the NBS have done. I will no longer answer this question, and if you have anything special to ask me, call me in the hallway, maybe I'll know to answer your question. I'm not afraid of you coming near me, though I know you're violent. (Radoslav Milojic): What does this look like? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38058	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38059	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising Article 107 and I'm advertising Article 108. Is it possible that you stayed silent on this if the governor told the MP that he was a bully and everything else? What does this look like? This isn't her SNS. This is the National Assembly and here are the MPs elected by the citizens of Serbia. She didn't tell anyone from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, but you're obliged to react to something like that. It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38060	Mr. Milojicic, we'll check it out, but you just ran into the O.R., you immediately asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You were gone. (Radoslav Milojic): What do you care when I enter the O.R.?- I'm sorry. Who are you to determine when I'm coming?- I'm sorry. Don't yell at me, Mr. Milojich, please. (Radoslav Milojic: To call someone rude and violent?- I'm sorry. That's not what Mrs. Tabakovic said. We'll check it out. I didn't hear. (Radoslav Milojic: You didn't hear?- I'm sorry. I've given you a very good answer. One more question - you're a colleague of Obradovic's lawyer, right? (Radoslav Milojic: What do you care?- I'm sorry. I don't care at all, but finally show that you're in a coalition, nothing more. According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38061	Thank you. Article 106, Article 108. I can't believe you let a previous speaker scream from his place to a lady, Mrs. Tabakovic. I want to tell him, as he has just objected that this is not an SNS, no, this is not an alliance for Serbia, to which it belongs. When it comes to bullies, what is unclear about Mrs Tabakovic's saying that we know the violent nature of Bosko Obradovica? What's unclear about that? Well, the whole of Serbia knows he's pissed off at women in RIK. The whole of Serbia knows that it has attacked women journalists outside the Pink building in its own time. What's unclear about that? On the other hand, I believe that the previous speaker has identified himself personally in a certain bully. Well, the whole of Serbia knows that he is with his "tigers", as they were called in the Smederjevska Palanca, that he attacked a 63-year-old man. The whole of Serbia knows that. Please, I think you should have reacted and a minimum warning to give him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38062	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38063	Article 116 was injured, because just now, Jorgenka Tabakovic, governor of the National Bank, spoke on what basis for nearly five minutes. So, we're in the discussion in particular, we're talking about amendments. The same rights and obligations, when it comes to amendments, have a proposing representative, as the MPs have. I understand the desire and the need to know what to say, but the same desire and need are often given to MPs, but they can't speak for more than two minutes. So if she's replicated, it's two minutes. If it's on the amendment, it's two minutes. And to add two plus two and another half, that's not possible. And she's been telling us all day Thursday that she remembers as a folk MP, as she knows the Rules of Procedure, so she's been calling for her parliamentary rights, business rights, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38064	My colleague Radeta, it's my fault, not Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38065	Well, I point to your mistake, of course, but I have to explain how the mistake was made. Mr. Arsic, please, yes, Mrs. Jorgenka said on Friday that in love and war everything is allowed, but this is neither love nor war. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38066	Mrs. Governor, on a number of grounds, was entitled to a replica. (Miss Radeta: How long has this been coming together? I could choose whether any exposure where the governor would be called to give two minutes, and that would take maybe 20 minutes. Here, I accept it's my fault. From now on, I will take care of it, and we will measure the effectiveness of that decision. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Thank you very much. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Damjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38068	Thank you. The time has come for all possible replicas, injuries to the Rules of Procedure, etc. As far as the laws that come to our Parliament are concerned, it can be said in plastic terms, theoretically, the law sounds nice, it's a little bit different in practice. For just a few minutes from our home there is a Belgrade Business School and the biggest problem of that school is the director of the Higher School of Professional Studies. In addition to dozens of educational, financial, budgetary and many other inspections, even the final decisions of the Anti-Corruption Agency, proven malfeasances, it is achieved that the laws we make in this House are not applied in practice. The logical question arises – why do we adopt these laws if the executive body selectively determines when they will apply it and to whom? As early as December 2017, as can be seen in this case, the Anti-Corruption Agency says – the solution was found to be v.d. Director of the Agency, under the number of teams and teams, stated the measure of public publication of the recommendation to resolve from the public office of the school director, because you acted contrary to the provisions...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38069	A colleague, Damjanovic, is not the law on the education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38070	Who said it was the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38071	I know, but you have to explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38072	I'm talking about financial malfeasances and I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38073	That when it's on the agenda, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38074	Mr. Arsic, I'm explaining...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38075	You don't explain anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38076	I explain that the laws that are passed, as well as the laws that are now to be passed, raises the question whether they will be applicable in practice and give a concrete example of how certain laws, which exist, are absolutely not applied when some people are protected as white bears. The public should be familiar...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38077	My colleague Damjanović, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38078	Mr. Arsic, unlike the predecessors who spoke of Hilandar, at least I'm saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38079	They spoke in replicas and tried to at least talk a little bit about the financial market. You didn't say anything about the financial market.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38080	I'm just talking about the abuse of certain functions in state institutions. I don't see any reason for you to interrupt me. I will explain through this example how the distance contract, for example, which was concluded by the Belgrade Business School with Simpa, has never been returned, and it is about millions of amounts and values, or for example. The same school, which made a donation to Dragica Nikolic worth 400,000 dinars in the Serbian budget system in July 2014. Are those contracts? They did. Did they give it to you? They did. What don't you understand here? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38081	I'll explain now, since you obviously haven't read the law. (Miljan Damjanovic: Of course I am. I guess you didn't. You're talking about the Bond Relations Act. This is about a law that regulates the area of financial services that can only be provided by persons who are registered for it. No person you mentioned was registered within the meaning of the Financial Services Act. (Miljan Damjanovic: Will you let me speak or not?) ) You can only speak within the agenda and within your amendment. I do not determine what you will say, but determines the Rules of Procedure. I am obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure. (Miljan Damjanovic: I, unlike those who read all the time and listen to the same texts, tried to explain how in practice they do not apply... I don't see why you would in this law... A colleague of Damjanovic's, it was about replicas. You know, when it's a replica, it's different. (Miljan Damjanovic: Replica was created when counterpart Bosko Obradovic, who did not speak according to the law he spoke of, came to discuss where someone's money went missing. I don't see why you're interrupting me now, and alarmingly, how one budget organization uses... I thank my colleague Damjanović. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my first amendment, I was talking about how much the government cares about providing financial services to Serbian citizens. Today when you go to any bank, when you sign any contract relating to a financial transaction, firstly, if you're even able to notice something like that, the first thing that falls into your eyes is to see some sentences, words written in a tiny font. Some of the most important things and the most unfavourable things that are in that contract, which relate to the client, are written in a tiny font, some are even in some contracts on the margins, and some things are in footnote. This is not only the case with banking services, but also with any other things where a citizen needs to sign some kind of financial transaction contract. So, we see that, now that we're doing these, let's say, classic transactions, there's a million loops, a million traps, a million ways to deceive citizens, to deceive clients, and what happens only then when this law comes into effect, when the bargaining begins, or the distance bargaining, as provided for by this law. One of our fellow MPs, the ruling majority MP, Meho Omerovic seems to have literally understood the bill, so he tried a distance from the toilet to pay for the things he took in the fridge. However, it is obvious that since the law has not yet been passed, it has not been brought into the EU and we know what has happened, and that is what our people call theft.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38083	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ristic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38084	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honourable Members of Parliament, I will continue my presentation on the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial roles in the distance settlement. Unfortunately, the conclusion is that this is another EU law that has only been translated. On this occasion we must commend the governor for hiring excellent translators, so the law is translated so that it is understandable to the laymen as well. There are certainly better translators than those hired by the government, and perhaps they are just more resourceful because they have seen almost all the points exactly the same as already in the existing law. If so, then they are praised for being resourceful because it is very important in diplomatic circles, here in the Assembly, and also in the free shop when it is necessary to react quickly, to come up with a replica to the opponent. The resourcefulness in itself is not bad and can help to get away with life, even in politics. The problem arises when it is used when it is not needed, so diplomatic scandal is caused and due to a little cosmetics. You know what they say-- less is more. And this time there's a giant that's gonna be hard to cover up. We, Serbian radicals, strongly oppose the introduction of EU law, and in this way, under a parallel of transparency, under a parallel of serious studies and hard and self-burning work. Another translator's honor. Whatever you did, you didn't embarrass yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38085	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38086	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through this amendment and about the draft financial laws we are talking about on behalf of Serbian citizens, the SRS is asking you for an answer – is it true that these foreign banks holding a monopoly in Serbia pay more than 450 different fees for bank transactions, both for private and natural persons, legal, pardon? Have you checked if these fees are legal? I don't think so, according to our information. And why is there no control and everything to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Is it true that in Serbia, the fee for electronic payment is six times higher than in the EU, and we prescribe and agree laws with the EU? Why did you allow payment services on the route of the trader-user to only now solve? Why did it have to wait six full years when you could handle it in two days when you were set up? Here the citizens were damaged because for six years they paid a bigger fee, because the traders counted that difference at the price of the product. That's how banks made six years at the expense of consumers. Until you free the citizens of Serbia from the monopoly of foreign banks and create a domestic state-owned development bank, which will develop both businesses and agriculture and that will work for the interests of Serbian citizens, then it will be easier for you to defend the interests of the domestic bank and citizens of Serbia, of course, and not to attribute to you to protect foreign banks and their capital. In the end, what MP Omerovic did in an act of theft during the great post of Ramadan is primarily a great sin and an even greater humiliation for this home and for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38087	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38088	Thank you. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. Article 1 of this proposal defines the subject matter of the law. We have proposed by amendment that the text be adopted, the way the amendments are opened and the text adopted - the conditions and the way in which they are realized. We believe that the promoter has accepted this amendment would be a better precise way to define the concept, i.e. It will be clearer that it is the terms and conditions of realisation and the protection of the rights of users of financial services when contracting financial services using means of communication in the distance. Electronic business has made it possible to increase the provision of remote financial services has its advantages and can contribute to the savings of citizens and to the savings of time and financial resources. The general conclusion is that citizens and business entities are more open to the use of modern payment methods and can accordingly be expected to benefit more frequently from new contracts in the future. These are the things that he carries with him today, and we from the SRS, in that sense, and we observe this law. We have submitted this amendment to make the text as precise as possible. We believe that the proposer should have accepted our amendment, because it would have really won the quality of the law, and the quality of the law is important because of the citizens and the economy of the Republic of Serbia. This should be a priority to representatives of Serbia's government. I expect by adopting a law on the protection of customers of financial services in a distance settlement that Meho Omerovic will pay at a distance from a nicer, more decent place to be from a park, garden, instead of toilets.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38089	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Daniela Stojadinović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Stojadinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38090	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Governor of Associates, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. The amendment proposes the addition of Article 1(2) in order to make this provision more complete and subject-matter of the law clearer and more precise by means of a more precise legislative formulation, allowing for easier control of the implementation of the law. That was our intention, and since it wasn't accepted, I'd add something else about this topic. It is clear that one of the priorities of the government's work is to improve the use of information communication technologies, and in the first place in the economy and it is clear that there is an increase in the use of payment cards in Serbia year by year and this positive trend is expected in the coming period. The Chamber of Commerce agrees, and this also shows seven million payment cards with a tendency to increase this number. The goal is to increase the percentage of security payments, and the rapid development of information technologies and telecommunications directly introduces newspapers in the area of payment cards. We have heard from colleagues from other parliamentary groups that there is a simple difference in the use of payment cards between larger places, cities, Belgrade and that their use in smaller places is slightly smaller, which is likely to be changed in some future period. For the first time, this law provides comprehensive protection of financial services and will cover the rights of users of financial services. The SPS parliamentary group therefore fully agrees with this and will vote on these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38091	Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have received the resignation of MP Zeljko Sušec as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the case under Article 88(2) has taken place. The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88, 88, 3 and 4 of that same law determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Zeljko Sušec on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MPplatimir Stevic. Here's a colleague of Steve's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38092	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in a distance contract, I submit the following amendment - in Article 1. The draft law, after Article 1, adds a new position 2, which reads - the user is considered to be a natural person who, on the basis of a distance contract, has benefited or used financial services or has been addressed to the service provider for the conclusion of that contract and the use of those services, for purposes not intended for its commercial or other commercial activity, an entrepreneur within the meaning of the law governing companies and farmers who are a farmer or a member of a agricultural land within the meaning of a law governing agriculture and rural development. As an explanation, the amendment proposes the addition of the provisions of Article 1. The draft law by defining this article with the notion of customers of financial services in remote contracts. The proposed amendment adds a new position 2 to Article 1 which defines the concept of remote-negotiated financial service users closer. I believe that it is necessary in Article 1 to define the subject matter of the law, at the same time to define who the financial services users are agreed on remotely using electronic means of communication. The law provides that users of these services can be natural persons, so that goods or services they have agreed on via the Internet, telephones, e-mails are exclusively for private purposes, not for reselling or performing certain activities, and that they may also be entrepreneurs, in the event that the contracted servant or slave is not intended to perform entrepreneurial activity. Also, the possibility is now being introduced that farmers who are holders or members of a registered agricultural household can negotiate financial services at a distance. The main objectives of lawmaking are to improve the rights of users of financial services and to further protect those users, as well as to specify certain practical issues in remote bargaining, as well as to bring domestic legislation into line with EU law. The law first and foremost regulates the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, while ensuring a higher level of protection of the rights of those users. The existing legal framework in the area of the protection of financial services users in the Republic of Serbia is complemented by the introduction of detailed provisions aimed at establishing uniform principles and principles for all financial services that can be provided remotely, for different financial services, which are currently regulated through several specific laws, such as credit and other banking services, insurance services, voluntary pension funds, payment services, electronic money, financial contracts and investment services. In this way, rules are harmonised when negotiating distances, thus providing additional legal certainty to the financial services user, and the procedure for the negotiation of different types of financial services for users is simplified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38093	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Stojkovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38094	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The esteemed NBS Governor, Mrs Tabakovic, with associates, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, in EU countries over 70% of trade is done electronically. The application of e-signature and e-business creates conditions for all trade transactions to be done faster, more efficient and more economically. Business partners communicate via the Internet, exchange e-provides, e-procurements, businesses and mobile phones. This kind of business is well documented, protected from counterfeiting and fraud and is not based on paper documents, but is solely based on an electronic document, which can be printed in certain situations. In Serbia, in the area of the Contracting Law, the process of harmonisation really goes the way forward, and I really congratulate you, Mrs Tabakovic, on the progress you have made in this area. A number of laws and other sublegal rules have already been adopted that follow EU requirements and standards. However, since this matter has not been regulated so far, it is, in fact, the area which is like some kind of moving target, we, as MPs and as NBS and all resolution ministries really in the process of harmonisation with EU regulations, must constantly meet these standards and these levels. We want this set of laws that you've passed as NBS, but also as the Ministry of Economy, we want to move forward with time. We want to adopt all those standards and we want to harmonize and bring our legislation into line with EU rules. On the other hand, we are doing this because of the citizens of Serbia living in this country, because of the economy, because of the users of financial services, as well as numerous domestic companies. After the changes to a large number of regulations, first of all, we are about to change the rules and, when it comes to customs regulations, tax, republican administrative taxes, information security and electronic archives, means, in the process of European integration in 35 chapters ahead, there are a lot of work that we need to adopt, in order for citizens to feel all the benefits of European integration that we as a state advocate. The practice in the previous period was that absolutely the former regime did not consult either domestic economy or citizens, they did not really move from a dead end when it comes to electronic business in Serbia. When you ask domestic companies, they say as their key problems, that really key problems lie within the legislative framework, which is about Internet payments. Domestic companies identified the following problems – the inability to use e-money-based business models, the mass non-recognition of e-contracts as the basis for payment in domestic banks, the inability to use foreign e-money services, and other services such as the Crown Platform for paying payments from resistors, and the inability of the state to control the incomes of persons achieved through Pei Palace or other providers of similar services. As a member of the Committee on European Integration, it is really important to harmonise the rules contained in Chapter 28. It's a word to protect the consumer. This chapter bears the name Consumer Protection and Health Protection. It is about those areas and regulations that the European Commission itself defines as targeted harmonisation, i.e. harmonisation whose degree depends on case to case, and at any moment we must take care of the benefits of the consumers doing business in our country, without the application of automatic and unconditional harmonisation. However, in remote contracts, especially when buying online, full harmonisation of regulations is required to improve and build a single market. This really is one complicated job and you have to take care of all the details. Serbia is dealing with these problems with this very law. EU law is not fully built and an integrated system, but a legal system that is under construction. EU law, when it comes to these areas, has over 20,000 regulations and indeed a large number of regulations relating to secondary EU legislation. Also, law and law are also the source of justice and numerous judicial decisions, above all I mean the Court of Justice, but also the first-degree court. Despite the great potential for economic development, increasing employment and competitiveness, as well as facilitating daily life, e-commerce in Serbia is indeed in the process. Only by coming to power in the Republic of Serbia is the digitalisation process, which is one of the main priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our prime minister, Mrs Brnabic, but also our President Aleksandr Vukic, was then highly positioned on the Digitalisation agenda, but also our reform of the electronic administration. Despite the great potential for economics, we cannot really dispute the shifts already made in the previous period, and only now somehow, we have a feeling as MPs, as citizens living and operating in this country, we can say that these shifts are really happening, and that we can talk about concrete results today. We have to fight a number of stereotypes that are valid in this area, but we also need to strengthen trust among financial services users. It is not enough that we are simply adopting regulations, we do today have a large number of regulations that we are discussing, but as MPs, we must also really look after their implementation, their application in practice, both for the citizens themselves and for the competent authorities responsible for applying this set of rules. We must also work on the education of staff, because indeed, in the previous period, we have inherited predominant bureaucracy and we must work really to train professional staff on permanent education of employees in state services, but also on education of traders, consumers themselves, in order to actually raise awareness of the importance and benefits of electronic trade. When we talk about benefits, the benefits of adopting this law are indeed multiple. Benefits from the adoption of this law are seen as providing additional legal certainty to the beneficiary of financial services, where the process of contracting different types of financial services is simplified, where the rights of beneficiaries of financial services themselves are strengthened. Benefits also refer to strengthening consumer confidence in the application of modern bargaining techniques, such as electronic trade or so on. Electronic mobile banking. By doing so, the application of this law will increase the overall demand for financial services, it will be some way of basic behaviour in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to financial services users. Also, there will be a reduction in the operating costs of financial institutions, because distance bargaining allows customers of financial services to access the widest range of financial services that exist on the domestic financial market, regardless of the place of residence. So, regardless of the place of residence or the place of residence where the user is located. Also, there will be an increase in the freedom of choice of users, we will be able to mean, both as citizens and as an economy to choose through whom we will perform certain financial services, reducing costs and spending of time using means of communication remotely, above all I mean means means means of communication at a distance when it comes to using the Internet. What is for Mrs Tabakovic, simply a challenge for one of ours in the next period, we must really do more and more to protect the users of financial services, but also the provider of financial services. The statistical data that you provided us in the material to prepare this law really speaks of a great trend in the constant increase in the use of payment instruments, such as payment cards on which certain electronic money is stored. We do have in these four quarters of 2017, an increase when it comes to internet payments and mobile payments, but also to the issue of payment cards, when it comes to payments in the Republic of Serbia, as well as payments made abroad. At the very end, indeed the last sentence, the SNS and our coalition partners will indeed support the adoption of this good legal solution, as well as all the legal solutions offered to us in the National Assembly of the NBS, as well as the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38095	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38096	Thank you. I have proposed an amendment, under this law, to put an accent on underdeveloped areas, to the area from which I come, because only in such a way we can hear, and therefore react to the problems of our fellow citizens living in southeastern Serbia, in mountainous areas, people who use the Internet very little. But this law gives us the possibility, and we are all working together to include as many of our fellow farmers as possible, and in this way can use these services, with it being very, as it is said, safe, because we have a lot of things done in the previous period where a large number of our agricultural producers have used certain loans, and now after these loans that were very unfavourable, but needed, now these agricultural producers have problems with their own goods, because they are being approached by the executors. Dear Governor, I think that with this amendment that I am putting into underdeveloped areas, I want to contribute to the development of these areas and to work together in areas such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Književec, Sokobanja and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia. We can, with our engagement and these amendments that I propose, make a contribution that our people who live there have the opportunity to use services and that tomorrow they can save their resources that can improve their lives. Otherwise, for all of us agricultural producers and in southeastern Serbia, and everywhere there is one rule "long is an ugly friend". So a large number of our agricultural producers don't want to take credit, but when they do, it's good to know what the measures are, interest. For this reason, I call on all fellow Members to vote in favour of my amendment, to support underdeveloped areas and to develop these areas. With the development of these areas, the development of agriculture and villages, we are also developing our country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38097	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Mucužic Puzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38098	Thank you. Dear Governor, I have submitted this amendment to point out the importance of digitisation and electronic business for Serbia's development and keeping pace with the developed world. Technological development and the growing importance of electronic business in all areas of business are a challenge for the Serbian government, so the government has as one of three pillars of its development and development set up digitisation and improvement of the use of information technologies both in the economy and in the state administration. The main obstacle on the way to digitisation in the present period was the inadequate legal framework, i.e. the legislative framework in this area. The law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts will, together with recently passed laws on electronic administration, and on the electronic document, resolve the obstacle and create an adequate legislative framework for further progress in the digital economy. Digitalisation is not a matter of choice, it is an imperative for Serbia's development. If the digital administration lived throughout Serbia, the state would save 245 million dinars or six million hours that Serbian citizens could spend much smarter than waiting in line. Since financial services have also become the subject of widely available electronic technologies and financial service providers have the need to advertise, offer their products to users, this law will regulate all financial transaction actors and contribute to a higher level of protection of financial services users. The establishment of a single legal framework for the protection of users in the negotiation of all relevant types of financial services should also strengthen the confidence of users in financial service providers and thus significantly increase the volume of electronic business in our country and abroad. It is also important to mention that besides the natural persons, this law also covers farmers and entrepreneurs, which is enough to say how much the Serbian government and the National Bank headed you pay attention to all segments and citizens of Serbia. This is particularly significant given their general level of financial knowledge and knowledge in the field of digitisation and electronic business. I must once again stress that the adoption of this law will encourage the already present digitisation in the financial sector and will encourage users to use their services more massively through modern means of communication, by bringing additional legal protection to the same actors. In voting day, my colleagues from the SNS and I will also support this law and other laws that are on the agenda today, and I call on my fellow Members to support my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38099	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Manojlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, honourable fellow MPs, to this Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in Remote Contracting, I have submitted an amendment in order to further define the subject of this law. In particular, with this amendment, I wanted to highlight the importance of showing what effect this law will have on the strengthening of economic resources. Since economic resources include, in a specific way, human labour, and the general trend of digitisation of society that has long been on the global agenda, so, fortunately, it is present with us to contribute to the growing number of people involved in electronic banking. The value of transactions carried out online was around 20 billion dinars in 2017. I'm saying this because during the discussion we heard from some colleagues sitting across the hall, that this was something that existed before, the possibility of a relationship of contracts. to connect the users of banking services with financial service providers. I don't know what I'd add here except that someone definitely suggested the amendment, so I made some criticism, and he probably didn't read the name of this bill himself, because this is about protecting the users. So this is an entirely single newspaper, and this shows the concerns of both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank towards end-users. With protection, not only will consumers be protected, but also farmers, as well as entrepreneurs who, unfortunately, are not in a position to know the matter so well. There have been some objections, and it is this law that shows that you and how you care about everyone having adequate information before they conclude any kind of contract, and even leave in the good part some 14 days, that if someone consults, advises, that such a contract can be terminated. The wider will be the full availability of information and that is something that is also news, and that banking institutions are obliged to adequately inform potential users. Last year, the number of mobile banking users passed over a million users in Serbia. I hope that in the next period and how this number of users will increase, given that they will have much less prejudice before they deal with the bank. Also today, we heard Mrs. Tabakovic, of whom she has today in the hall about as much as they will probably be officially after some of the next elections, but during last session, something really bothered me to address you, which nobody deserves on a personal or professional level, so I just wanted to ask you not to pay attention to it. You know, when someone here today criticises finance, and dares to say that 60 billion euros were spent in six years, while the Republic of Serbia's budget is 10 billion in total, and six budgets, the total, the Republic of Serbia, have been purposelessly spent, show about its knowledge of finance, so that it finds something to object to both you and such good laws, it speaks of them. Well, fortunately for us and Serbian citizens, they are no longer present in the O.R. today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38101	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lucky, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38102	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the honourable fellow MPs, we are talking primarily today about a set of financial laws and we are talking about the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. In fact, my amendment speaks of the overall effects of this law on our country and the financial system, but I wanted to look first and foremost at my amendment, I say and throw the accent and the effects of this law that may potentially have an impact on local self-government. What I would really like to put an accent on and point out is exactly the fact that this amendment, first of all, I wanted to express my desire to establish a stronger financial discipline, this has nothing to do with the National Bank directly, has to do with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, I'm talking about financial discipline at the level of local self-government. Why does it matter? I would like to mention an example from my personal experience, the experiences of the people who took over the government in 2012, at the level of the municipality of Prokuplje. Namely, at the time the power was taken over by the former government, a total debt amounting to over two and a half billion dinars was found. Let me tell you, it's a really scary fact. Scary for the reason that the annual budget of the Municipality of Prokuplje is a billion and 100 million dinars. So that's almost two and a half budgets left over through, let's say, different basics. This is very important because in this period when the budget was to be developed, when it really existed, and there is a very open story by the government, when there is one attachment to making as many infrastructure projects, schools, hospitals and all those objects that are necessary to the population, we have come to a situation at the level of local self-government to repay the debt. That's sad. This has nothing to do with this law, but this has to do with the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, because the debts of local self-government are definitely being poured over to a republican level when it exists. What's most important of all, and I wanted to put that accent on this with this amendment, is that financial discipline, adequate control of local self-government and sanctioning those who don't respect law and order in this area, must definitely be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38103	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Members of the Ognjanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38104	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Governor, my amendment speaks of the effect of financial stability on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Realising financial stability provides macro-economic stability as one of the key factors for attracting foreign direct investment, i.e. for the growth of investment in the whole. If this adds to the confidence of financial services users, then a business environment is created that is extremely attractive to investment. NBS reports say net inflows based on foreign direct investment have increased to 6.6% of GDP in 2017, and expectations are that total investments in Serbia will take part in almost 22% of GDP this year. The financial package of services in the contract is segments that through this reform make up a business atmosphere that attracts new users. Therefore, increasing the level of consumer protection through achieving a higher level of legal certainty, the right to information and to reduce business costs is a basic prerequisite for creating a good business climate. The National Bank of Serbia has been committed for six years to improving the economic environment, which is the first pillar of the dinarisation strategy and the basis for more use of the dinar in the financial system, but this is also the development of the market for dinar loans, dinar bonds markets and financial derivatives markets, thus strengthening protection against foreign exchange risks. Low, stable and fully controlled inflation in previous years has enabled greater investment, increased consumption and savings, and in general changed the entrepreneurial initiative of citizens. It contributes to sustainable economic growth, with expectations for GDP growth this year and next to 3.5%. In a year, from October 2012 to October 2013, we reduced inflation by over 10%. Interest rates on dinar loans are constantly on the decline, today 11 percentage points are on average lower than earlier ones. So it's clear. Our government does not deal with scandals and plots, but only with our Republic of Serbia. There are no illegal constructions, villas, swimming pools, trams or jeeps behind us, the results are behind us. Making a good monetary policy through maintaining foreign exchange rate stability has given the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will carefully plan to re-elevate the economy that was on the air and raise the standard of living for citizens, raising the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I congratulate you, dear governor, on the great effort and perseverance that have brought extraordinary results and I wish you further success in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38105	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38106	The respected chairman, Governor, Mrs Tabakovic, with associates, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, the amendment I propose aims to further define the cases of this law. The growth of the economy is one of the most significant strategic goals of the Republic of Serbia on which the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic are constantly working. The World Bank also recognised this positively in its report, as well as Serbian citizens, as the results of the latest local elections in Belgrade speak. The positive trend of economic activity in Serbia was recorded in 2017 and continued in 2018. More economic growth has been achieved in the first three months of 2018, thanks to responsible policy, than originally planned, with around 4.5%. This is also the biggest economic growth in the last 10 years, which has moved Serbia from the start of Europe in this segment. The trend of successful foreign investment continued this year, which is positively reflected in wages and the reduction of unemployment. In this respect, the Government is actively working to create a legal framework that would facilitate business and our investors, in the first place small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also covered by this law. According to the European Commission's assessment, domestic demand will further strengthen this year, thanks to investments and continued inflows of foreign investment. Huge public investment of as many as 128 billion dinars has been planned. Serbia is also making very strong exports, and this year it is expected to increase by as much as 9.7%. In this sense, the World Bank predicts that Serbia's economic growth will be around 3% this year. Given the importance of this bill, as well as the fact that economic growth is one of the pillars of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that economic growth must be explicitly highlighted in the first member of this law. The draft law governing the rights of users, conditions, way of protection and the exercise of the rights guaranteed by law, thus achieving the emphasis of significant economic growth and further defining the subject matter of the bill, which is the objective of this amendment. I ask my fellow MPs to accept my amendment in the voting day and adopt all the laws proposed to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38107	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tanja Tomaševic Damnjanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38108	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Governor with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 1. The bill further defines the subject matter of the law, all in order to develop the Republic of Serbia. As one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, an improvement in the use of information and communication technologies in all areas, and in the first place in the economy and in the state administration, with particular contributing to the adoption of the law on electronic document and electronic identification and trust services in electronic business and the Law on Electronic Administration, and the adoption of this law would further contribute to the use of information and communication technologies in the field of financial services. The main objectives of the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in Remote Contracts are to improve the rights of users of financial services and additional protection of users of financial services by increasing transparency and comparison of the provision of these services, in order to enable each citizen and the economic operator to make the right decision on the selection of services and financial institutions and in line with its real needs. And this legal solution is part of the regulatory activities that the National Bank of Serbia is carrying out in order to improve the financial market in our country and achieve its law-set objectives and always in the interest of those for which institutions exist, which are citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38109	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here is counterpart Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38110	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Tabakovic, when we talk about economic development and the economic potentials that our Serbia owns, I must stress that I am extremely proud of the progress we are making. These days, the news of my city, the city of Bora, is current, which will win a new mine. The fact is that in Bor, we are rich in copper ore, and this investment by the Canadian firm Newsun, which is worth almost 600m euros in this second phase, is certainly for pride. The mining research work on the construction of the mines begins, and thousands of people will be working on this project. Otherwise, Rakit Explorejsn, which operates within Canada's Neusuna, has already hired 150 workers. So, in Bor, we expect a thousand new jobs. For my city, this means a lot, for the city's budget, the funds that will come back from this economic subject mean a better life for my fellow citizens. Not only did we get clean air in Bora thanks to this government, but we also got a new development opportunity, and everyone else was bypassing eastern Serbia. We believed in President Vukic, in the government, in you, Mrs Tabakovic, because you all co-edited the Serbian economy together and made it attractive for investors who work with us today and have capital for such serious investments. The Borani do not remember that something this significant happened in Bora after 1903 when RTB "Bor" was launched. I have the opportunity to express my enormous satisfaction and gratitude for such a significant project that will make my fellow citizens' lives better. More importantly, we don't have to worry about ecology because the company will follow the most ecological standards, all thanks to the good team work of state leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38111	Thank you. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38112	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, I propose this amendment to add to Article 1 of this proposal Article 2 which reads: "This law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the improvement of medical institutions." This further defines the subject matter of this Bill. The National Bank of Serbia has achieved and maintained price and financial stability, meeting its law and constitution of the prescribed basic objectives, contributing to the creation of a more stable business, environment, reduction of internal and external imbalances, lower borrowing costs, higher available income, a more sustainable acceleration of economic growth, a significantly lower risk premium, as well as repair of the country's credit rating. It should be borne in mind that these results have been achieved under the conditions of strong challenges between the people's environment that have increased uncertainty in all markets and have demanded increased central bank caution in decision making and implementing measures. Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, since the SNS, led by our President, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, took responsibility for the future of Serbian citizens, i.e. since Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic took responsibility for the work of the National Bank of Serbia, inflation in the Republic of Serbia has been reduced from a double-digit number to a single-digit level comparable to inflation in the most developed European countries. Over a period of only one year, annual inflation was reduced from 12.9% in October 2012 to 2.2% in October 2013. Serbia has been in continuity for five years in a group of countries that have achieved low and predictable inflation in a stable manner. Maintaining a low-inflation environment makes it easier to make decisions made by businessmen related to business planning and investment, as well as by deciding our citizens on consumption and savings. Low and predictable inflation was also a necessary prerequisite to increase investment and thus to produce and export, as well as employment and profit on a sustainable basis. In the past six years, the National Bank of Serbia has established and preserved the relative stability of the exchange rate towards the euro in the ambience of significant turbulence in international markets. As a result of the stability of the exchange rate and inflation, it is possible to effectively implement fiscal consolidation and the balance of state finances, as this minimises the negative effects of these measures on citizens' living standards. If the period from 6 August 2012 to 22 May 2018 is observed, the euro remained almost unchanged, up to 0.3%, with foreign exchange reserves increased by 375m euros based on NBS interventions. On the contrary, in the period from 2008 to 6 August 2012, the dinar lost a third and 33.2% of its value according to the euro, despite the significant spending of foreign reserves, net sales of 5.7 billion euros. Relative stability of the course has contributed to the economic environment being predictable and thus favourable to strengthening both economic and external trade activities. Since 2016, more than half of our production has been placed on foreign markets, the share of exports of goods and services to GDP has reached 52.5% in 2017 and in the first quarter of 2018 and 54.4%. The comparisons in 2012 made exports of goods and services 36.2% of GDP, which means that this participation in GDP was 16.3% higher in 2017. Carefully dosed NBS reactions, foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia were held, as a guarantee of stability and for the next period. From 31 August 2012 to 30 April 2018, the amount of gold in the NBS vault was increased from 4.72 tonnes to 19.65 tonnes, thus creating the conditions to obtain a total of six new linear accelerators and three CT simulators with accompanying equipment and necessary construction works for the Oncology and Radiology Institute of Serbia, the Clinical Centre Nis, the Kragujevac Clinical Centre and the Kladovo Health Centre. The parliamentary group will support this bill in voting day and I call on my colleagues to also support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38113	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague, Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38114	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, governor of the NBS with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the amendment to Article 1 of this law highlights the importance of traffic and traffic integration. As the priority of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, improving the use of information communication technologies in all areas, this law also recognises the importance of financial services, and to ensure that such a system works well for the start, it is also necessary to recognise the importance of telecommunications traffic. For financial services to be of quality use, it is important to deal with fundamental telecommunications disciplines, but also with modern telecommunications and information technologies. Serbia recognises electronic business as a development opportunity. Serbia monitors developed systems, European countries with a high-quality business system, all in order to enable citizens to operate faster and more efficiently, better services, as easier and cheaper access to electronic services. After many years of work, irresponsible persons, whose focus was absolutely everything but the quality of life of citizens, this led to the collapse of the economy, the closure of jobs, the closure of factories. The fact is that by coming to the power of the SNS, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is not only standing on stable foundations, but is considering modernising, improving and using solutions that lead Serbia to increasingly better positions on world-renowned lists, recording growth and development in all areas. I would take advantage of the opportunity to commend work in front of the citizens of Ub Municipality, and to express the gratitude of the NBS on last year's investment, worth 2 million and 700,000 dinars, for the preschool facility in Ub, thereby contributing to a safer and better quality stay of children in the yard of kindergarten. I am pleased that all participants in the system, following the SNS programme together, are acting together, putting the quality of the citizens first and speaking about it with visible results both locally and at the republican level, through various indicators, and this is also shown through this draft of the law that was on the agenda today. Simply because the ambience is such as to think about improving, in this case rights, and primarily to protect citizens' rights and in the area of financial services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38115	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milovan Krivokapic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krivokapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38116	I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this law, which adds a position of two that reads - this law provides for a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities. The National Bank of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of a set of laws and their main feature is the improvement of Serbia's business environment. One of the goals of the new regulations is to reduce the cost of the business of payment cards and online trade, create assumptions for further development of the financial market and additional protection of financial service users. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, and given that internet payments were used by two million users last year and mobile payments of more than a million people, it was necessary to adapt the protection of the use of modern technological means, to use financial services such as telephones or computers. It is in Article 1 of this law that I must stress, and the comprehensively regulated rights of financial service users provided by banks, financial lease providers and traders as well as the conditions and manner of achieving and protecting these rights and the full protection of financial service users has been provided. General technological development and the growing importance of electronic business in modern life have also contributed to developing new ways of offering and advertising financial services, which has also led to the need to further regulate the provision of financial services, in particular by providing them remotely. Serbia is headed by President Aleksandar Vukic and the government of the Republic of Serbia who are working in the interests of the people and the state of Serbia. Serbia is developing faster and faster. There is a rise in domestic economy and new opportunities are opening up, new jobs and citizens have a future they can believe in. That it is very important for the SNS to have a very balanced regional development of Serbia, i.e. that each part of Serbia must be helped by the state to address key issues and problems to this end, I have submitted an amendment one to a member of this law, which further defines that this law ensures the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38117	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. My colleague Repac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to welcome the lady of honor to the governor with her associates and dear colleagues and colleagues. I have submitted to Article 1 of this law an amendment that reads – this law provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving health care. The aim of this law is to improve the protection of users of financial services related to the provision of these services via the Internet and e-mail, by mail or other means of communication at a distance. This is one of the most important newspapers the law adopts, as it allows clients the financial services they need without going to their offices and branches of banks, insurance and lease houses. At the same time, it brings them security in the exercise of rights and the protection of their interests in the use of advanced communication technologies. Thus, thanks to these regulations, customers will be able to raise credit, apply to the allowed minus, deposit money on savings and all without going to the bank and waiting in line with just a few clicks on the Internet. Trend on line financial services has long been affected by developed countries, so banks that don't have a single physical office work largely, all services are provided on the site or via apps on mobile phones. I must say, this is a very modern topic, modern, current and commendable. It affects the most important resources of the individual, and that's health. With this law, we are promoting the health care of all Serbian citizens. We create conditions and enable and facilitate the environment for a better and healthier life. The health generator is social, biological, psychological and economic factors, i.e. the ability of individuals or communities to adapt and government themselves when facing physical, mental, psychological and social changes in the environment. When we talk about health care compared to this law, then we think about temporary health care. So, to preserve mental health and physical health, to reduce stress, to solve social and economic problems. This is how we improve the quality of our citizens, the lives of our citizens and indirectly improve health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38119	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Lukic's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Governor with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a financial service to every financial nature service provided by one of the financial services providers. In terms of this law, these are credit and other services which are, by their nature, banking, insurance, voluntary pension fund management, payment services, electronic money provision services, investment services and financial contracts in terms of specific laws which are governed by these services. The means of communication at a distance is any means that can be used for direct advertising, the provision of information in the pre-contractual phase, the giving and acceptance of offers, the negotiation and conclusion of contracts without the simultaneous physical presence of service providers and users. For example, the Internet, e-mail, mail, fax and phone. Due to the increased risk that the user will choose a financial product without the necessary explanation and commit to a financial institution that does not agree on its needs, there is a need for special protection for all financial institutions in our market. This encourages digitisation in the financial sector and encourages users to make the most of modern means of communication. Achieving financial stability that would not have been possible if the current and previous government and Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic had not led a policy of preserving price and fiscal stability, contributed to creating a more stable business environment, reducing internal and external balances, low borrowing costs, greater available income, a more sustainable acceleration of economic growth, a significantly lower risk premium and repairing our country's credit rating. In this way, better conditions for attracting investment and creating a favourable environment for their development have been disabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38121	National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Yokic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38122	I am particularly interested in the impact of the law on economic development, as this is the basis of overall development. This law, article 1, directly affects the increase of GDP, i.e. GNP. We all know that this GDP, or GNP, is actually a sum of four, or five terms. Directly, Article 1 affects the increase in the sum of citizens' consumption. The consumption of citizens must increase. The fact that 20 billion traffic was made through cards in 2017 is encouraging via the Internet. However, this consumption must be much higher and must be driven by the same amount of goods, the same amount of money will buy a larger quantity of goods and thus will boost production and thus boost GDP. How? You spoke nicely, the problem is the banks that participate in the issue of cards. So one is a bank that receives a card, the other is a bank that has issued a card, the third is a store, and the fourth is a participant who has to profit from all that, it's a citizen. So far, between banks, she's figured a 1.2% rate. You now predict that there should be 0.2%. So there's a space opening. Now, that space needs to be used to get the dealer. When he gets a trader, he has to do it to get a consumer citizen, to make the price lower. On the other hand, what must be made possible by what you predicted? So-called instant payment, 24-hour payment. You today when you pay off the funds, say Friday at one bank, and he wants you to transfer the money to another bank, that money will only be in another bank on Monday. Watch out, almost two days. What you predict to be somewhere in October 2018, it's a big deal, it's being transferred at the same time, it's going to be all seven days a week and it's going to be 24 hours. What's not good is not good, and you said that 80% of these cards are processed out of the country. Look, you've done a lot as governor, but there's a lot more you have to do. You're the one who found the mess. On the other hand, you've had a stable political situation, on the other hand, you're influencing a stable political situation, but, I say, it can't be allowed. This country must benefit from all these payment transactions. Now the question is, how much money from 2000 to 2012, that's one period, and then from 2012 when we came to power in some combination, by 2018, it left this country through foreign banks through commissions and various costs that you are now starting to control, or that we are controlling? I represent the thesis that in 2000 banks were destroyed not because they were not liquid. Liquids weren't companies. They deliberately destroyed banks in 2000 to keep businesses, factories clean for sale, so they could sell them without mortgages, without asking. Now, in a situation like this, I can't give in to the impression, look out, I think the state would still have to have its own bank. There'd have to be a bank where there's 100% state property. We have to do everything we can to cut our costs to the citizens. So not only does it increase the standard of citizens by increasing pensions or salaries, but also by reducing costs. Now take one average household. How much, say, a monthly average household has to pay the bill? Five to ten. Be careful, if on every account, info, phone, cell phone, etc. He has to pay the commission, the commission used to be 150 dinars, big money leaving. We must allow the citizens that this cost does not exist or to be minimal. Now, in what way? What you started to do, so the banks have to be put under maximum control. All of this must be included in that interest. The interest must contain everything the bank says according to whoever takes the money from the banks. I think what you started, it's just the beginning of the situation on the banking market. The situation, I say, has been difficult, but it has to be much better and it needs to be considered, so these costs that citizens have are as low as possible because of these fees. I hope so, and I think you know the economic theory well, because I've been teaching economic mathematics for years, I think you have all the preconditions, you have a stable political situation, and you can do a lot more in the next period. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38123	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vujadinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38124	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, a respected governor, in addition to everything my colleagues from the SNS have proposed as amendments, I have proposed an amendment concerning the fight against crime, all in order to improve and improve the development of the Republic of Serbia. Before I say anything about the amendment itself, I think it is correct and human to mention and praise all the efforts you make to preserve this financial stability in Serbia, just as the government and the president do on the way of preserving that political stability, because they certainly condition one another. The result, the results are also visible. Last year, Bloomberg seems to have declared the dollar the second best currency in the world. Growth, a serious growth in dinar savings compared to total savings in Serbia. It's clear that this currency is still ahead of the big one, but this relationship is slowly, I say, on a percentage basis, in terms of increase, changing in the direction of increased dinar savings. The inflation rate is somewhere at 1.5%, where we are somewhere to say in European standards and about the environment and not to talk, because we have a much smaller rate than many countries around. Maintaining the stability of the dinar course, at minimum foreign reserve costs. If we add to all of this and I say, this establishment of a predictable business environment, we ultimately have 2.6 billion investments in 2017. Now, no matter what I or any MP or any man in Serbia says today, it is probably the most objective criterion, because it is clear that no one will invest their money where you have no financial and political stability, wherever you live and wherever that investor comes from. It is the most objective indicator of success when it comes to the structures of government in the Republic of Serbia. However, dear governor, I come from the north of Bucka and the title itself, and I have spoken to my fellow citizens, my neighbors, and the very title of this law that we are talking about today associates citizens with certain events that have been happening in recent days. They come out in public, and the details slowly become clearer and visible and ordinary people. You know that in recent days there has been some serious money and some serious financial transactions in the Republic of Serbia, above all, in order to help some opposition groups, headed by Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, etc. However, from this point on, one question that a simple man is really asking for a reason -- how did we get the Qatar Embassy from Berlin, watch out, from Berlin, not Belgrade, to pay 200,000 euros to Vuk Jeremic for help? If you have in mind that all his international associates have been arrested in the last days around the world in actions of international police structures, it is clear that this suspicion is objective. So we come up with that money either obtained by crime or being used for crime, and at the very least it can be used to collapse, i.e. to finance activities that are directly aimed at destroying stability in Serbia. And then as a consequence of the collapse and financial stability and political stability, the consequences can be fatal. My amendment is precisely on the trail and a reminder to the team and such actors, such as those on the criminal path, such as the actors from my previous story, to stand as a warning in this legislative proposal that this crime will not become something that will destroy Serbian society again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38125	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38126	The esteemed governor with fellow Members of Parliament, as you can see in the MPs' benches, looks like this is what the Assembly Hall looks like almost every afternoon. Your right side is full, this other side is empty. That's what happens when the opposition cracks with criticism and retreats with arguments. With this proposal for a law on the protection of customers of financial services, when negotiated remotely, my colleagues said a lot of things, it is a very important law, as well as all five submitted by the NBS, which affect primarily business improvement and the security of our citizens. For the first time, it is comprehensive, to say the protection of financial service users and the comprehensive rights of financial service users provided by banks, which is also the aim of the NBS to control banks, but not just banks, but also financial leasers and traders, as well as the conditions and means of achieving the protection of these rights. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 adding Article 2 because I wanted to point out how much this law, which was passed by the NBS, contributes to increasing foreign investment in Serbia and speeding up the financial turnover, leading to the country's rapid progress. An increase in investment shows investors believe in the country's political and financial stability, as investment in long-term dinar government bonds has been increased, showing they have confidence in stability and Serbia's development on the long term. Due to general technological development, there was a need to further regulate the provision of financial services, above all, their distance provision. E-business is increasingly important in modern life. It is one of our government's priorities, to move towards digitisation, to accelerate growth, to reduce the cost of services and to bring them closer in a quick and easy way to all citizens of Serbia. Dear Governor, I'd just like to say this in the end. You've really shown that you know and that you can deal with accumulated problems. After your arguments, the opposition has always been speechless. That's my impression, I apologize. I want a lot of nbs success under your leadership and in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38127	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38128	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, MPs, my amendment referred to Article 1 where it should be added to the view that this law relating to distance financial services should really be a special reference and an accent given to the implementation of the Agenda for 2030. It is a UN roof document that implies the goals of sustainable development that the world should go towards 2030, fully prepared to deal with all these innovative, scientific and technological changes, as well as changes in society and similar climate change that we are all aware of. It should be said that this law has shown the essence of Serbia's modernisation in terms of financial services and is in line with the Sustainable Development Goals, the 2030 Agenda, among which 17 targets are the eighth objective – decent work and economic growth. There are 169 sub-targets. The most important two sub-targets that define this law are sub-target 8.3 which just says that access to financial services should be included in a way that will be fully oriented to support economic development policy, worthy of all, entrepreneurship, creativity, innovation and fostering growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what we're essentially getting from this. By promoting this type of financial services and by increasing the number of cards, by increasing the use of innovative, i.e. information technologies in banking, we essentially get the organisation of the sector itself and society at a new level. What is important is to say that one of the other sub-targets is in fact strengthening the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and extend the availability of banking, insurance, financial conditions for all. It is this sentence and sub-target that this law can simply be done if there is a political consensus between the Serbian government, the National Bank of Serbia and the president of the state when it comes to the regulation of a very important sector, which will benefit the citizens of Serbia. So, despite the fact that these amendments have not been accepted, I think you should say that these laws are going to meet the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38129	Thank you, colleague Tomic. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38130	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a respected governor with associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this law, otherwise to a member who deals with general provisions, and with the desire for it to be further explained, affirmed and brought closer to the citizens of Serbia. I don't think I'll have anything special to explain. I think the governor explained a lot in that part of the session when it was debated in principle. With one pedagogical approach and with a high dose of patience, the governor provided answers to all the questions asked by the MPs and these questions that were more like provocations, with a purely political background, in order to realistically deny all the successes so far, to minimise and declare failure and failure. The Governor's examples of NBS efforts to preserve monetary and financial stability, i.e. moves to preserve the stability of domestic currency, are simply arguments that have been established and applied daily in practice. After your exhaustive and professional answers, Madam Governor, I think the public has had the opportunity to make sure that the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia run one responsible policy and that all the objectives and tasks ahead of them are met, and that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, has appointed before them. I believe that SNS MPs, as well as our coalition partners, will support this law, as well as a set of these laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38131	Thank you, Comrade Bakery. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38132	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen MPs, honourable citizens, amendment to Article 1. I submitted a proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in the distance contract to further define the subject matter of this law. The draft law primarily refers to banking services, insurance services, lising services, voluntary pension funds, payment services, electronic money issue services, financial contracts, as well as investment services. The main objective of this law is to improve the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, i.e. when contracting these services via the Internet, e-mail, mail or using other means of communication at a distance. This draft provides for the right to inform beneficiaries of financial services at the pre-contractual stage and after the conclusion of the contract, the right to give up the contract at a distance, the right to terminate from that contract, the right to protect against services which are not required and other rights of the users of financial services when contracting at a distance, as well as the achievement of the protection of the rights and interests of those users, the supervision of the application of the provisions of this law. Users of these services are natural persons, entrepreneurs and farmers, as well as carriers or members of family agricultural land. The adoption of this bill will create a high level of protection for financial services users, strengthening the financial market in the Republic of Serbia, then adopting a set of single rules and principles for all financial services that can be negotiated remotely, as well as harmonisation with the EU Directive. Also, this law will contribute to strengthening the confidence of customers of financial services in the sale of remote financial services, as well as to achieving a higher level of legal certainty in the provision of services, as well as to reducing the costs of the business of competent financial institutions, such as the NBS, the Securities Commission and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications of the Republic of Serbia. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38133	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, colleague Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38134	The Honorable Chairman, a respected governor with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services as a law, which primarily defines the use of these services remotely, is of exceptional importance and, of course, its order to be the first in the set of these laws certainly speaks of how much we expect from this law. What I must remind the representatives of the opposition and all those who at all doubt the results of the NBS and what the NBS suggests is that these laws only continue the continuity and scale that is raised and raised from day to day in the NBS will probably be for example, I said in principle debate, they will probably study in schools, both in Serbia and abroad, because in 2012, when the NBS finally got a governor who, by his record and his experience, knowledge and relationship to work can change and change the NBS in a direction that is primarily relevant to the state of Serbia and its citizens, but this law as a law will fundamentally show the difference between 2012 and the period from 2000 to 2012. Now we're talking about the protection of customers of financial services in a distance settlement, and by 2012, financial services were neither stamped nor two, not just two, with 22 witnesses you once couldn't do, because nobody trusted anyone, and at least they believed in financial services, even if they were with the stamp and with two or 22 witnesses. In 2018 we are talking about remote services and we are talking about services that will be provided without stamps and without any other contact, physical arrivals or going to a bank or any other financial institution. What is also significant is that talented people live in Serbia and if someone suspected that electronic business and digitisation would not live in Serbia, of course, when Prime Minister Vukic presented a plan for digitisation to be one of the basics of the development of the Republic of Serbia, all who did not think well of Serbia doubted it, but of course they were wrong. I will return to the citizens of Serbia, on this day in Serbia from two to 92 years in order not to offend someone, we will raise the border to 102, from two to 102 years of age, everyone is using electronic business and everyone is honest and able to do so, and above all, that it will be at the highest level and security and for citizens and for those who provide financial services is the National Bank of Serbia and the laws that are on the agenda. In the voting day, all those who think well of Serbia and think well of their citizens will vote in favour of the laws. Those who don't think so, let them see what they'll do with themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38135	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38136	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, respected Mrs Tabakovic, Serbia has been on the move since 2012 through the accelerated development of modernisation, digitalisation, higher standard of living and the overall better life of its citizens. The rapid technological development and the growing importance of electronic business have contributed to the introduction of new means of supply and advertising, which has led to the need for further editing by providing financial services, in particular by providing them remotely. The proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, which we are discussing, clearly regulates the right of users of financial services, using modern and information-communication technologies, conditions and way of achieving and protecting these rights. In order to further define the subject matter of this law, I submitted an amendment and suggested that Article 1 add to Article 2 that reads - this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to improving the work of local self-government. It is very difficult to improve the work of local self-government, especially when they are taken over from the hands of irresponsible people from the previous regime whose local self-governments were feuds and prey for personal gain and increase their own capital. I come from the municipality of Novi Knezevec in which the script - ruin and rob, daily spent until 2016. Before 2000, we were classified in a row of developed municipalities where there were no unemployed, in which children knew that they were expecting jobs with the right to work and progress. The robbery privatisation project abolished their right, and the New Prince became an environment in which it was very difficult to live. Today after two years of SNS taking responsibility and new jobs have been opened in the municipality, new production plants have started to be built, numerous investments are under way, citizens' dignity has been raised above all, faith has been restored in a better and happier future, and the ugly past has been slowly suppressed. Fortunately, it is not forgotten, which shows the election results and the two-thirds trust of the SNS and Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38137	Thank you. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38138	The Honorable Chairman, Mrs Tabakovic, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in Distant Contracting. Article 1 lays down the subject-matter of the law and is prescribed to regulate the rights of users of financial services when contracting financial services by means of means of long-distance communication, as well as the conditions and means of achieving and protecting those rights. The adoption of the Financial Services Consumer Protection Act in 2011 and 2014 was the first time fully provided for the protection of financial services users and the comprehensive rights of financial service users provided by banks, financial leasers and traders, as well as the conditions and means of achieving and protecting those rights were comprehensively regulated. To the users of insurance services and voluntary pension funds, protection at a similar level was provided through the Insurance Act adopted in 2014 and the Law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans from 2005 and 2011. The application of those laws in the Republic of Serbia has reached a high standard of protection for users of financial services. However, general technological development and the growing importance of electronic business in modern life have also contributed to developing new ways of offering and advertising financial services, which has led to the need for further editing and providing financial services, in particular by providing them remotely. One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to improve the use of information-communication technologies in all areas of the first place, in the economy and in the state administration, which contributes particularly to the adoption of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Identification and Services of Trust in Electronic Business and the Law on Electronic Administration. The adoption of a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts would further contribute to the use of information and communication technologies in the field of financial services. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support the proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38139	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here's my colleague Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38140	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is fully moving towards the goal of this government to advance the use of information and communication technologies in all areas, and firstly in the economy and the state administration, with particular contribution to the adoption of the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification, the Law on Electronic Administration, and the adoption of law on the protection of financial services users in a distance contract would further contribute to the use of information and communication technologies in the field of financial services. All of this means that this government and this assembly majority are committed to digitising and improving the use of information-communication technologies in all areas. The work has resulted in the example that today’s construction permits are being obtained faster than ever by electronic means. The total number of permits issued for the construction period January-March 2018 is 14.4% higher than for the period last year. The estimated value of works in this period increased by 20.7%. All this makes it clear about Serbia's development in terms of infrastructure. All these investors who are customers of the financial services needed for construction will feel a positive impact through the wider availability of financial services and a greater choice between existing financial service providers on the market so that they can choose the most favourable financial service that meets their needs regardless of how far the nearest exposure is. Also, financial service providers are given an additional incentive to advertise remotely financial services in a reliable and predictable way and to conclude contracts with users. In any case, the already present digitisation in the financial sector is encouraged and users are encouraged to use these services more massively through modern means of communication, additional protection, and all of this will lead to Serbia's development in all fields, especially with regard to increasing infrastructure capacity, as Serbia thanks to this ruling majority today is a major construction site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38141	Thank you, fellow Pantovic. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38142	I thank the chairman. Dear Governor, this amendment complements Article 1 of this proposal for a law as, in addition to regulating the rights of beneficiaries of financial services, using means of communication at a distance, as well as the conditions and means of achieving and protecting those rights, it must also take account of better access to economic resources. In this proposal for a law, these are a detailed right to inform financial services users, the right to withdraw from a distance contract, the right to terminate that contract and other rights of users of financial services in a distance contract, as well as to protect the rights and interests of those users and to monitor the application. All this points to the fact that only a serious and detailed approach to this type of definition of remote financial services can affect the development of the Republic of Serbia, and thus the better use of economic resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38143	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Filipovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38144	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic, it's a good thing we don't have anyone across from us, to listen to all that nonsense about how nothing is wrong in the country of Serbia. In the country of Serbia, there is nothing wrong with tycoons taking money from banks and not paying it back, and then paying the citizens of Serbia back their debts, and that is why all criticism comes at the expense of you as governor of the NBS, so all criticism goes to SNS and Alexander Vukic, because in the country of Serbia today there is law and order. You can't put your hand in the bank anymore today, take as much as you need because you're friends with the prime minister or with the finance minister and never get that money back. It will never be in Serbia again, so there will never be again this yellow failed, decommissioned company in power, along with its various remains and fritzlams stemming from that and such a company. That is why in Serbia, I am confident, as long as you run the NBS and as long as the SNS is in power, the course remains stable, so Serbia will continue to grow foreign reserves, so it will continue to grow the reserves that we have in gold, so we will continue to have a stable course, I said, stable public finances, a stable state, and, I am confident, therefore our citizens will continue to have a good, positive impact on all of this, to live on better and more securely, so this year we will have a significant increase in wages and pensions and wages and public sector, and this is due to just one good, stable policy, responsible policies towards the state and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38145	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Governor with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, should not be a financial expert, such as I am not, in order to understand the importance of reforming financial conditions and to spread financial influence, which overall develops the Republic of Serbia, and any positive shift in such development, in my view, should have a certain impact on Serbs in the region. That's why all my amendments are about the impact on Serbs in the region. We must in no way reject the fact that in one part of the EU, for example in Hungary, Romania, I live in Banat, so it is close to me, a large number of Serbs who have a certain financial power and would very much like to finance in their queen, only if we had this -- financial security, protection and support. Their financial strengthening and economic prosperity strengthen both the role and importance of Serbia itself in the region. Take, for example, the Republic of Hungary. Today, the Hungarian government is seriously financing the purchase of its country of its countrymen in Serbia, financing the purchase of their products, agricultural products, allowing easier exports, i.e. Imports into their country and this Hungarian government achieves more effects -- one stronger Hungarian community, on the other hand, strengthens trust in the host they co-operate with, and all of this together affects truly friendly relations with Serbia today. Today's excellent relations between the two states and the two statesmen, Victor Orban and Alexander Vukic, are on this very basis. Poltronic policy, which consisted of – Ivo, brother and Boris, my dear helped Croatia get into the EU uninterruptedly, but what was done for the Serbian issue in Croatia, what was done for their property, for their human rights, when it was possible? How much is involved in tears, blood, sweat of the Krajina Serbs for Croatia to enter the EU uninterrupted? Selling its own people is the only financial instruction, is the only financial policy dealing with the previous government and the previous regime. That's gotta change. I know, Mrs. Tabakovic, that you feel the same way about me and whether you accept such amendments or not, they make sense just to warn and distract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38147	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague, Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38148	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic and her associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, have heard in the debate these days very detailed, professional and very precise explanations by Governor Tabakovic on the subject of the proposed laws. Indeed great effort and a detailed expert explanation, any possible concerns of MPs and the public are explained to the last relevant information. The work of the NBS is measurable and very visible in the everyday life and quality of the standard of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. What we most often measure the work of each governor is precisely the stability of the domestic currency. The arrival of Jorgovanka Tabakovic as governor and its work in the past six years has reached and maintained price and financial stability, meeting its legally prescribed basic objectives and contributing to creating a more stable business environment, reducing internal and external imbalances, lower borrowing costs, greater available income, speeding up economic growth, as well as repairing the country's credit rating, and all achieved in the context of very strong challenges from the international environment. What is the most visible and far-reaching result of NBS is certainly the preservation of stability and predictability of inflation. Inflation has been reduced from a double-digit level to a level comparable to European standards. In 2012, inflation was 12.9%, and by October 2013, inflation was reduced to 2.2%, and now the average level is 1.9%. These and many other significant results of the NBS, which I will discuss in the subsequent amendments, have been praised by almost all MPs of the opposition in the principle debate. I believe they've realized that there's no room to fight numbers and exact results, speculation, lies and cheap political points. However, behind all the praise for the NBS results and for Governor Tabakovic's work, there was an effort for the work of President Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Brnabic. Well, how illogical and practically impossible is that? According to your word, the opposition, I'd say that NBS achieved this result where, perhaps, in Nigeria? Fortunately, collective awareness and general knowledge of political opportunities is at a far higher level than you, MPs of the opposition, want to underestimate them, and it is perfectly clear that the policy led by the former prime minister, and today Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, Prime Minister Brnabic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS policy is highly synchronised, causal and consequent, so it is clear that without the commitment of state policy, the preservation of international position, committed work in resolving internal issues, there is no result of the NBS and vice versa. It is very clear why the governors appointed by the DS did not have any approximate results, but we remember the time of the democratic governors as the time when the NBS was a self-service for the settlement of interest and financing of DS and its officials. I also want to congratulate the DS on the election of a new president and I believe it was very difficult for them to decide between several candidates. The eyewitnesses say that it almost reminded the former popular quiz – person A – I am Dragan Gilas, person B – I am Dragan Gilas, person C – I am Dragan Gilas. I believe that we will watch a similar scenario again – Djilas kicked Jeremic out of DS, Tadic left the DS for Djilas, Djilas retired because of Pajtic, Pajtic resigned as MP for Sutanovac, Sutanovac supported Jankovic as president, and Jankovic is making a coalition with Jeremic and Djilas, who kicked Jeremic out. It's just that we still have to see in this circus where the Luthor is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38149	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38150	Article 27. Mr. Chairman, you should have followed up and warned a colleague who spoke earlier. Of course, she wrote or got it written, it's all one thing, a speech where she praised the governor, where she praised this regime, where she praised the government and, of course, we have nothing against it. She is the MP of the congregation's majority and let her do it, but I don't know how you didn't notice, she smirked and smiled – she won't be like in Nigeria. So Nigeria is a friendly state of Serbia. Nigeria is a state that has not recognised KIM, nor will it ever be. Nigeria is a country that must enjoy absolute respect here and it is unacceptable for Nigeria to serve the MP as it is on the way – we will not be as bad as in Nigeria, with a mockery. Please take care of it in the future. It is very important for us to have every vote, any state that does not recognise the false state of Kosovo, which KIM sees as part of the Republic of Serbia, which is what we do, and that every country that has this relationship must really be respected and mentioned and that we talk about such countries. On the other hand, you have the enemies of Serbia, like the United States and this Scott who can tell you anything in Serbia. No one's gonna say anything bad to him, but it's not Scott anymore, it's Scott, etc. So I ask you, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, to respect all the friends of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38151	Thank you. With respect to your attitude and suggestion, I don't think the colleague had a bad intention. Of course, we respect Nigeria as we respect both Burudna and Guinea and Bisal and Suriname and all the countries you spoke of earlier. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The word has the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38152	Your Honor, the MP, I don't know what's politically correct. I want to say that we are here today and we can talk about Serbia this way, precisely because we know what our goals are, how we achieve them, disciplined them, promoting the goals of the state, showing our own discipline and promoting our name. At the moment you said that the National Bank of Serbia had not achieved these results on its own and on its own, I understood you as well as I did when someone said you are good but teach others. Your comment that the National Bank of Serbia did not achieve these results anywhere in Nigeria was the most harmless illustration of the situation in which the state of Serbia is the whole, the Prime Minister and the National Bank of Serbia. I'm very glad that you've said it in such an illustrative way by illustrating one of the friendly countries that helps us to maintain territorial integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38153	Thank you. Natasa (Spasoje) Jovanovic. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38154	Articles 27, 32 and 116 have been injured. You were about to react when the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jorganka Tabakovic, spoke. She is not an interpreter of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you or Mr Martinovic should have told her before the beginning of this session that, first of all, while the MPs are saying that with this lady, who does not know who is next to her, who has been making faces since June 1st since we were in session, her associate, and together with her, they have been whispering. Please protect the MPs from the rude conduct of these present ladies, no matter what functions they perform. So, you were supposed to interrupt her at the moment, because according to Article 116, you and Martinovic were supposed to tell her, Jorgenka Tabakovic at this session can in this part of the session, when it comes to discussion in particular, talk two minutes about the amendment. If she had spoken about the text of my colleague's amendment, I would have understood, but if she had put herself in the role of the interpreters of advertising of the Rules of Procedure, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs. Verice Radete, it's really inadmissible, especially because of the fact, which I'm just now reporting to intervene. I abstained from the first, when this session began, very rudely, and she and the lady concerned next to her, were acting when we intervened in the Rules of Procedure, or when we presented something about amendments, and especially the lady, whom she should probably deign, that this was the National Assembly, because Tabakovic herself was also, when she was an MP of the SRS and when she knew the order and discipline, until she stole that mandate, she also reacted when co-workers from other ministries came.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38155	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I believe that the governor of the National Bank of Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic reported in accordance with her law under Article 158. I also believe that if someone has shown independence in their work and correctness in these five years and that it is part of the work and part of its function, it is Jorgenka Tabakovic, so I don't think she intended to offend anyone, either you or Mrs. Radet, of course, or the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38156	Member 107, Mr. Marinkovic. I called about two things. First, my colleague Sandra Bozic did not take offense to any country in the world, especially Nigeria, but wanted to point out to Serbian and Governor Tabakovic's on-call critics that the excellent economic results that have been achieved have not been achieved since 2014, especially in another country, but in a country where we all live and in which citizens can testify that they have achieved significant results on both economic and financial terms. As far as Nigeria is concerned, of course we respect it, as you must respect the fact that Nigeria has not recognised the independence of KIM and that some of the countries that have recognised it have withdrawn their recognition is not your credit, but the merit of Alexander Vukic of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the merits of our foreign policy, which is completely different from the one that was led until 2012. On the other hand, if anyone behaves politely and politely at a session of the National Assembly that discusses the laws proposed by the NBS, then it is precisely Mrs Tabakovic with her associates, who has not left the room for one minute while the debate is being held, who listens carefully to all the MPs and answers their questions in a very professional way that is understandable to Serbian citizens. So these poisonous arrows that are referred to Mrs Tabakovic's account, I think they come from people who seem to care about time in 2008. It's 2018, it's been 10 years. I don't think the theme of the mandate, the theme of Jorvanka Tabakovic and 2008 is really interested in anyone in Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38157	Thank you. You do not want the Assembly to declare itself, and although I am a speaker, I agree that, as was the function of the MP, it is also doing a great job as governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38158	Thank you. I also believe that the reaction to the breach of the Rules of Procedure was in line with the Rules of Procedure, but inadequate. You could have warned a little bit more about anyone who advertised the Rules of Procedure in the way it was advertised, because in a particular case, there was no manifestation of any behavior that would hurt the reputation of this home. This home truly deserves every reputation and in a special sense of the word. I fully agree with the fact that not only Guinea-Bissau and many other countries, Nigeria and any other countries that have called off their consent to become an independent state, implies the consequence of the extremely good and quality work of the state of Serbia's leadership, according to Serbia's Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, who has made an unmistakable contribution just going to all countries that could have been isolated in the direction of recalling anything that implies the benefit of a quasi-fit that should never be allowed to become a state, and that is what is now happening in Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38159	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I believe that there was no bad intentions and injuries to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to discussion and colleagues Jovanovic and Vjerica Radete, while of course I believe that we are obviously on the same task, and the ruling coalition and Serbian radicals, so that we can agree on this part of withdrawing recognition and that political action and aspects in this regard. Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP LJibuška Lakatoš submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38160	Thank you. The President-in-Office, distinguished Mrs Tabakovic and his associates, the honourable MPs, the aim of adopting the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in remote bargaining is to improve the rights of users of financial services and to further protect those users and to specify how to negotiate at a distance, as well as to bring domestic legislation into line with EU legislation. The programme objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to improve the use of information and communication technologies in all areas are also confirmed by the adoption of the proposed law. And this is one example where we can clearly see Serbia's commitment to the continuation of the European path, as well as the visible progress of the start-up reform processes. The government of the Republic of Serbia is leading Serbia through European integration, an important mechanism for the overall development of our country. Modernising the payment system, reducing the cost of the economy in the business of payment cards and making it a line of trade and additional protection of financial service users improves the business environment, creating much more favourable financing conditions, which ensures Serbia's accelerated development. With the amendment I submitted to Article 1, I wanted to point out how important it is to pay attention and attention to the school system, where we need to open new profiles, where we will educate experts, and in the information area, which will implement its knowledge both in the area of IT technology and in the area of finance and thus contribute to Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38161	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38162	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about digitization and electronic business, we must be aware that one of the well-deserved citizens, or we can say the culprit, the great creator of Nikola Tesla. It is a product of his accomplishment and we today have the opportunity in a much easier and more quality way to do many things. Nikola Tesla, like other scientists and inventors, created these works and inventions, had a positive side in mind. He wanted to make it easier and more efficient for people to live and finish certain jobs. But what happens on the other side? Someone is trying to abuse it, so we have a lot of abuses in this business system. That's why this article 1 is talking about protecting the rights of users, and I'm going to give you one example that happened to me, it's not about these financial transactions, but this morning a message came to my cell phone, where it's said - we congratulate you for successfully applying for some VIP game, I have no idea, some stupidity, I didn't sign up, I didn't play games. But someone abuses the possibility of these communications, it's some company 4444, four fours, and then they inform me that they're going to refuse me so many and so many dinars a week. So, in all of our wishes to make it easier and more efficient for citizens, we have to make sure that there is no abuse, that they do not only benefit but that they have damage to it. What's the biggest problem, listening to my colleagues' discussions? The problem here is that we've all subordinated everything to the material part of the world today. We have neglected both moral and social and spiritual, and how Tesla, whom I have already quoted in his famous doctrine, states that the human race could go forward, must create true education and true culture. And these two areas of human life must rest on three pillars – one is social, the other is moral, and the third is spiritual. Now, we're going to have to do a little bit more to make it possible for our citizens and citizens of the world to have a decent life and to provide what is our goal to all of us, and that is the well-being of all members of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38163	Thank you, Professor. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, the word is "The Faith of Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38164	This amendment, even if it were seriously written with serious intentions, could not be accepted, because it really has absolutely nothing to do with what is written in the amendment. It is proposed to add a new position to Article 1 and that this position is -- this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rights of refugees and exiled persons. So this law has nothing to do with the rights of escaped and exiled persons. Who escaped and exiled faces today in Serbia? Meanwhile, fortunately, many have gained citizenship, are employed, have their own private jobs, etc. Those who stayed in this status are old people, unemployed people, just lack a credit card to go to the bank to raise money. So don't make fun of things. When it comes to evading and exiled faces, many of the people in this particular section are disabled, participants and disabled in the last wars. I assume you all know that there is a law in Serbia on the rights of military people with disabilities and fighters of the last wars. But I don't know if you know how this law applies. I really need to draw attention to the fact that, thanks to some strange application of this law, these faces and members of the families of the dead fighters don't get a single penny of what they have under the law after a few months. That's what they're called. Unsecured persons, that's how the law treats them, and they get compensation every year. The solutions last from April 1st to March 31st next year. Then every year, the ministry sets out some criteria on which new solutions are made. Now imagine, on April 31st, there was a deadline when these people were to be brought new solutions, and the ministry's inspection only in May brought instructions to those needed to make solutions in municipalities. Any solution made in the municipality must be audited and this procedure can take several months, and earlier it was so that these persons received advances that were later accounted for when they were given these solutions and if those solutions had become just. This, gentlemen, is no longer done and therefore unsecured wartime disableds, war participants and families of fallen fighters do not receive a single dinar after a few months, and the question is really how they live and how they survive. Just one more sentence concerning the earlier remarks by a colleague that no one is interested in Serbia about what happened in 2008, who stole the mandates, etc. In a few years, someone might say that no one cares that Meho Omerovic was stealing perfume at Frankfurt airport, but, you know, honor and shame live until the century, there's no statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38165	Thank you. It wasn't the subject of the amendment. What wasn't the theme of the amendment? ) A colleague of Omerović. Thank you. The word is Milimir Vujadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38166	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. I think we all have a duty to respect the dignity of this respected home, primarily speaking of those categories of population that are among the most vulnerable in Serbia today, and that has avoided and displaced are safe. For the public's sake, you can't deny from this place the existence of evasive and displaced persons, although that's the intensity of the last months when it comes to our colleague Linta's amendments. I certainly support his amendment and I'll vote for him. In every law to mention refugees and their rights and how justified. Today in Serbia there are 28,000 people registered as refugees and displaced persons still. Of course, there are those who have become citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the meantime, but this does not mean that their status is resolved, many of them are still not settled on a residential basis. On that road, I must say again, this government has done the most. As you know, this regional housing program has been launched. Here, I'm talking about the case from Subotica. Last year we signed two 600,000-euro contracts, providing more than 70 refugee families with building materials and buying houses for those same refugees. They are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have citizenship, but they are still unsecured. By noting 28,000 of these, there is still the status of a refugee without the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. To deny their existence from this place is indeed at least an insult to both this home and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I'm asking you next time to warn this kind of effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38167	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. (Miss Radeta: Replica. I can't give you the replica of Radet's colleague on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (The Faith of Radet: All right, then I will also hurt the Rules of Procedure.) All right, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just to ask my colleague Vujadinovic, do you want the National Assembly to come forward in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38168	Article 27. Indeed, this earlier looked more like a replica than a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which doesn't bother us, I have to repeat it every time, because we advocate that MPs can speak freely and openly whatever they want, but I don't know where they were pulled from earlier in the injury of the Rules of Procedure to deny the existence of displaced and exiled persons in Serbia. That's really amazing. On the contrary, I have spoken and speak of the need to pay much more attention to resolving the final status of all these people. A colleague who spoke earlier was, as far as I know, the president of a refugee association in one part of the former Yugoslavia. There may be no problem with that, but I don't know if he knows, say, about the problems of the exiled faces living in Chačka, in heaven or on earth, they don't know what's waiting for them tomorrow, no paper can get. Some donations built buildings and people moved in, they were told, come into that apartment, you don't have any paper, no one gives them the right to use, no right to ransom, etc. I've talked about it, and every time I talk about it, so I'm not abused, but simply as much as this amendment is about resolving those rights, what I'm saying is much more about solving the rights of those people who are being exiled from their hearths. So no one helped them. They say that Lint was coming to the campaign, every time, three times in the campaign he came and said every time – he'll solve the problem. Not until today. That's why it's a good thing there's an amendment like this, so we can talk to each other in public, so maybe we can animate the ministry from here to do something to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38169	Thank you. Yes, he looked a lot like a replica of my colleague Vujadinovic's speech to me, and I listened very closely, and I think there was a misunderstanding. Anyway, it's a serious matter, exiled people, so I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38170	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for those who do not know, Miodrag Linta is an SNS MP and is president of the Alliance of Serbs from the region. He was born in Topusco, studied in Zagreb, and today he is a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, elected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins. If anyone knows what problems exiled Serbs from Croatia are facing, then Miodrag Lint knows that and that man participates in solving these people's life problems every day. Today, under circumstances, he is not present at the National Assembly session because he is in Banja Luka at an assembly dedicated to the upcoming elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina of Serbs left to live in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on a list. So Miodrag Linta participates in bringing together the Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the Serbian people today have a very difficult time living. So, with the mockery of talking about this man and his amendment, I think it's extremely incorrect. What I don't understand, I admit that I'm stupid, but I don't understand how it's possible to take a position that the amendment to Miodrag Linte has nothing to do with what this law regulates, as if avoiding and exiled or internally displaced persons can't be users of financial services remotely. Well, of course I can. Some of these people receive pensions, some receive adequate social benefits, and how they deal with banks and other financial institutions, some are in the process of resolving their pensions in Croatia, some in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and how they are users of financial services at a distance and how this law meets them and facilitates their problems. As for these people who have escaped, who live in Chačka, you are contradictory, Mrs. Radeta. By the way, you mentioned an appointment, you seem to have introduced a new calendar, says – all the solutions that will be made by April 31st. April has 30 days, as far as I know, except in some new calendar. (Verica Radeta: I said – 31 March and 1 April. Well, you said - April 31st, but it doesn't matter now. What's more important, you said two contradictory things. First you say -- somewhere in Chačka, living, refugees from Croatia, in heaven or on earth, they live in a building made by the Serbian government and moved into apartments, but it doesn't matter now, it sucks. Their problem has not been solved. So, wait, are these people living in heaven or on earth or living in a building made by the Serbian government and having their own apartments, where they live with their families? I really don't understand how far your personal animosities are towards Miodrag Linta and the SNS parliamentary group. So either a man has no place to live, and then he's said to live in heaven or on earth, or a man's problem is solved, someone built a building for him, and that's the Serbian government, a man and his family moved into that apartment, so he was solved one important life issue. We continue to address all other issues of people who have been expelled from Croatia, Republika Srpska, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But what I'm noticing is that whenever the amendment of Miodrag Linta appears on the agenda, it is mandatory that Mrs Radeta appears to say that this amendment is pointless, that it is stupid and that it has nothing to do with the bill. Of course there is. As we could all now turn to the amendments that you have submitted and prove or explain their indifference. I don't think a debate like that is going anywhere. So we don't have to face each other here on a personal basis. My dear Lint is not fond of me, so now I'm going to say that the amendment is stupid or that people live in heaven or on earth, even though the Serbian government built them a building and built apartments for them. We here need to expose our political concepts, so let's see whose political concept is better, i.e. some Serbian citizens in the election about it, but I cannot, as the president of the parliamentary group, allow Miodrag Lint to be placed on a pillar of shame at each session because someone personally likes or dislikes it. Personally, I think a man does a great job. He's doing a hard job. I meet him here every day in the hall of the National Assembly on the phone with our countrymen who have been expelled from Croatia, who have been expelled from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and who are trying actively to solve their problems. It's easy for us sitting here to talk about how Serbs who have been expelled have a hard time living and have a lot of problems. We all know that. Let's try to solve at least one of their life problems. Miodrag Linta does this every day, and you have found today, when a man in Banja Luka participates in an assembly under the auspices of the Republika Srpska government where a concert of Serbs in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be agreed on in elections, that we all go under one Serbian banner, that we all go to one list, as we did in Kosovo and Metohija, although many have no understanding and that policy is not understood, without going into two, three or five columns, because we are all plagued by the same torment and we are all in the same problems. To stand under a Serbian banner and follow a policy led by the Serbian government and led by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. This means that we respect the Dayton Peace Agreement, respect Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty and territorial integrity, but we are fighting for the rights of the Serb people who remained to live in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You, Mrs. Rade, know very well how difficult Serbs live in those municipalities and cities, which, according to Vuk Karadzic, are Serbian, Serbian clean ends of Mrkonjic town, Grahovo, Glamoc, these are areas where Serbs lived in more than 90% of the population by 1995 and these people live there today, but live under very difficult conditions. We are now trying as many people as we can to bring these people together, to add them together, not to go on two or three lists to the elections, but to go on a common list that will fight for the Serbian thing in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to touch the Dayton Peace Agreement and you say – the amendment to Miodrag Linte is pointless, he is stupid, what evasive and exiled persons have to do with financial services at a distance. I mean, the least you said was extremely politically incorrect. As it would be, now imagine that I remind you, you mentioned honor, face, reputation, no shame, and so on. Do I need to remind you that we were living witnesses and you and me and Jorgenka in 2008, God cursed whoever co-operated with Boris Tadic. It has not been three years and you are entering Tadic's board of directors. So, what about honor? What about the cheek? What about reputation? Never mind. Don't say that in 2008 and 2010/2011. In the years, many difficult things have happened in the Serbian parliament. I want things like this to never happen again. It was hard to say. They fell insults, we cursed each other. I think that Serbian parliamentaryism has at least improved so much that this kind of rhetoric simply doesn't deserve it anymore. Finally, if you want to put an end to the story of these mandates, thought you, me, or Jorgenka, of the nature of the mandate of anything, the Law on the National Assembly said its, the Constitutional Court said its. In that sense, we can keep our private opinions to ourselves. We can also publicly present them, and we can argue about it even though I don't want to participate, but I just want to remind you that in 2008 it was ten years ago and that Serbian citizens today face some new challenges, some new problems, and the SRS gap may be interesting for historians. It may be interesting for those who will someday deal with Serbia's political, newer political history, but I think the citizens of Serbia today are completely uninteresting.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38171	Thank you, my colleague, Martinovic. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38172	Martinovic, the concierge, if we're gonna joke. So, I never once mentioned the name My dear Linta, I was talking about the amendment. And now I'm saying that the amendment is absolutely pointless. As for the flats in Chačka. Yes, people have entered these apartments, they have no paper, no right to use, no right to ransom, and that is neither in heaven nor on earth, it is from today to tomorrow and so on. As for this job that Linta is doing today in Banja Luka, when it's already mentioned, well, not exactly Serbs from that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation, are going to be happy to respond or go out to those elections, they're simply not interested, because Serbs in those parts are going back somewhere, so as to try to do something there and so on. Mr. Martinovic certainly knows that the people who return to those parts are mostly older people, and with the moss they return to die there. Of course, there are some, he forgot, say, Martinović Drvar, who was the most Serbian city and didn't mention him, where some even tried to open some sawmills, to do something like that, but it didn't work either. But in one part, I was encouraged by Martinovic's discussion when he said that exiled evasive faces could use the services of this law. Does this mean, not quite to the end, Mr. Martinovic, does this mean that, say, my family, my family, my family, is wider, and not only my family, but many, can thanks to this law to secure their property, to get the right compensation for the property as it was when they left it, because this law is applied at international level? Of course, it's nothing, and you're just making a story that isn't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38173	Thank you. Right on line, MP Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38174	It's really hard to find an adequate answer when someone says at least these strange sentences, what we now have to deal with Serbs in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are mostly old people, who came there to die. Well, it's not like that. Well, that's all, and those old faces must have the right to vote and they should be cared for. And they should be politically represented at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, however difficult they are, no matter how old they are and no matter what municipality they live in. Thank you for reminding me of the Drava municipality. So these are just Serbian ends. They currently belong to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we respect that. But, Miodrag Linta, therefore, I repeat, once again, participates in a meeting where an agreement should be made with the Serbs themselves living in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that the upcoming elections will be held on a list. I don't see what's wrong with that, there's older people out there, but, God, there are young people. There are also young people who want to develop there and their private business, there are people who want to deal with agriculture, not just old people return to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are still young people, young people from Serbia return, see their perspective in the areas where their fathers and mothers were born. It's their land. It is formally-legally part of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but these are the people whose roots are from there. We are now making every effort to help these people. I don't know if you've been following Alexander Vukic's last visit...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38175	You're bringing an end to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38176	I finish my last visit to Aleksandra Vukica Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to your logic, we should write off Serbs living in the Federation of BiH, and the Serbian government helps rebuild the Serbian Orthodox Church in Mostar...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38177	I thank my colleague Martinovic. (Miss Radeta: Replica. You have no right to the replica of your colleague Radet. He didn't say anything offensive. (The Faith of Radeta: How is it not?) He got it all wrong. He understood perfectly. You can't understand... I can't figure out if he got it wrong, no. The Faith of Radeta: It doesn't really make sense. ) By amendment, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38178	We don't understand why this kind of discussion and always, Malten, it's one person, she's like a constant. There is no reason to single out our countrymen who have been exiled or expelled from the ex-Yugoslavia or from Kosovo and Metohija. Why would they even propose to outvote it in some amendment? We don't see any reason. Then it's a perfectly normal reaction of Serbian radicals, let's say, how long has this abuse of the situation and the position these people are in? They have the same rights, the same and the same rights as all of us who live in the Republic of Serbia, especially when it comes to protection, if it is the way they pay and if it is any financial transfers. And as for this demagogy, about Mr. Linta having this missionary role to unite all Serbs, don't go so far as to go. We Serbian radicals insist that Serbs unite, that two large parties from Republika Srpska and the Federation unite, go under one banner. There are clearly two large parties defined there, headed by one Mile Dodik, who ultimately personifies the government in Republika Srpska, while the other is the head of Bevedarica. And that's what we insist on, and that lobbying, believe me, it's personal to me, especially when it comes to this individual. I've seen a lot, I'm a living witness, we'd better invite those two political parties to join together and help them as much as we can in the Federation elections and elections in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38179	Thank you. By amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38180	We do so, except that some of us do so at the speaker of the National Assembly and others in the field. That's the difference. What I said and because of the lack of time, I failed to finish the sentence, if we stick to that logic, then we could say – and why is it that the Serbian government invests money in the restoration of the Orthodox church in Mostar, when there are few Serbs in Mostar anyway, and what few are mostly old people who have come to die? I don't see the logic of such a political thesis. So we help Serbs who have stayed to live in the Federation of BiH and politically and economically. We are politically helping them by trying to add them to one list and by fighting together for their rights in a situation that is rather delicate for them, and on the other hand, whether you admit it or not, but the Serbian government is extremely economically helping not only the Republic of Serbia, but also Serbs in the Federation of BiH. It is easy for us here in Belgrade to talk – these or them should be united, or Serbian countries should be united, but we should get the strength to go, as Alexander Vukic did, go to Zagreb or go among the Serbs who stayed to live in Kordun and be exposed to the media fire he was exposed to. It is not easy to go to Mostar today and say -- the Serbian government will help rebuild the Orthodox Church in Mostar and the government of Serbia will financially help the operation of the Zahumsko-Herzegovakia diocese. It's not that simple. All this would not be possible and I would especially like to stress that, if the economic and fiscal and monetary policies led by the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, and the government of Serbia and the NBS were not successful. So, with the fact that these three state authorities, we have come into a situation not only to economically and financially consolidate the Republic of Serbia, but that we can also financially help the Republic of Serbia, which is of strategic importance to the Serbian people, but we can also financially help Serbs who have stayed in Croatia and Serbs who have stayed to live in the Federation of BiH and encourage them to return to their centuries-old hearths. This is how one wise, responsible national policy is conducted, not hitting the Talambasses, not by talking about what our ultimate goal is, we want this or that, but a step by step, a millimeter by millimeter, to move in resolving the Serbian national issue, we are doing it through the economy today, because there is no other way. We are only economic measures, fiscal policy measures, monetary policy measures, able to make life easier for Serbs in both Croatia and the Serbs in the Federation of BiH and to further strengthen the delicate position of Republika Srpska anyway. There are no other ways, at this point, to fight for the Serbian national issue. It does, but then it means the end of the Serbian people, then it means entering something that we Serbs can't win at the moment. We can win the economy and thanks to good economic policy, we have stabilised our country and we are able to help both Serbs in the region and Serbs in Croatia and the Serbs in BiH. If a policy had been conducted until 2012, we couldn't help ourselves. They would go bankrupt, Serbia would disappear economically as a state. We are today in a position to help our people who have remained to live outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. I do not think that the role of Miodrag Linte in this is crucial and that he is some missionary, as some say both the Messiah and the Savior, I have not used such words, but that man fights every day to solve the life problems of Serbs from the Croatian and Serbian Federation of BiH, he does. He does it here in the National Assembly, but he does it when he leaves the National Assembly. He has problems with the refugees and exiled Serbs living for 24 hours and is one of the few MPs who do so, and only he knows how hard it is to work, where you have huge obstructions in solving the life problems of Serbs and in Croatia, as you have huge obstructions in solving the life problems of Serbs living in the Federation of BiH. It's easy to disqualify a man on a personal basis now, he's one or the other, but let's try any of us to take part in solving at least one persecuted Serb problem, no matter where he's being banished, so you'll see how difficult it is. Miodrag Linti is only relieved that he can come to Vojnic now, he can come to Banja Luka, he can come to Mostar and say, I am an MP in the National Assembly of Serbia, who is economically strong, brothers and sisters, and who can help you build new houses, build new stables, build new farms, model your fields, rebuild your churches, restore your schools, restore your kindergartens, allow you to be born on your centuries-old hearths. There, it's the role of My Lady Linta and it's the role of all of us. That is why the amendment of Miodrag Linte has essentially had to do with the bill that Mrs Tabakovic explained here. Without strong economic policy, without economically strong Serbia, we could not do anything about the exiled Serbs from Croatia and expelled Serbs from BiH, nor could we financially and economically help the Serbs who stayed behind to live on KIM. In the economic sense that we were in 2012, we couldn't do anything, but the country that we are today, the economic giants in the Balkans, we can do it. Whose credit is that? Aleksandra Vukic, SNS and, of course, Governor Jorvanka Tabaković, who leads a very wise, smart, balanced monetary policy, which has managed for six years to defend our national currency as it has not been defended since the time of George Wyfert and Finance Minister Lazar Pachu. For six years, the NBS has been on the bumper of a strong dinar. Had it not been for that policy, the big question is what would have happened to the Serbian economy at all. And on helping the Serbs through Drina and Sava, we could only dream.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38181	By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38182	After all these commendable words about this amendment, I just expected him to say that the MPs of the government would vote for this amendment. Of course not, but it's part of the demagogue story, like all the things we've been listening to here. Never did anyone from the SRS say anything bad or negative for co-operation with Republika Srpska, to help Republika Srpska. On the contrary, it is our political programme and it is nice that you accept it and that you are helping Republika Srpska. We Serbian radicals have a party in Republika Srpska, a parliamentary party, we have in almost all council municipalities, we participate in many municipalities, and we thus assist Serbs in Republika Srpska. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, even from that earlier replica, that the Constitutional Court said the mandate belonged to the MP, Martinovic now says it is a personal opinion, and I don't think so. He once claimed as professor of law school that the decision was unconstitutional, regardless of what the Constitutional Court had brought, so in 26.3.2012, he did not say so long ago, that there was no co-operation with those who stole the mandates of the SRS. There are many more such statements, but we do not allow Martinovic, or anyone else, to try to tell the public through his debate that we Serbian radicals have said something we did not say. None of us said we shouldn't worry about the Serbs who went back to their hearths because they were old, but we said they came back to die there. No one said they shouldn't be helped. They were supposed to be helped here, given the right compensation, to apply the law that I first reported here, so that these people and here have something to eat, not only to help when they go there. And they certainly need help here and there.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38183	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38184	I said the subject of the term of office was long ago absorbed, and I'm really not going to look back on it. But something else. We have here a conflict of two political concepts. We want Serbs to return to their centuries-old hearths. We want to strengthen them economically in this regard. And as far as I understand you, you'd like all the exiled Serbs to live here in Belgrade and all of us Serbs to get together here in Belgrade and to leave us at the end... (Miss Radeta: Who mentioned this?) What are you banging? This is rude. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38185	Radeta's knees, please let your colleague finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38186	So our policy is for people to return to both Kordun and Lika and Bani and Northern Dalmatia and return to the Bosnian province and return to Hercegovina, but people cannot return unless they have the economic assistance of the Serbian government. You say - it's our program. Great, but while it's written at the level of the program, it's our operational policy. These Serbs could, in addition to your programme, live outside their hearth for another thousand years if it were not for a successful economic policy that has been led back several years in Serbia. Great if it says so in your program, I have nothing against it, but one thing is what it says in the programme, and the other is the active solving of the life problems of Serbs from Croatia and Serbs from the Federation of BiH. So, it is the Serbian government that is at this point a guarantee of the human rights of the exiled Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38187	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38188	She is actively doing it, but not only are we defending the rights of Serbs from Belgrade, we are going to the field, we are going to the place, both in Zagreb and Vojić and in Banja Luka and in Mostar, which is not a bit simple and it is not an easy job. Do you think it was easy for Miodrag Linti to appear in Vojnic and Krnjak as a national MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Somebody try that on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38189	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38190	Basically, of course we're different and we're politically different and it's good that we are. What you're saying is that the Serbian government is guaranteed to Serbs living outside Serbia's territory, so we see, little or no, some Serb gets arrested on the territory of Republika Srpska. So much for how guaranteed you are. You don't even have those lists that they're throwing out every minute with some new names. Yes, our policy is different from yours so much that we wouldn't think of kissing, wearing flowers and working with the Ustasha Croatian state until as long as the territory of Republika Srpska is occupied. It's a strategic battle. You can say it can take as many years, but what you think you're doing is helping the Serbs who live there turn them into numbers. Say how many Serbs there must, say, in Zagreb, how many Serbs had to be baptized, so that they could cataclysm and change their faith so that they could survive there. So people who live there know best how they live. No one can know, say, better than a dozen Serbs in Livno living there among Ustashas and that there is no way anyone can ever come back. They also know people who live in previously pure Serbian places, unlike Livna, who, for example, have no living conditions there either. I repeat, we support every aid to Republika Srpska, as far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, but no one's house was built to help, no one got a job. There are other infrastructure things being done, and let's, it's okay to do it, but don't fool the people into doing something you don't do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38191	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38192	I understand that someone does not support the Serbian government's policy, that someone does not support SNS policy, but to say that thanks to the funds of the Serbian government, no Serb in Croatia and no Serb in the Federation of BiH has made the house one notorous untruth. (The Faith of Radeta: How much, exactly?) Don't be nervous. You should be happy and happy, you've become the new deputy president of the parliamentary group, I don't see why you're so nervous. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38193	Please, colleagues of Radeta, allow your colleague Martinovic to finish. Excuse me, colleague Martinovic, ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38194	So, only one who does not want to see it, he does not see how much the Serbian government is helping Serbs in Croatia and Serbs in BiH. Do people of Serbian nationality in Zagreb and Livno have difficulty living? They're hard to live for. Are they exposed to any kind of pressure? They did. Who are they looking at? They're looking at the government of Serbia, looking at Alexander Vukic, whether you like it or not. You're talking numbers, so I think the election results tell you the most and the best in which the expelled Serbs from Croatia and BiH have the most confidence. You live in Zemun, Mrs. Radeta. Where did the SNS get the most votes? On Busi, in Ugrinovci, in the Blue Horizons, right where the exiled Serbs from Croatia live. So they trust Alexander Wolfie, they trust the SNS, whether you like it or not. Look at this, up until a few years ago, no one thought to mark August 5th as the day of the exorcism of Serbs in the crime action "Storm". It was the first time that Alexander Wolfie started doing it. Do you think the exiled Serbs from Croatia don't see it? Aren't they aware of those facts? Who is it that every August 5th reminds Croatia and the whole world of a tragic event in Serbian history? Alexander Wolfie. He is the one who every August 5th in front of the whole world has the courage to say there has been a crime against a nation, people have been expelled from their centuries-old hearths, we ask that these centuries-old hearths return, and not only to seek, but to help them return both politically and economically.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38195	Thank you. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. He mentioned that you live in Zemun. Is that offensive? (The Belief of Radeta: Perhaps it is.) It's not. Still, it's not. Since I see where it's going, in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a break. I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] We'll continue with further work. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38197	Perhaps someone thinks that Serbian radicals can freeze Serbs from Busi, Ugrinovacs, the Blue Horizont, the Grmovac, the works of Batajnica and other areas where they settled when they were running from the Ustasha knife just because they voted for someone else in a higher percentage than for the Serbian Radical Party. You know, these fellow Americans, one day, under the influence of propaganda, under the influence of false promises, under the influence of television, can vote for LDP. Nor would it diminish our love for them, nor would our pride that, thanks to the SRS programme and the rational policy of our President Vojislav Seselj, we formed these settlements, allowed these people to reach the roof over their heads, and let them vote on their conscience. They are our favorite part of the Serbian state and our favorite part of the Zemun municipality, regardless of who they vote on. And we're proud of them and we're proud of our politics and those settlements that we've formed in the Buses, the Blue Horizon, the Ugrinovians, the shrubs, and we'll never get mad at these people. You're trying to distract us for free -- they voted for this, they voted for that one, so they're living people, they can make mistakes too.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38198	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38199	Well, here's to this whole debate, apparently SNS representatives keep knocking on the open door. We, the Serbian Radicals, as a political party, responsible political party, state-of-the-art, support the President of the Republic of Serbia to endure all these pressures on Kosovo and Metohija, and I see no reason why we would bid on me who is the greater patriot. There's no reason for that. As for the policy Lint's policies, I can help you, dear colleagues. At the first constitutive session of the Diaspora Committee...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38200	That amendment was a colleague. Now it's about my colleague Becic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38201	Take it easy. Only you calmly, Mr. Arsic, will all come into place.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38202	I'm calm, as long as you don't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38203	It's just about the first member, the amendment to the first member. When the chairman of the committee was Kostic of the Dvori Movement, he presented his programme. We from the SRS were against the programme of who is Ljotic's follower, and Linta and SNS representatives supported the programme when it comes to diaspora. What kind of program is that, believe me, I don't know the details, but I can think what Ljotic thinks about it. Now you want to show one person in two characters. He can't. It is either for a programme proposed by Kostic or now represents the interests of the Serb people in the diaspora. As for the support of every Serb you have an open door with us. We will support you in that policy. Go ahead. Hold on to Kosovo and Metohija. Don't give in to pressure. The SRS will never enter any fierce controversy with you. We can talk about this economically, but trust me, and you know it depends more on the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund than on those who are more, by the way, in the puppet theater of the main role.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38204	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vlahović, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38205	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic, you have answered all questions, suggestions, criticisms from our fellow opposition. The main objection of our fellow opposition to the proposals, all the bill's proposals are loans included in the Swiss francs. And we all know that we're not the ones who decide which credit we're going to take, in which bank, in which currency and not the NBS decides, but ourselves. From that I can commend that these bill proposals are excellent. You have also proudly responded to the insult of fellow opposition who has long since been a gentleman and gentleman. We are always going back to gender equality and we are talking about not losing the most beautiful qualities that a woman has, and that's that a woman always is and remains a gentler sex, and that men stay in that fight and be gentlemen. My dear Governor, they have long lost that quality. They are not happy that the money is the best currency in the world in the past year and that such monetary policy is being conducted and that it is a dinar from 2012 to 2018 at the same level. This bill, which I have submitted to the amendment, will affect economic growth, and my amendments are very much related to economic growth. With the joint work of our President Alexander Vukic, the Government and the NBS, we have positive reports from all relevant institutions of the world to economic growth starting with the World Bank, the IMF, the European Commission and the Fiscal Council. The World Bank predicts that economic growth will be 3% in 2018, 3.5% in 2019 and 4% in 2020. We will continue to work to keep the results achieved as our country is on an accelerated path of growth and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38206	Thank you. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janošević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38207	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, what is the key to our stability and what regulates monetary policy in Serbia, is certainly the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia is responsible for preserving the value of the dinars and what provides stability is certainly planning and predicting the level of inflation, as well as a healthy financial system. The Act on the Protection of Users of Financial Contracts in Remote Contracts provides full support to financial services users, therefore, to bank users, insurance companies, but also to voluntary pension funds. The main objectives of the adoption of this law are to improve the rights of users of financial services. In what sense? By editing the way financial service providers are advertised and how they offer their financial services on the Internet, as well as modern types of communication. We are thus affecting the modernisation of the financial market in the Republic of Serbia in order to make business more complete, better quality and to make it easier for all market users to operate. In this way we influence the greater regularity of our market, attracting foreign investors, because business will be faster and safer, and it will affect and improve the work and development of the economy in many ways. Accordingly, I submit this amendment which will further define and allow for the definition of the subject matter of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38208	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Komlenski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38209	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the law on the protection of users of financial services when negotiated remotely is a law that covers a very wide range of diapazon users. I will not say that it leads to the treatment of all Serbian citizens, but all those who use certain or any kind of financial services, it simply comes under the protection of this law. Why do I say under the protection and under the hat of this law? Because this law essentially equidistant the conditions under which any citizen of the Republic of Serbia may have adequate and proper protection against possible manipulations and abuses by financial service providers. For this reason, I have submitted an amendment wanting to draw one line that the law already has, which is a trait of social equality, and I think that the adoption of such an amendment and its inclusion in Article 1 would make it much easier to apply Articles 13, 15, 17, 19 and 21 of this law. Why these members? When we say that, we're talking about the right to terminate a long-distance contract. It is Article 21 that speaks of the burden of proof in the event of a dispute, of whose responsibility and of who must prove that he is right, if I can say so in a folk way, in order to make it easier for the citizens to understand. In the case of any dispute, it means that the service user is not obliged to prove something, but is obliged to prove it by the service provider, that he has fulfilled all the formal legal conditions prescribed by this law, that the burden and liability of non-compliance with the contractual obligations would be on the service user. I think it is very important and is of great importance to the safety of users of services, because not all Serbian citizens are sufficiently educated to be able to engage in financial transactions and conclude a distance contract without any reservation. This simply surrounds a legislative system and I am very glad that you recognized this kind of problem. This will make financial services users, above all, much more protected than ever before. By adopting and installing such an amendment or something like that, it would only get even more weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38210	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Mother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38211	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed governor with my associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. This member of the law regulates the subject matter of this law, and the amendment I have submitted should further link the subject matter to the efficiency of local self-government. Since the law states that bank service providers, insurance companies, voluntary pension fund management companies, leasers, investment companies and others, and that the same law also provides that users of natural persons using these services are entrepreneurs and farmers who all have exposures, or branches in local environments, it is concluded that the efficiency of local self-government will certainly be increased, speeding up, ensuring and improving contacts between those entities. Since this law has for the first time fully provided protection to financial services users and the rights of financial services users have been comprehensively regulated, I call on Members to support both the law and this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38212	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Compirović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38213	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Governor with fellow Members, the MPs, we have before us a set of draft laws prepared by the NBS, bearing in mind the need to further improve domestic legislation in the field of banking, payment services and protection of payment service users. The passing of modern laws, which follow the trends of the promotion of society and the time in which we live, technological development and the growing importance of electronic business in modern life, have contributed to the development of new ways of financial services, above all, to their remote provision. One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the promotion and use of information technologies in all areas of society, in the economy, in the state administration and in the areas of financial services, which will contribute to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, as well as to a distance contract. The main objectives of the adoption of this law are to improve the rights of users of financial services, additional protection of these users, as well as the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU law. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the set of these financial laws in the voting day, as well as the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in the context of a distance contract, which is why I propose an amendment in Article 1(2). This law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving the judiciary. Our president managed to achieve stability and lay strong foundations for our society, because without stability, political, economic and regional, there would be no foreign and domestic investment that money invests in our country. The number of employees is growing, only in the last three years we have a number of 186,000 and over a million employees in the private sector, all thanks to the stability we have achieved and which we manage to preserve. The stabilised currency and low inflation, which, besides the Serbian government and more than it is, is due to the NBS and its governor, Mrs Tabakovic, means that families across Serbia can plan their monthly and annual budget, they can think about the future and this is a huge change in the way people live today, and how they used to live, and all this thanks to the stability and our president who, by his policy, strengthens our country and leads us to a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38214	Thank you. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Milojevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38215	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Ms Tabaković, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 1. I propose adding the 2nd position -- this law provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. With this amendment, we introduce private sector improvement as one of the subjects of this law. For years, the Republic of Serbia has been working backwards to raise standards, protect users of financial services, but in this sense special attention is being paid to this area. Since we are witnessing overall advances in the field of technology and the increasing development of electronic business, it is clear that the National Assembly, as a legislator, must recognise this trend and move forward with life opportunities. When we talk about modern flows, of course the private sector is one of the main actors of this development, as well as the driver. We are all aware of the progress Serbia has made under the leadership of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS in all areas of economic and social development. That is why we must support all efforts made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in terms of fiscal policy, and this is only one of the many laws that the Government has proposed, and this is supported by this House, which is aimed at developing digitalisation and facilitating the business of all citizens. The local self-government of the Arangelovac municipality, also through numerous examples, is trying to step up with modern currents and contribute to faster and more efficient implementation of the system. In a later presentation, I will look back and talk more about all the achievements and reliefs that this law makes for users of electronic business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38216	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38217	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts and it reads - this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. The bill continued to work on the protection of financial services when negotiating remotely. So far, protection has been provided through the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, especially through the Institute, which provided for the mandatory provision of information at the pre-contractual stage. However, social and business flows are subject to change. In the first place, I think of the rapid development of the Internet and other information-technological means and their increasingly massive use. It is also important to highlight the growing importance and use of electronic business. This requires further protection of users using information technologies when negotiating the widest spectrum of financial services, and legislation must go into step with new liquids and meet the needs of additional protection. This is precisely achieved by the Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which in a comprehensive way regulates the rights of users who negotiate financial services through modern information technologies. The draft law provides for additional protection of the rights and interests of users of such a way of bargaining, thus ensuring unequivocally greater legal certainty. In the end, I would point out that this proposal for a law is harmonising domestic legislation with EU law, which is also an obligation that comes from the EU accession process. With all these facts in mind, the proposal for this law secures the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and contributes to the efficiency of judicial institutions. However, I believe that this must be explicitly highlighted in the first article of the bill, which is precisely achieved by the amendment that I am submitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38218	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliament MP Jovan Palalic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Palalych, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38219	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Governor Tabakovic, in some way with this very important set of financial laws, you are rounding this first successful term of six years, headed by the NBS, in a very good way, proposing an extremely important set of these financial laws. You have rightly stated in your discussion that one of the most important conditions of monetary and successful fiscal stability and macroeconomic stability is political stability, which is ensured through an active and quality policy led by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It was precisely this stability that allowed other important institutions to operate without which it would certainly not be possible to increase the demand for services provided through this law. I'm here to point out exactly the judicial institutions, which, just before 2012, were the reason why we had a huge mistrust in the banking system. The destroyed judiciary, the destroyed judicial system and mistrust have contributed to our banking system being in a very difficult situation. I want to highlight here the quality work of those institutions, both in the judiciary and in the police, concerning the fight against high-tech crime. A good law relating to the organisation and operation of state authorities in the fight against high-tech crime, good prosecution organisations, the existence of a special prosecution to combat high-tech crime, special services in police, a large number of cases solved, increase the security and protection of users of these services, and by increasing the security and protection of services that citizens are seeking, thus increasing and expanding the need for these services. That only confirms, which is a greater number of colleagues, and you, in your discussion, said that the prose and co-operation of all institutions is necessary in order to raise the quality of the banking system and the use of these institutions. In any case, it is important to point out that the co-operation of all state institutions is necessary in any case, to contribute to both political stability and labour guarantee and the National Bank. I believe that the new mandate, which will certainly follow very quickly, will raise to a much higher level the work of the National Bank of Serbia and increase citizens' confidence in all our financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38220	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bagby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38221	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Governor with his associates, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, with the aim of further defining the subject matter of this law, to clarify to colleagues from the former Dossian authorities that the proposed law does not apply to their favorite political discipline – a distance vote. We all probably still remember that in December 2001, just a year after the Petoctobar coup, when by force, beatings, robbery and arson were introduced to Serbia, so-called. Democracy, in the Serbian Parliament, voted on the draft labour law, which was adopted in principle with a single vote more than the required majority, with the voice of Borislav Novakovic, a former member of the Democratic Party, who is currently a close associate of Vuk Jeremic. Borislav Novakovic, who is also known to the general public for being sentenced to three and a half years in prison for abuse of office and damages of over fivem euros, caused by the New Sad city budget during the construction of the Boulevard of Europe, as he flew to Thessaloniki for a conference two days before holding a vote on the Law on Labour in the Republic of Thessaloniki at the time of the vote. For who knows which time they were caught in fraud and illicit actions, seeing that instead of MP Novakovic's voice the assistant minister for work, it did not bother the head of the DOS MP's club Cedomir Jovanovic to go public, lying that Novakovic flew to Belgrade that day from Thessaloniki, that at 13 hours and 10 minutes he voted and immediately flew back to Greece, where he had already been seen at a press conference at 15 hours and 30 minutes. Cedomir Jovanovic lied as many times before and after, not knowing that he had responded at any time, on any plane, or whether he had returned to Thessaloniki, reportedly on a regular or extraordinary flight to Thessaloniki, aware that Borislav Novakovic was not in the Assembly that day, aware that there were no regular flights to Athens and Thessaloniki from Belgrade on that day, and that no extraordinary government or private flight was reported in flight control. Nothing mattered to cover up dirty criminal leads. The Dossian fraud specialists again, two years later, in July 2003, during the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia, abused more than 11 MPs of the DOS group, instead of voting in their absence. And this time, following the discovery of fraud and the fact that famous actress Neda Arneric was not in the Assembly at the time of the vote, again was the on-call doss manipulator, this time depicted in the image of Bojan Pajtic, a miracle, again when the Democratic Party... (President: Time, colleague of the Bag. )......................................................................................................... who was president of the DOS parliamentary group at the time. Without a hint of shame and shame, Bojan Pajtic waved to reporters some papers that were supposed to look like Bodrum-Istanbul's taxi bill and an Istanbul-Belgrade plane ticket, as the crown proof that Neda Arneric had suspended her vacation at the Turkish resort of Bodrum to vote in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38222	Thank you, bag buddy. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Richtinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38223	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed Governor of the National Bank with his associates, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides for the obligation of the banks to submit, at least once a year without compensation, a report on all fees paid for payment account-holder services related to his account. I believe that the delivery of the report to the payment account owner should be more frequent, especially in view of the intention to increase the number of secure transactions, as well as other services offered by banks to payment account owners. This increases the possibility that the bank will charge various fees and fees, so it would be unfair for the payer to always, except in that case, if the bank is obliged to deliver a free copy. At times when electronic communication is readily available and when banks have the opportunity to send an e-mail to the account holder's address, practically cost-free, I believe that banks should have the obligation to supply to payment account holders copies in electronic form once a month, at no cost, and at the justified request of the account holder and more often. A legitimate claim would be a fundamental doubt that the bank has charged a fee or commission against the contract in the form of a fee or commission on which the payment account holder could object to the bank or possibly the NBS, since it does not make sense that the payment account holder should pay a copy on the basis of which it should determine where the right is injured, i.e. that a fee or commission is unlawfully paid to him. In this way, another protection would be given to payment account holders. After the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services, which among other things is prescribed and the obligation of the banks to make a transparent and unilateral statement of all fees and fees charged to the users of banking services, these include the most significant account holders who would thus have monthly information on fees and commissions paid. In addition, the new technologies to which banks are called, which are used to increase profits, and rarely to reduce costs, through a reduction in the number of jobs in the banking sector, should thus be directed towards the citizen, the payment account holder, who, through e-mail every month, would know at no cost what happens to his money. I believe that the payment of this service, even though it was done via e-mail, would be completely unjust and unfair. This would eventually allow the account holder to be informed precisely, in detail and in time, because it would exclude the possibility that the bank would only submit the report once a year or use this type of communications to collect the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38224	The word has a governor, Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38225	I'm just going to tell you that such a request just doesn't have to be made, because it's already being implemented through existing legal solutions. Once a month, the bank delivers to the user absolutely all transactions with all fees individually, and this year's mandatory means the cumulativeity of all transactions and the fees the bank needs to collect and show him how much the transaction has charged the costs. Why do we do it once a year cumulatively like this? In order for the user to compare how much it costs, what services he wants to perform in this way, maybe change the bank if one individual is expensive to him, but generally and finally monthly gets the user's report with all due fees and all payment transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38226	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38227	I thank the chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, I have submitted this amendment to Article 1 of this law because I believe that the constant improvement of financial resources must be part of daily activities in the financial sector always and at all times. We are also bound by the disturbances in the money and capital market that we had before 2012, the double-digit inflation that ate our businesses and consumption, the fact that we had a galloping public debt, as well as the fact that Serbia was ahead of our bankruptcy. During the previous six years, during your term, Mrs Tabakovic, the National Bank of Serbia has achieved and maintained price and financial stability, fulfilling your legal powers, as well as creating a more stable business environment with lower borrowing costs, a greater available income, a more sustainable acceleration of economic growth, a significantly lower risk premium, as well as repairing the country's credit rating. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the results achieved by your team in these six years have been achieved at a rather uncertain moment, where, above all, there should have been increased caution in making decisions and implementing measures. That's what you did, and Serbia has been in continuity for five years in a group of countries that are in a stable way achieving low predictable inflation. But, the amendment I have submitted, I have failed to endure because of these results from you and your team, because it also proves that you are the first governor since 1992 to hold a full term. I have submitted the amendment because of some future generations, because of some future management, because I believe that this amendment should stand in law for financial discipline to be taken care of at all times and in every place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38228	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38229	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, honourable Governor Tabakovic and his associates, respected MPs, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my satisfaction with the quality of all the draft laws laid down in this set of laws tabled by the NBS, as well as by the law proposed by the Serbian government. I wouldn't change anything about it. However, on this occasion, I would like to express my gratitude to the governor of the NBS, Mrs. Jorgovanka Tabakovic, for the sacrificed and dedicated work and for all the successes that the NBS has achieved in the previous six years. Thank you for being independent in your work and for having been more independent than ever before, for working in the interest of everyone and for not being dependent on any political party or individual or group interest, which has shown that there is no one who will make you print money or spend foreign reserves. I also thank you for denying by your work and results the evil hunches of members of the yellow party, who, in 2012, when you were elected governor of the National Bank, spoke, quote, that the ruling click decided to put under its control one of the most important institutions in the country, describing your choice as, again, quoting: "Legal violence, anti-European move and a huge step backwards". Thank you for denying them and for providing monetary stability, for caring for price stability and for making sure that inflation is not driven by an irresponsible relationship to the course, or by allowing monopolies to affect inflation. Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic, which no longer has to be seen with suspense in the course list and wonders how much it must be set aside to settle the obligations indexed in euro, which citizens no longer fear that high inflation will reduce their real value of earnings and pensions and that businesses can finally plan their business. Finally, thank you for your reliable support for Alexander Vukic in preserving Serbia's stability and thus contributing, among other things, to the improvement of the defence system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38230	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) My fellow Prince, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38231	I thank the chairman. Dear Governor of the National Bank with associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, during the term of office of Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic, the NBS achieved and maintained the financial stability of our country. Thus, this has affected the acceleration of the country's economic growth, repairing our country's credit rating, then reducing inflation, bringing new investments, as well as developing infrastructure in Serbia. Of course, the results of fiscal policy in Serbia are so evident and unrelenting, there are pointless attacks from the opposition's ranks. Such a way of functioning an orderly state is absolutely unknown to them. Now that the citizens of Serbia have also sent opposition to political history, they can no longer be scattered with the people's money, but the habit of the debauchery life that they have lived has forced them to find other sources of funding from people who don't want our country well above all. There's no need to make any big analysis that's going on here. All that human and moral waste gathered a few days ago in the Sapac meeting, where, by the dictatorship of the financier, it was once more necessary to attack, defile and muddy his country. Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, the unhappy Stamatovic from Cajetina and Paunovic from Paracin, also Borko Stefanovic and Janko Veselinovic, who in the absence of decorations imitated two fics and the mayor of Sapca, Nebojsa Zelenovic, who grabs big steps towards this team through the abuse of the city budget of the town of Šapac. Of course, everything with Dusan Petrovic's conductor bat that, as always, does everything from the shadows, so he wasn't in the mood to go in front of the cameras, but they say he was standing at the door so that someone wouldn't run away from this rally. A team like this, supported by financials who do not want Serbia well, tries everywhere and at every step to destabilise our country primarily to come to power and as once devastated Serbia's finances. Of course, it will not go with them, and most importantly, Serbian citizens have confirmed this several times and said convincingly what they think of this traveling family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38232	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Olivera Pesic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38233	Thank you. Dear Governor Tabakovic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I have submitted is heading towards increasing the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on social equality with this law. Simply put, the bill protects the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they negotiate financial services, and when they are not physically present, so via the Internet, e-mail, mail, telephone or fax. Therefore, the law introduces special protection for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are physically not present at the time of the conclusion of the contract. The law defines that financial institutions are obliged to deliver clear and accurate information at the pre-contractual stage, while precisely defining what all information on the financial service must contain, which is the exact description of the service, any compensation, warnings if there are other additional compensations, means that everything which is subsequently charged to the beneficiary of the financial service. Also, the law defines exactly what all information on a distance contract should contain. This is all information on the rights of the user to give up the contract, on the deadline for giving up, on the consequences of giving up, on the instructions for giving up the contract. Also, the law defines what all information on dispute resolution should contain. These are the rights of the user to object, as well as an explanation of how and how this objection is submitted. The lack of accurate and clear information by financial institutions is the biggest problem that discourages citizens of the Republic of Serbia to use massively the means of modern communication, and precisely by applying this law, Serbian citizens will be encouraged to feel safer and to decide on the use of modern means of communication, which will certainly lead to the digitisation of the financial sector, and the digitalisation of the financial sector will certainly contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the application of this law will allow competition to be created on the financial market, and this will mean for the citizens of Serbia a better quality and a lower price of service, thus achieving social equality, and of course the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia and this amendment that I have submitted is going in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38234	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38235	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs Tabakovic, with associates, ladies and gentlemen, is defined by Article 1 of the proposed law, and the rights of users of financial services and their achievement and protection have been particularly absorbed. In this context, I point out that one of the basic rights of users of financial services is the right to inform. The conclusion of the contract by means of remote communication shall not lead to incomplete or restrictive informing of users. In this respect, the service provider, which may be a bank, insurance company, a pension fund management company, a leaser, a payment institution, an investment company, a trader and other legal and natural persons, shall be obliged to provide the user with valid information about the service provider, the financial service and how to resolve any disputes within a reasonable period prior to the conclusion of the contract. All information representing the essential elements of the contract must be clear, easily understandable and appropriate to the use of remote communication. In doing so, the service provider is obliged to conduct himself in a secure manner when providing information, with the attention of a good businessman and in accordance with good business practices, without misleading the user at any time in connection with the provision of financial services. Also, one of the basic rights of users of services is the right to withdraw from a distance contract. Namely, the right to withdraw from the contract is one of the basic consumer protection measures and is considered one of the most important flows of European consumer law. The consumer has the right to reconsider his will, to change his mind, is not obliged to explain the reason for his resignation and, if he exercises his right, it is considered that the contract is not even concluded. In this respect, legal solutions are also proposed where it is assumed that the user has the right to give up the contract at a distance within 14 days of the date of conclusion of the contract, without giving up the reason for withdrawal, with the fact that an exceptional user may give up the contract within 30 days, if it is a contract subject to life insurance, i.e. with regard to voluntary pension funds. Of course, there are certain types of contracts where the user does not have the right to give up, and these are distance contracts subject to a financial service whose price depends on the movement on the financial market, on the distance of insurance on a journey or on a distance contract for other short-term insurance for 30 days, a distance contract with which the parties, on the express request of the user, have fulfilled their obligations before the deadline for the use of the right to give up and the contract provided by the mortgage. Taking into account these quality solutions of the proposed law, the SNS parliamentary group will certainly support the same in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38236	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38237	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to Article 1. The bill stresses the need for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development. I think he has his place, and I think he should be in this bill, precisely because of the general trend in the digitization of society, as one of the kind of modernisation. If we take into account the fact that the value of transactions carried out by online cards in 2017, which some of my colleagues have already talked about, that it is about 20 billion dinars, then it is clear that there is a need to introduce special protection for users who are not physically present at the time of providing information or conclusion of the contract, so, as counterpart Pesic just said, when it comes to using the Internet or mobile phones. It is this law that introduces this special protection for users of all financial institutions operating on our market. A positive impact through the wider availability of financial services and a greater choice between existing financial service providers on the market will be felt by all financial services users. What is certainly a great benefit, is that all these provisions further encourage the already present digitisation in the financial sector and encourage users to use these services more massively through modern means of communication with that additional protection. For all these reasons, I want to support this bill, and my amendment is completely compatible with the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38238	The National MP Branimir Rancic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Rancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38239	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Arsic, the Honorable Governor of the National Bank, Mrs. Tabakovic, the Honorable Gentlemen of the National Bank, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, which defines the subject matter of this law. It is prescribed that the Law regulates the rights of users of financial services when contracting financial services using means of communication at a distance, as well as the conditions and means of achieving and protecting those rights. This law continues the work of the National Bank of Serbia to improve the protection of users of financial services. The main paper adopted by this law is that protection is now adapted to the use of financial services through modern information and technology, such as Internet and mobile phones, and all in line with best international practice. Medicine requires a record of a large amount of data. Collecting and storing such a large amount of data is impossible without modern information technologies and therefore the medical information branch is one of the fastest-developed branches. The basics of this branch are standards that need to be applied to allow for the exchange and comparison of information and interoperability mechanisms between the system and the data protection system. For example, the new health fund information system will download the tax administration's data on paid contributions and automatically verify the health book. In this way, both the company and the worker can electronically check the actual state. It means that employers can verify the bookbook without going to the counter and that in this way it saves about 500,000 hours just for the economy, which has so far lost so much time on RFZO's counters. Employers will save around 1.500,000 euros in waiting and administrative procedures for the overa. So far, around 6,000,900 cards have been printed off, over 93% of what was planned, which means employers are paying their contributions. It's the right way to fight the gray economy. The distance agreement of financial services users allows access to the widest range of financial services available on the domestic financial market, regardless of the place of residence and how far away the best exposure is. In voting day, I would also ask fellow opposition doctors, if any, to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38240	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vukojičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38241	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected governor with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, was ahead of us with a set of laws proposed by the National Bank of Serbia, and I said in principle that all laws in the interests of citizens, in the interest of the economy, were in the interest of developing financial services and in the interest of the development of the whole country and its citizens, and thus also in order to improve the quality of life and standards of its citizens. I have submitted an amendment to a law relating to the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. First of all, I have to point out that in the very name of the law, his focus and his goal, in fact, was determined by the very name of the law. What's the point? Protection of users of financial services. Why is that the basic purpose of this law? So as to minimise the risk. The risk, of course, can never be ruled out absolutely, but this law risks the user of financial services to the minimum because he is not physically present in the use of distance services, the representative of the financial institution, or the financial institution, and thus the user is protected that he cannot come into a situation to choose a financial situation that will later regret or bring himself into a state of financial poverty, or in a situation that can negatively affect his quality of life. I must point out that the digitisation and use of modern telecommunications services is a strategic definition and government of Alexander Vukic, but also a strategic definition that she continued to implement by the government of Ana Brnabic. Open data, which are data that are suitable for computer processing and for exchange via the Internet, are data that contribute to both economic development and sustainable economic development. In the modern world, open data and their use are now referred to as new oil. I must also point out that this law is also in line with the National Action Plan for the reduction of the grey economy, because it is also about increasing the volume of security payments, and certainly one of the priorities of the SNS is to reduce the grey economy and legal business. In the end, I want to point out that when it comes to vulnerable groups, regardless of what the yellow enterprise is today in different aggregate states, and today they are absolutely not here, and their objections absolutely had no argument, nor were they based on reality, but only on personal insults, which is devastating, of course, for them. I would like to point out, in fact, that no monetary giving that relates to the most vulnerable categories of the population has been reduced nor have they been denied. Only adequate economic policy can provide adequate social protection for the country. The country's adequate economic policy and the foundations of economic policy was set by Aleksandar Vukic. Thus, the social protection function of the state will be better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38242	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Ivana Stojljković. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Stojljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38243	I thank the chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which defines the subject of the law and regulates the rights which the beneficiary of financial services uses by means of remote communication. I have proposed adding Article 2 which highlights the importance of this law, i.e. the application of the provisions of this law in the interests of citizens, and therefore also in the interest of reducing poverty in the Republic of Serbia. Like all proposed legal solutions that are now on the agenda, this law aims to improve financial business, financial markets and business conditions, as I have already said in the interest of citizens, but also in the interest of the economy. Specific changes relate to the reduction in operating costs by both payment cards and online trade, while providing additional protection for the users of these financial services. It should be noted once again because of citizens that this type of protection has existed before, but it has now been extended to new types of payments via the Internet and mobile phones. If we have in mind, and the already respected governor noted, that this kind of payment has reached its maximum by now, in 2017, and that it is now being measured by millions of users. It is clear also the importance of this law and new provisions both in terms of the protection of users and in terms of improving such a way of business. Thus, protection that has so far been applied only to citizens has been extended to both businessmen and entrepreneurs, that is to say, farmers. Therefore, the aim is to contribute to strengthening consumer confidence in the application of these forms of trade and e-commerce and mobile banking, because this way of business works to reduce costs as far as possible for the benefit of citizens, poverty reduction and, of course, on all these NBS results and how it works and your results are extraordinary. We congratulate you once again and wish you good luck in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38244	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Todorovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38245	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, governor of the NBS, respected NBS associates, co-workers and fellow MPs, Serbia is firmly on the European path. Serbia is a stable country in both political and economic terms. Serbia is a disciplined country that protects its interests takes care of its citizens. Serbia is a respected and respected country in the world. Serbia is fulfilling its international obligations, harmonising its legislation with EU legislation and this context are also the proposed laws we are discussing at this session. I have submitted amendments to the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts and I would like to point out that the benefits of this law in practice relate to users of financial services, natural and legal persons, including farmers and entrepreneurs, and in relation to the provision of these services via the Internet, mail, mail or other means of communication at a distance. The law will help speed up competition and strengthen and develop the financial market in the Republic of Serbia. The law allows wide application of means of communication at a distance and thus access to all potential clients on equal terms for all payment service providers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. More and more digitalisation in the financial sector has led to the need to introduce special protection for non-physical users at the time of supply of information or conclusion of the contract, in order to prevent unwanted events. In this way, users will be encouraged to use these services by means of modern means of communication. The law protects users from providing and charging services that are not required and enhances the rights of users of financial services. Financial service users will be informed and protected in the best possible way. Financial service providers are given an additional incentive to advertise remotely financial services in a reliable and predictable way and thus conclude contracts with users. Massive, let me say, using modern technologies daily in the field of providing financial services, financial institutions in the medium and longer term will benefit from less costs due to automated processes and smaller separations when it comes to paper documentation. Benefits therefore exist both for users and for service providers. In the end, Mrs Tabaković, you and your associates are all commended for the proposed laws, as well as for the impressive and powerful results of work so far. Keep it up, the citizens of Serbia are with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38246	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague named Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38247	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the first member of the law we are discussing today is committed to regulating the rights of users of financial services, I have submitted an amendment that further defines the proposal and subject matter of this law. As one of the priorities of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to improve and use information and communication technologies in all areas, especially in the area of economy and in the area of state administration, it is certain that the laws in the area of finance will make a significant contribution to improving the use of modern technologies and financial services. What is significant and what this law adopts is that the accent is placed not only on consumers, but also on businessmen, entrepreneurs, farmers, which means that these services will be available to all and under conditions that are appropriate to users. Of course, that directly means equal terms, equal chances for everyone. If we want to talk about even regional development, it is extremely important for our municipalities and for our cities that will have equal chances when it comes to long-distance co-operation. When it comes to the reforms that we have implemented so far and which accent has put exactly on an effective administration, on an efficient state apparatus, it is certain that much has been done in this area, starting from digitisation, to transferring parent books into electronic form, connecting the databases of the MUP, the National Employment Service, the PIO Fund. So these were all preconditions necessary to start the economy, to provide conditions for local development. This is very important because it took us to start and recover our economy that has stagnated for years. In addition to strengthening the confidence of financial services users, while providing additional protection and precision to all issues that may have been controversial, given that the same conditions are being made possible for all users, I believe that such a proposal relating to even regional development should find its place in the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38248	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Collegine Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38249	I thank the chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, with her associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, my amendment is going towards the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, just like the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have reached a high standard of protection for users of financial services, but the growing importance of electronic business affects the rapid development of new financial services, so there is a need to regulate the provision of remote financial services. The priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to improve the use of information and communication technologies in all areas, and if we take into account the economy and state administration, regulation of these issues in the field of financial services will indeed contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary in an unequivocal way to regulate the rights of users of financial services, ways of protecting them, but also to bring domestic legislation in line with EU law, which will do so. The amendment goes, among other things, towards strengthening the confidence of users in the application of modern bargaining techniques, such as Electronic and mobile banking. This provides users with a wide range of financial services that exist on the domestic market, with a potential cost reduction. Serbia follows modern trends, so this also applies to financial services and continues to work on improving such regulations, legislation that will adequately monitor real changes. The way financial services providers advertise and offer financial services to consumers via the Internet or other modern means of communication must be arranged. Citizens and business entities are more open to using more modern payment methods, which means that information technologies will be used more and more frequently in the future, as well as in terms of the use of financial services. Contracting financial services at a distance is certainly one way to improve and develop the financial market in the Republic of Serbia, and I think it is necessary to regulate the rights of users of financial services when negotiating such services by using means of communication at a distance, as well as ways to achieve these rights. This will undoubtedly affect the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38250	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38251	I thank the chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen, with the addition of this article to Article 2 which I have proposed further defines the subject of the proposed law as a contribution to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Realising financial stability thanks to the efforts of the government of Serbia and the NBS in continuity, several years back significant resources are being allocated to the construction of new and reconstruction of existing health facilities, i.e. for the purchase of medical equipment and investment maintenance in health institutions. In the first quarter of this year, about a billion and 750 million dinar medical institutions were invested in the purchase of modern and sophisticated equipment. In addition to the construction and equipment of the Nis Clinical Centre, which invested 50m euros, money has been provided for the construction of the most modern helipad in this facility, so this will be the second health facility in Serbia, which will have a space for landing helicopters. One of the strategic goals in the field of health is the restoration of the University Children's Clinic in Tirshova as well as the construction of a new Tirshova 2 hospital. The funds have been provided for a feasibility study, which is the first step in preparing for a new children's hospital. For the reconstruction of the hospital in Tirshovo, as well as for the purchase of state-of-the-art appliances, 7m euros have been invested, so this facility will operate according to world standards. At the same time, he currently specializes in paediatric and child surgery over 100 young doctors, which is a guarantee of the future of this institution. With the government of Serbia's responsibility and system policy, conditions are being created for new generations of doctors to contribute to the development of health care and thus to Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38252	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) colleague Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38253	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the first Article of the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in the distance, and with the intention of adding Article 2 or Article 2 in this article, we further define the subject of this law. Otherwise, the proposal for this law for the first time provides comprehensive protection to financial service users and comprehensively provides the rights of financial service users provided by banks, as well as financial leasers and traders, as well as the conditions and means of achieving and protecting those rights. General and technological development and the growing development of electronic business in modern life have also contributed to developing new ways of offering and advertising financial services, which has led to the need to further regulate the provision of financial services, which is in fact a proposal for this law. Otherwise, the government of the Republic of Serbia as one of the priorities of IT technology has defined in all areas as its organisation, both in the economy and in health care. Otherwise, the use of IT technology in health care is imposed as a real need, since efficient limited resources would be maintained, and our government, the government of the Republic of Serbia, is working to improve all areas, and so these good laws are evidence of that. In the day to vote, SNS MPs will support these good bill proposals and, of course, you in every respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38254	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Radičević's, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38255	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. My amendment aims to further define the law, as well as to put a special accent on industrialisation, as well as industrial production. Without creating a new value, it is not possible to survive one society and state as a whole. This former government did not want to understand, because it was more important to them how to further destroy the already failed industrial production with a clear goal of devalued businesses and thus to be redeemed by the Buddha for why, while taking into account only personal interests. They left behind a wasteland and thousands of workers, not only without a job, but without a profit, without a pension insurance payment, so the consequences of their authorities are visible today. This bill achieves two effects, and that it improves the work of banks by using information and communication technologies, with absolute protection of users of financial services. The second advantage adopted by this bill is to facilitate and speed up the use of financial services by both businessmen and individuals, which greatly contributes to easier business, with the security of financial services users at an extremely high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38256	Thank you. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Ljiljana Malušić submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38257	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed governor with her associates, over the past six years, thanks to you, the National Bank has achieved and preserved financial stability and not only that, but has contributed to a stable business environment. We've brought inflation from a two-digit level to a level comparable to the European level. Over the course of a year, we have reduced annual inflation from 12.9% to 2.2%, which is an extraordinary result. I've already talked about it, and I said it's historic, not just me, but my esteemed colleagues. Serbia has been in continuity for five years in a group of countries that have achieved low and predictable inflation in a stable manner. By preserving the low inflation environment, we have facilitated the decision-making of business and investment operators, as well as the decision-making of our citizens on consumption and savings. The fact is that inflation is not being talked about in Serbia today. In the past six years, the National Bank of Serbia has established and preserved the relative stability of the exchange rate towards the euro, in an environment of significant turbulence in exchange for international markets. If the period from 2012 to 2018 is observed, the euro remains almost unchanged. That is why, due to all these results, surpluses in the budget, the Republic of Serbia is able to take good care of social protection institutions in a good way. If we want to be responsible and developed European society, we need to show responsibility to the most vulnerable categories of the population. Citizens from socially endangered groups are allowed, if they so wish, to open a current account thanks to your set of laws, and banks are obliged to do so to all citizens who have a stay in the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their financial capacity. This is the responsible social policy led by the SNS, headed by its President, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38258	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38259	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Arsic, the distinguished Mrs. Tabakovic and his associates, the honourable MPs, this law on the protection of financial services in the distance settlement, and thus the amendment I have submitted, are very important because they are heading towards the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, for which the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the NBS, headed by Governor Dr. Jorgenko Tabakovic, most of the MPs in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The former regime, instead of implementing modernization, and thus this law, it destroyed our country and left our country so that it was economically, economically, industrially and culturally devastated. Instead of hiring 200,000 workers who had promised in time since 2008 and 2012, they, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fired, believed or not, from the work of 573,000 workers and sent to the streets and the factories devastated. That was the result of the former regime's policy. This law will also affect the overall development of education and education, especially distance learning, where pedagogy has been using this for a few dozen years, and not only that, but also the moral development of each student, especially the patriotic feeling of our students. If Cedomir Jovanovic, called Cedo Smurf, had formed a patriotic feeling as a student, and he did not, he would not have said 20.6.2 years, I quote -- Republika Srpska was created on genocide, at an ethnic cleansing unrecorded in Europe after World War II. It's a finished quote. That patriotic feeling doesn't even have his esteemed friend Nenad Canak, called Nasha Gicoje, who said, quote, that KIM should be an independent country. It's a finished quote. That is why, Mr. Vice President, this amendment and this law are very important for our country's progress, for the entire system of education and education, especially distance learning. In voting day, I propose a gentleman, but they are not, from the party of the former regime, to vote in favour of this law, even for this amendment. I thought the former regime gentlemen were present, but they're gone. They finished the party vote, they elected Mr Lutovac, but journalists called him a stray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38260	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go, colleague Charapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38261	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, in the previous four years, the government of the Republic of Serbia, responsible for politics, teamwork, together with the NBS, has achieved fantastic results. Serbia is on its way today. I can freely say that Serbia today is synonym for a country with accelerated economic development. About that, I've also submitted an amendment. Somehow, I have a need, listening to today's debate, to mention the expansion of banks, which began since 2001. You know, banks are profitable institutions and they didn't come to Serbia because the previous government was a magician, so they attracted the banking system and foreign banks to Serbia. That's not why. It's not because of that, it's because by 2012, we had an unstable financial and monetary system. We had high reference interest rates. The banks achieved one-of-a-kind profiles. That's why they came to Serbia, and the problems that have arisen and tang our citizens are because we haven't had adequate legal solutions that protected the interests of our citizens. That is why today we are adopting legal solutions that protect users of financial services. In 2014, we adopted a fantastic legal solution where banks are obliged to inform financial services users of their achievements and not to reach their obligations. During that period, Serbian citizens, because they had low incomes, were forced to take enormously expensive loans and found themselves in trouble. Today, the National Bank of Serbia solves problematic loans and their participation is record low today in total loans, the participation of problematic loans is 9.2% In their time, the reference interest rate was up to 18%. Today, the reference interest rate is record low, at 3%, and this means for Serbian citizens they can take favourable and residential loans and consumer loans. For the economy, it means it can take favourable investment loans, then, liquidity loans for permanent crafts that are never more favourable than today. Everything our government does, all the measures taken by the NBS are in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of economic operators. Then, our only goal is to increase the profitability of the economy, to increase the standard of living for our citizens and to open up as many new jobs as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38262	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38263	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Law and certainly what is important is that the financial sector is one of the fastest-developed sectors and monitors the fastest technology. From the very beginning, practically, the functioning of the banking system you have the development and monitoring of technology because the essence remained the same, but the technology was changing. The technology is now progressing both the banking sector and the financial sector, of course, is financing, but at the same time the fastest acceptance. With the development and accelerated functioning of the IT sector, the telecommunications sector, an entirely new area of action is being opened, which means that the system of functioning, based on trust, communication, transparency must remain the same. This requires the state of Serbia that the system and the normative acts that adapt to such a mode of operation must change and adapt. This is necessary in order for the financial sector system to function with completely new services in the time the NBS must define, all of which is due to the fact that the public finances of the Republic of Serbia's budget, or the budget of the local administrations at the level of the general state, function in the financial sector. When we talk about security of services at a distance, we are actually talking about the security of macroeconomic stability that enables such laws and the entire system to function as safely and stablely as possible. With the broad action taken in 2014 and concerning the measures concerning macroeconomic stability, the state of Serbia has made it possible, in addition to the political stability needed for any macroeconomic stability, fiscal and monetary stability that has led us to the result that Serbia today represents a leading force in this part of the Balkans that allows its citizens to live more and more day by day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38264	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thanks to the wise and thoughtful NBS policy that has provided the monetary stability of our country in the last six years, thanks to the good and successful policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that of the Government led by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government led by Mrs Brnabic, we have succeeded to significantly improve our entire security sector and to strengthen the security capacities of the Republic of Serbia to the highest possible extent. Thanks to NBS policy and thanks to the policy of the Republic of Serbia, we managed not only to buy the most modern weapons for the Army of Serbia, not only to provide new uniforms, new boots for members of the military and police, we are today able to do something that Serbia has not done in the last few decades, and that is to start one big action to build apartments in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Something like that wouldn't have been possible if it hadn't been for a solid NBS policy when it came to defending the dinar course. On this occasion, I want to do it again. Successful fruit and one synergy seen in the work of the NBS in the past six years, on the one hand, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, is giving its results. If it weren't for that policy, we wouldn't have a strong army of Serbia today, we wouldn't have powerful members of the MUP and all security services. In that sense, Mrs Tabakovic, I would like to give you support to continue with such a policy, because monetary stability is not only important for the economy, but it is also in the function of defending the Republic of Serbia, it is also in the role of strengthening Serbia as a state that can help, not only itself, but it can help Serbs who have stayed to live in the republics that have occurred in the former Yugoslavia's space.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38266	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as already said in the debate so far, this law is directly in the function of modernising our country and creating a good, efficient and successful society in our Republic. The intensity of the amendment to Article 1 is precisely to underline and further highlight this broader context of the development of our society and of our country that we are really achieving, which is today a complete political reality in our Serbia. So we fully achieve a responsible relationship with what is doing our common good. It is about the most important – our Serbia, but also all the resources that our society owns. A serious and responsible relationship has made us to have what to be content with today, to have what to boast about, and, above all, to think about the serious results that should be built. What exactly? All the things the SNS MPs have spoken about today. Let's say, last year, GDP per capita for the first time exceeded 5,000 euros. So, for the first time since these things are recorded and measured, and that's something that should be good news for all of us. By the way, be it said, when someone is suffering, even if it was a tabloid like "Today", it must not fall into error, so it continues to say something like, and they said, and that is such good value per capita because of the population's outflows. They should not be lazy, take one digitron, make 30 seconds of effort to check that compared to the number of people in Serbia and this year, and last, and last, ever, this result directly stems from the total GDP. So the real reason is that in this country today we are working, creating, accomplishing, and today we have something to be content with. The obligation is not only to defend these good results, but to make them even better, but as much as tomorrow. How? The joint work, the persistent, the painful, dedicated work of the whole society, including, of course, the modest contribution of those of us who do so through the work of the National Assembly, including through our support for great laws such as this. In that sense, another card, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38268	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jeftic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38269	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Governor with fellow Members, honourable MPs, on the proposal for a law on the protection of customers of financial services in the distance settlement, I submit an amendment to Article 1 which further defines the link between the proposed legislative solution with the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Article 1 lays down the subject matter of the law. It is prescribed that the law lays down the rights of users of financial services when contracting financial services using means of communication at a distance, as well as the conditions and means of protecting those rights. The proposed legal solution introduces special protection for users of all financial services operating on our market, including those not under the supervision of the NBS, but under the supervision of the Securities Commission, such as investment companies and investment funds. Protection is covered, not only by consumers but also by farmers and entrepreneurs, given their lower financial education. The trend of digitisation in all areas of social life, which is rapidly developed in the financial sector, the value of transactions made by online cards in 2017 is around 20 billion dinars, imposes the need to introduce special protection for users who are not physically present at the moment of providing information or conclusion of the contract, use the Internet or mobile phones, which in itself creates a risk that the user, without the necessary explanations, will choose a financial product and commit to a financial institution that does not meet its needs, and can last for several years. The impediment to the electronic conclusion of the contract was also a requirement for the user to have a qualified electronic signature when looking for a written form. This law overcomes this problem by asking only for a financial institution, while the user will be able to use it to give consent and existing methods of payment through electronic and mobile banking applications. All of the above is said in a proposed legislative solution which continues to encourage greater digitalisation in the financial sector and encourages users to use these services more massively through modern means of communication by additional protection contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia in all areas of social life, because they are realistically all leaning on the financial sector mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38270	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38271	The Honorable Chairman, respected Governor Tabakovic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, general technological development and the growing importance of electronic business in modern life have also contributed to the development of new ways to offer and advertise financial services, which has led to the need for further editing and provision of financial services, above all by providing them at a distance. The improvement of the business environment, the reduction of the cost of the economy in the work related to the business of payment cards and that of line trade and the additional protection of financial service users provides stability and further prosperity of the Serbian state, and thus a better environment for further development of the health system of the Republic of Serbia. The number of Serbian citizens who made internet payments in 2017 was almost two million, and the number of those who made mobile payments for the first time exceeded one million. This clearly points to the trend of digitisation of a society in which banks predominate by offering clients the use of a number of services via internet and mobile banking, which imposes the need to improve the protection of users of financial services and digitalisation of the healthcare system is very important and practically necessary when we talk about the efficiency of the management of healthcare institutions. Applying software solutions to healthcare managers enables control of the efficiency of all elements in the process. There is no doubt that, in the near future in Serbia, we should expect an accelerated digitalisation of the health system, development, upgrade and further systematic integration of existing IT platforms in healthcare, heliant E appointment, E health book, E recipe, as well as the development of many other IT solutions and applications that are increasingly becoming a strategic policy of health systems around the world. On the one hand, Serbia's health system is supported by the Ministry of Health, and on the other hand, local self-government in this way performs tasks in terms of improving the services of Serbian citizens and enables a stable financing and a rational and quality system of health care, all in order to provide basic health care for the population in the context of available funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-06-0.u38272	Thank you. With the amendment debate on Article 1, this was the last, we would finish today's work and continue tomorrow immediately after the 16th special session of the National Assembly begins at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes. Thank you.
