ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43322	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dusko Tarbuk, Gordana Comić and Vesna Ivkovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Supplementary Law on Pensions and INVALIDS under Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the context of the search in detail on the first item of the agenda, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance are invited to attend all members of the Government: Bojana Stanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, Jelena Tanaskovic and Slavica Sašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zoran Milosevic, Deputy Minister for Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, and Dragan Kalinović, Director of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43323	The amendment proposed changing the title of the law and indicating that it refers to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Pension and Disabilities Insurance in the Republic of Serbia. We can accept that it may not be essential and we would accept such an explanation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why the amendment is not accepted, but the argument of the Government, Mr Djordjevic, does not know who did this to you, that the amendment is not accepted, that is, for the reasons why the law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. If you follow this logic, then you couldn't change any members, then you shouldn't have deleted any members, then you shouldn't have added any members, then you shouldn't have proposed amendments and additions to this law at all. If you can change Article 134, 137, 130, etc., there's no reason why you can't change the law. The point of this is that what you're writing in the title is that the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, that you're treating regular pensions differently compared to disability pensions. We remember, before you did, the minister took some action to determine the correctness of these disability pensions, because it's a public secret today as well, and we never got a report on what you did, or did you do anything, did you undo any solutions because of some malversions in getting those solutions. We all remember, for example, that Jasna Avramovic, who is now mayor of Smedereva, who was up to her throat, involved in malfeasance, even had a criminal record and was convicted and then joined the ruling party, so that the Court of Appeal would annul her decision on punishment. So, for money, she was giving documentation that someone could get a disability pension. We ask of you only a report of what has been done by what your predecessor has announced to the great bells that you will do. Another question and a message actually, the disabled pensioners to you ministers is why, when the state separates some funds and helps pensioners with some 5,000 dinars or whatever, why do you single out disabled pensioners? If we're going to help those who are really disabled pensioners, that's even more than the rest of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43324	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43325	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines 18 rights of Serbian citizens and among them is one of the basic rights acquired pensions. For this very reason, we have also submitted this amendment that I am now explaining, that in a comprehensive way, this area is being arranged. When you took over from the SNS, you brought the IMF lobbyist to the finance minister, now former Minister Dusan Vujovic, who said in 2014 that some revolutionary solution would finally settle this area and that is why we are asking for the whole area to be defined. The pensioners who have, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, can't get the pension right to be dependent on whether the minister for these issues will be, as far as Siniša Mali's finances are concerned, and Vujovic was, before that phantom, financial Lazar Krstic, or you will do it now, Mr Djordjevic. Pensions must indeed be the right and economic and social category in a society that has suffered robbery by a "yellow company", privatisation where people have remained only before retirement without a job and today this vacuum lasts to dozens, not to say maybe even hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia do not know how it will achieve its right. Now to those who have achieved their right to do so, you with these innovations, as my colleague Radeta said, you had absolutely no right to change any member then, you want to deny what they have done with hard work and what the Constitution guaranteed them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43326	Thank you. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Sarovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an even more important issue, Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you, as you know, are guaranteeing citizens certain rights and there are certain acquired rights that must not be touched, among other things, that is the right to pensions. You obviously do not distinguish pension rights from social aid and you showed this when you passed the law, which you kidnapped Serbian citizens who were entitled to in accordance with the Constitution and the law, when you took away what they earned. Pensions are paid on the basis of taxes and contributions made by Serbian citizens, some longer, some shorter, most full-time traineeships, to be able to live in the age of decent people, so they can pay bills, so they can buy what they need, to heal, to travel, to do what they want. Did you take 10% of your pensions or did you make a decree to kidnap yourself for example? From current accounts to all 10% or 10% savings, it doesn't matter. Robbery is robbery, kidnapping is kidnapping. You're entering a sphere where you shouldn't have entered. You, of course, guaranteed before the election, we always remind and want to remind you today, your President Alexander Vukic assured the pensioners that they would not be hit and that nothing would be taken from them, that you would not take away their pensions, that they would be protected because they were the ones who built the land. However, it was very quickly forgotten and immediately after the election you made savings in the budget. Instead of saving on fountains, instead of saving on thieving, instead of saving on corruption, and another promise was that you would save a billion euros a year by abolishing corruption during public procurement, you decided to continue on the path that the "yellows" went before you, therefore, and you a billion at least to steal through public procurement, but you decided to kidnap some of the pensions from the pensioners. You're passing the law today, you're saying it's a great victory, which you're not all about to win back, but a part of it to the pensioners. Here's the real question, and you often boast about statistics, how many of those you won't pay back. How many pensioners who have died during these previous years, those who have starved, those who have lived in misery, those who have been denied the ability to buy medicines, buy food, pay their bills, those who have been denied the opportunity to help their children, to buy something to their grandchildren who go to school or give them lunch? What about these people, how are you going to damage them, how are you going to damage their families? That's another reason you shouldn't have stolen from the pensioners. You have the right at all times to say to employees of state bodies, in public services – from tomorrow we reduce your salary 10% or 20% or 30%, so that each of them decides whether they want to or not to work for that salary or to seek happiness elsewhere, and the pensioners they earned can't tell, or you shouldn't, you did, unfortunately, and you shouldn't say – there's no. What you've taken from these people is irrevocable. So, first of all, are you ashamed of what you did and how you plan to compensate and that part of Serbia's citizens who are absolutely not mentioned in this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43328	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43329	Dear colleagues, through these amendments I will speak my vision of this bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia remains consistent in its insistence to unite and connect something that cannot be connected. So today we have a proposal for a pension insurance law together with the election of the Vice Governor of the National Bank, two laws in the field of education and a dozen interstate agreements relating to our country's international co-operation. In doing so, one good idea about abolishing the Law on the temporary reduction of pensions is lost on importance and value. You've united all of this, and you've brought it all together by emergency procedure. The pension system concerns a huge number of Serbian citizens, employees and pensioners, employees and unemployed, states and businessmen, future and past work, economy and rights, betrayal and restrictions, stabilisation and crisis, and many more. It is, at the very least, the everyday life of millions of Serbian citizens. The key issue is the unfavourable relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners. When that number is balanced, then we can talk about a fundamental, stable and sustainable system. The pension system, especially in a country like ours, must not depend on anyone's will, desire, interest, ideology, composition of the government, advisory bodies, etc. So, in one word, we need a stable, thorough and sustainable system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43330	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43331	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the title of the bill, we have tabled an amendment relating to the pension and disability insurance system. As a reason for the adoption, you state and say that the basic objective of reforming the pension and disability insurance system is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system that will ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. However, this bill, or legal solution, will in no way allow the pension system to function normally. The harmonisation of pensions that you propose, or the way pensions are coordinated, is hardly possible in this way, because there is no legal obligation to coordinate pensions. Also, there is no clear formula for that alignment. All of this can only negatively affect the predictability of the pension system. Also, as a remark, it would state, and what is extremely unacceptable, that the Government has discretionaryly decided on the terms, the heights and dynamics of payment of the cash amount as an increase in pension, as proposed by Article 37 of the Law. That is why it is best to withdraw this bill from the procedure and to pass a whole new law that would make order in the pension and disability insurance system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43332	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, by submitting this amendment to the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act we wanted to make a clear distinction between how you see the pension system and how the Serbian Radical Party sees it. There's a huge difference. We said it should stand – the Retirement-Invalid Insurance System Act. For what? To point out once again how important it is and how important it is. Pensions are not something any government, the president of the state, assigns to its citizens without any basis. These are acquired rights and absolutely could not be changed and complemented, and yet you, to make the tragedy bigger, and I would say the sadness, in 2014 changes and additions of this law are called reforms. The reform can be called, I understand it so, something where some irregularities are removed in a serious, consistent and lasting way, and by not taking from Serbian citizens what they have acquired. The way to get to a certain amount of funding you took from the pensioners, or citizens of Serbia, was more, and we pointed to them – reduce the number of agencies, here is a good source for raising funds. It was one, but it seems to me in Serbia, if reforms are implemented in this way, related to the pension-inhabitation system, so that perhaps the government could, or some legislative changes, recognise in our legal system and the protector of the pensioners of Serbia. It seems to me that this would be more effective, and perhaps more necessary, for many pensioners than the Protector of Serbian Citizens. I am absolutely sure, as with the Serbian Citizens' Protector, there are a large number of cases from local self-government, which is why you want to repatriate from the republican level of government at the local level, that there is a large number of citizens' conversions and on the basis of the denied pension insurance rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43334	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Ljubenović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43335	Thank you. On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance, the SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment that we proposed to amend the title. We have submitted this amendment because we believe that the amendment solution is more appropriate and comprehensive. When we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance, we heard in principle what the President of the SRS said, Dr Vojislav Seselj – that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should in no way have passed the Law on the provisional regulation of how pensions were paid. From 2014 to today, our parliamentary group has resented you for this, and we have always pointed out that this government procedure is unjust and illegal. The Serbian Radical Party will always insist that laws are adopted in the National Assembly that will be in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including pensioners. The proposer of this law, amendments and additions, cited as reasons for the adoption of this law the need for further editing of the pension-inhabitation system, and in the context of the reform of the system since 2002. As a primary objective of reforming the pension and disability insurance system, it cites the creation of conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, which will ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. We also have the unequivocal recognition of the promoter that the measures implemented during the reforms were mostly restrictive. Because of the burden that most pensioners in Serbia have endured for years, the Serbian Radical Party insists on stopping further collapse of pensioners' position and that, as I have already pointed out in the National Assembly, laws have to be adopted that will benefit our citizens of pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43336	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the bill on disability and pension insurance. What's most important is that this law has raised a huge public pomp, where the government wants to show and show the public how it finally found a magic formula, a magic wand to solve many social problems, especially for a pensioner's solution. I am responsibly saying that there is no magic wand here, nor has the Government found a way to get rid of it, or to improve the material position of our pensioners, because if it had done so, it would not have done so for any increase in pensions or any other donations consulted, or asked and requested approval from the IMF. Although there is some increase in any budget spending, budget expenditure from the Republic of Serbia's budget, it must first approve the IMF, and the government itself admits, so don't brag about these things. On the other hand, no pensioner position has been corrected, because if we know what the standard was and what it was like four years ago when there was a pensioner reduction, or if we know what bills were for municipal and other services, let's compare it to today's pension increase and turn it into percentages, because simply by a parallel method it can be concluded that even with such an increase that the government boasts about all the bells, there has been no improvement in the material position of the pensioner, even against this material position it is still more difficult and weaker and worse than it was before.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43338	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Despotovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43339	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, one fundamental question arises whether it had to be resorted four years ago to the fact that the oldest population suffered a blow to its own empty pocket anyway. I understand the fact that Serbia, as you say, was in front of bankruptcy at the moment, and if that is true, and all of us, as well as the citizens of Serbia, know who is responsible for this solar system and the debacle of the budget system, the same ones that brought Serbia to the brink of destruction today, unfortunately, bright and clothe Serbia. In my humble opinion, not only is Darko Saric the biggest criminal, as you say in Serbia, whose assets were being looted and sold to auctions. I'm asking you, why hasn't she been preying on and selling the assets of political powers and their tycoons known to have been acquired and in what way? Such money would fit into Serbia's budget, and certainly from the money acquired by the sale of domestic banks and aunt's expensive couch, the PIO fund would be full and today the pensioners would have no concern for what he earned and gained with his hard work. What the SRS is saying and suggesting is that at least pensions, below 30,000 dinars, are significantly increased, and the largest, from 100 to 130, remain on the same level, as such in Serbia are from 1,717,000. In particular, it is necessary to put an accent on those pensions that are social categories, which is a agricultural pension. With such a proper social policy and increasing these pensions, it would mean those who have devoted their whole lives to the village and have maintained it, and today, unfortunately, they barely survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43340	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Filip Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43341	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance by amending the name of the law. This is not the first time that the SRS parliamentary group has submitted amendments to the name of the bill, but we are forced to do so because you insist on refusing our legitimate suggestions. In fact, we keep asking that the title of all the laws should include a provision that says it is the laws of the Republic of Serbia. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and then it is logical that all the laws in it are adopted in their name and have a decree that says it is the Republic of Serbia, but it means nothing to you. You have an absolute majority, you act comfortable, and you think you can do as you please. This is not how a democratically elected parliament should function, and it will sooner or later break your mind. You have examples of some who ruled before you, who had a convincing majority than you have, who acted even worse than you, and you see today where they are. So you have to be aware that sometimes some amendments to the opposition parties must be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43342	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Vjerica Radeta, Dejan Šulkić and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Radeta's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43343	Yes, we suggested that this first member of the Amendment and Supplement be deleted because the existing Article 12, which you were changing this article, is actually more comprehensive, more precise. I don't know why, Minister, in the Ministry, they think what they wrote in their explanation that the amendment is being rejected for the reason that this approach defines work for self-employed workers? How can it be closer if you have deleted that this is done, among other things, as the exercise of management powers and management operations in accordance with the law governing the position of companies. You're really writing these arguments just to write something, and it certainly isn't good and it says that these services work for you, and that's why bad bill proposals happen to you, often with bad translations, etc., but this amendment and our entire amendment and the overall debate on this bill essentially warns Serbian pensioners and those who will be in the future pensioners that you will adopt a very dangerous law that provides for the possibility of a possible increase in pensions only when the government assesses it and when the government says there are enough funds in the budget. You shouldn't have, Minister Djordjevic, let the law erase the possibility of harmonising pensions. Whether it was done in a good way now, if you had any other formulas, if you had other deadlines when you were doing it, that's something that could have been discussed, but what you're doing, dear pensioners means, or it can mean that there will never be an increase in pensions again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43344	The word is made by MP Dragan Sulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43345	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have proposed that Article 1 be deleted, which is deleted from Article 12, provisions concerning the exercise of management powers and business of management of companies, in accordance with the law governing their position. It is explained that in this way the norm is in line with the provisions of the company law. My proposal to amend this proposal, i.e. the amendment for the first time, I must say, is either equal to or proportional to this legislative amendment, or to the proposal you made, but in the context of this amendment, like many of my colleagues, I wanted to look back on the position of the companies in question when it comes to PIO. So, the context of the proposal to amend this law. With these changes and others that have been so far, you can place a variety of powers in this way or similar way and edit the pension-inhabitation system is not in favour of employees in this way and will just expand the situation so-called. pay-offs by employers, with that difference, which will actually be an incentive, which will be an employee, because which benefits employees to receive in accordance with the law, with all contributions over the minimum amount of earnings if they are already clear, given the uncertainty and uncertainty that we are establishing this law, that paying them off at the payout, that is, on the basis of the work they are doing with the employer, will wait for them as a pensioner. Not to mention that even a reduction can happen again, and if we introduced a precedent that the reduction could be 10%, it could be 20%, 50%, and maybe 90%. So this is a negative consequence and employees will not be motivated to work for profits over a minimum amount, but to agree with employers that over a minimum amount of earnings is paid to them. As for these changes, what do they really mean for employees? They mean that there is no increase, but pensions return to the level of 2014, with the difference that they do not increase, or return to a level that would have been if, in the meantime, the methodology prescribed by the law had been applied, because in 2014, with the temporary reduction, the pension harmonisation formula was suspended. What else is there? There's no return on the reduction amount. There's no return on the amount that would have been paid on the basis of the pension adjustment formula. There is no formula for harmonising pensions for the future. A lot has already been said about this in principle and in particular, a lot has been said in the debate. But what's up? It has helped as comforting rewards that pensioners, according to the government's assessment, will assess which category, with what amount, assessment of dynamics and heights by the government, to achieve so-called. the financial sustainability of the pension system that the government will, up to 0.3% of GDP. So that's a possibility, it's not an obligation for those pensioners who certainly count on it and calculate that it can be 5,000 or 10,000 dinars, that it's one option given by law, and whether to what extent and to whom it will be paid, it will depend on the assessment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The minister reassured the MPs several times, so it seems to me that he also wanted to send a message to the citizens, that it would be decided by the Assembly, and this proposal as if the government were not counting on the support of the Assembly, at least when it comes to this assembly. He has assured us many times - you will see that when you consider the draft budget law for 2019 and amending the Budgetary System Act, you will see that the pension increase will be greater than the inflation rate. Methodology should, must exist, and if the government considers at this point that it should and such a possibility exists, it can be an additional correct factor, so that it is linked to GDP growth or to other parameters and that we allow what the government wants, but that it is prescribed, that pensioners can be increased pensions and more than a percentage of inflation or cost of life. On the other hand, when it comes to companies, the question arises as to how it is possible that the state is not responding, and I cannot honestly believe that it was undetected, that certain companies, a lot of this is said in public, have not been paying PIO for years, that is, contributions to which the law obliges them. For example, “Gosa” from Smederjevska Palanca, Shinska vehicles, we have had the opportunity to look at numerous dramas to which employees were forced in Smederjevska Palanca and then the question arises - if you are not developing mechanisms for control, that is to say, to control the application of the laws that this Assembly is voting on, the question that is valid is raised? We often hear from ministers, whether it was Minister Djordjevic and Minister Sarcevic repeatedly spoke about it in principle debate, so we do not have enough inspectors. That can't be an excuse. Well, for God's sake, Inspector. If a "Gosa" from Smederevska Palanka has remained in debt to employees, I think over 2m euros, if it remains for the country to contribute about 4.7, it is only about sevenm euros in a single company's debt to the state and the question is whether it will ever be employed and whether the state will be charged by that company, and all the opportunity is that it will not. When we talk about the number of inspectors, nobody's stopping you from seeing if, by one local self-government, it's just an increase in the number of inspectors, one by one, that's 150 inspectors, so that's about a million, two hundred thousand euros a year for all inspectors. On the other hand, I cite only the "Gosse" of Smederjevska Palanka, which has denied a significantly higher budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43346	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43347	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment of ours means deleting Article 1. Article 1 of this law is one of the less problematic members of this law, but unfortunately because of the practice, which has lasted almost a year in parliament to submit pointless amendments, hundreds of such amendments, we will not be able to discuss those later members who, contrary to what the minister said here, are allegedly bringing benefits to the pensioners. In our opinion, they do great damage to the pensioners and not only to them, but also to those who will one day be pensioners, and I hope that all of us here, except those who are already retired, hope that we will experience that pension. What is bad in this law, I will repeat, which there is no return to the amount of pensions for over half a million people in Serbia in the past four years, which in the future introduces complete arbitration on the possible increase in pensions by the government, according to a member of the law, setting out how many pensions these pensions will be. Also, a pension bonus is being introduced which will make it even more clouded how much pensions are in Serbia, how many pensioners receive, how much will receive in the future, how many of the citizens who work and pay today, hoping to welcome their pension, will have that pension if it comes to it. All these measures are returning to Serbia, destroying the predictability of the pension system, destroying the system and the social agreement that has worked for more than half a century and that is why we will be against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43348	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43349	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Arsic, when you chair meetings of the National Assembly, you must listen to what anyone is saying, and you are obliged to comply with the Rules of Procedure and to react. You obviously as well as ministers, here you are now talking to each other or talking to other MPs, obviously you're doing the same thing and you're not listening to what's going on in the O.R. The previous speaker said the amendments previously discussed, which are mostly amendments of the SRS MPs, are pointless. He doesn't have a right to do that, and it's not the first time, and it's for who knows which time the double standards of DS and its derivatives are. I will remind you that this gentleman's amendment has been "expunged", and you remember from the famous times when you were also a respected Serbian radical, that regularly those from the DS have said that these amendments "wipes" are not good. So they spoke when they were power, and now that they've come to the opposition, they now have a different attitude. They now submit the amendments "is deleted", but continue to believe they have the right to disdain other MPs, other parliamentary groups and the amendments they submit. That is not so, of course, and this, Mr Arsic, is a warning for you not to allow speakers to insult other MPs. I was saying, I don't know if I said it at first, it's a 107 member who says every speaker has to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. They are also duty ministers and are respected by their obligation to listen to the MPs and to participate instead of sneezing, laughing, probably telling each other jokes, they are obliged to listen to what the MPs say and to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43350	Indeed, counterpart Sarovic, I cannot influence how any MP will determine the qualification of an amendment. I don't know why you were called here because as far as I know, MP Marko Djurisic submitted the same amendment as some MPs from the SRS. I really don't understand. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Nemanja Sarovic: Yes. All right. By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43351	Yes, according to the amendment, Mr. Chairman, because of this argument in which he really is a MP, he said he submitted this amendment, so I understood him, because he believes that there is some practice of meaningless amendments. I understood it as his personal experience of his own amendment because he believes such a practice exists, he endures the amendment. I'm sorry he's experiencing his amendment like that. I wouldn't go into the reasons why he thinks that way about himself and his amendments. I just wanted to since part of the argument was that he wouldn't have time to discuss some other amendments, to take this opportunity for two good news. The first good news is for the very MP who thinks his amendments are pointless. His MP group has six minutes and 13 seconds that he can use to discuss any amendment, so he can talk for six minutes about what he's going to come up with later, whatever he's thinking. That's good news for him if he didn't know that. The other good news for Serbian citizens is that, of course, these measures and this law bring Serbia back absolutely are not true. The good news is that after the adoption of this law, all categories of pensions will be more than ever and that is certainly a good thing and I congratulate everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43352	By amendment, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43353	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, apparently all parties to the opposition, regardless of their political beliefs, have put into one corpus of repeating topics that speak of there being no formula, that there is one uncertainty when it comes to indexing and harmonising pensions at all in the future, which is of course not true because it is in the lack of arguments that it is simply to make a certain constructive proposal when it comes to harmonising pensions at all and supporting the growth of the economy as Serbia today also has the opening of new jobs and investments that come every day in Serbia. On the other hand, we should remind ourselves that since 2008, the average salary, which amounted to 400 euros, came to only 330 euros in 2010, that pensions were then 60% of the average personal income, so that the average pensions fell from 240 euros to 150 euros. At the time, no government said it would coordinate and restore the practical difference that damaged Serbian citizens, or pensioners, by projecting inflation to 10%, by jumping from 80 to 120 dinars. So they cheated on pensioners every month about how in nominal terms they increase pensions, and in fact they made one social category completely, people who don't know how they're gonna wake up tomorrow with that, with money in their pocket and buy certain groceries to support their families. What's important is that by 2000, the theme of how they paid off 12 social-class pensions is about their hypocrisy, which is that the pension and salary at that time was an average of 1,842 dinars, which at the time was 30 marks, then, if we're going to talk about euros, that's 15 euros. So, when you say - we've returned those pensions and salaries, they actually want to say that they've cheated on Serbian pensioners and made a campaign on how they, God gave them, sided with the pensioners and supported them and paid them back certain debts that don't exist. The guaranteed right of every pensioner is the right to retire. Retirement levels, pension levels depend on one state's economic power. Because if you're going to go on this principle now, please explain to me that in 2000 there was a pension of 15 euros, how was the pension of 200 in 2008, and how was it 150 euros in 2010? What we want here today to tell the pensioners of Serbia is that a secure model of pension financing has been established, because there is a secure economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens should no longer be concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43354	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Zivkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43355	Thank you very much. We have submitted eight amendments, of which, this first one is a lexic nature, which means we are correcting the text of the law and I expect the competent minister and government to adopt this amendment, because it does not enter into the essence of the law, which is bad. Generally, I find it very interesting to hear these stories of great success again, of wonders, of great progress, of pensions that will never be greater. It's a continuation of the lies we hear all the time and practically lies are the biggest in this government. Many authorities, probably almost everything or everything, have lied, but this level of lies is really the first time in history. Of course, after October 5, the government returned, although there was no legal obligation to do so, all the debts that preceded your rule, when you were younger or small, and some of them were small, led by this country, which are pensions, 12 pensions, 20 and some maternity leave, children's allowances, old virgin savings, even those who were gullible to a Jedi and Dafini, and they were paid back in absolute amount, and there is no doubt there. Surely, it is verifiable that the salaries and pensions in Serbia were higher than they were today, and in 1990, at the time of that Ante Markovic, i.e. the economy that then had one jump, which was not very natural, but was evident and of course that salaries and pensions had dramatic growth, first of all, during 2001, when pensions were increased seven, eight times, because they were reduced to nothing, where salaries were increased four, five times by educational workers, doctors, police officers, military persons, all those who today are victims of this blatant government, which took not only the money, but also the right, legal right and property of pensioners, because these assets do not depend on the goodwill of those or these authorities, of whether the elections in three months or three years, but rather their acquired right. You, by voting for such a law, are more guilty than the legislators, who are your bosses, for having your pensioners stolen. They, unfortunately, have the full right to sue their country and before domestic courts and, unfortunately, before international courts, which can leave major negative consequences for this country. Therefore, this amendment could fix the law if the other members of the law were good. So, I join the proposal of the Fiscal Council to withdraw the law from the arguments set out in their review of this bad law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43356	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the President of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, Mr. Nedjeljko Cubrilovic, who is officially visiting the Republic of Serbia with the members of the delegation. Please welcome our esteemed guests. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43357	Thank you. Just for public information. The average pension of 2009. The year was 210.6, 2011. In 193, 2012. In the year 208.8 etc. The average pension today is 211.3. After the law is abolished, it will be 228 euros. It is the only true truth that Serbian citizens should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43358	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. It's just that there's statistical data out there. I don't know what's offensive about that. The word has been given by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43359	Thank you. I think it's a good thing that Serbian citizens have a chance to hear in direct transmissions that any of us are looking at the past, but more importantly, as one of us sees the future. The Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandar Vucic have shown in the previous six years how we look at the state's leadership, how responsible, honestly, and I stress the country's responsible leadership, in relation to everything that our predecessors have spoken to us, and one of them spoke before me, the amendment promoter, how they led this country. Well, he takes care of the pensioners while you're in power, takes care of the workers while you're in power, takes care of their rights while you're in power, while you perform the state responsible functions that the people choose you to do. He doesn't worry about it later, that you have an expedient mind, so you say, "Well, now I know what should be done." What have you been doing for 12 years? For 12 years you've closed down factories, 12 years you've closed down companies, 12 years you've fired workers from jobs, 12 years you've affected the fact that unreal increases in the country's pensions and wages are bankrupt. By robbing these same pensioners, you have shortened their future and taken away their right to live honestly and politely from what they have earned during their working lives. The Serbian Progressive Party has managed to bring order into finance in Serbia with responsible economic policy, responsible fiscal policy, and today we have a real increase in both salaries and pensions. Today, pensioners support so many SNS and Alexander Vukic. And you look at the support you have in the elections, it's measured by a statistical error, where you are, where we are and how pensioners live today and how employees live in the Republic of Serbia today. This country has only been left with 12 years of your authority, and that is a terrible consequence. You have desolated this country. In your day, some of them were saying, "Get your degree and get the hell out of here." In our time, science parks are opening up here, children are deciding to stay in this country more and more, to open their businesses and build their futures and their families in Serbia. I'm sure that's going to be more and more in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43360	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43361	Very interesting. Of course, this isn't a replica, because there's nothing to replicate, regardless of the volume of what we've seen and what we haven't heard. If you'd like, let me remind you of what the government was doing at the time when I had the responsibility of power. It was from November 2000 until early March 2004. So 2001, 2002 and 2003. At the time, Serbia's public debt was reduced, listen to me well, write by 10 billion euros. At that time, all the debts that your older colleagues, the destroyers of Serbia, the people responsible for several hundred thousand dead people, were paid back. At that time, the number of people employed in the Serbian economy was higher than it is today. So, check the end of 2003, bigger than today. Then all the privatisations that were absolutely clean, legal and useful were completed. If you don't believe me, ask the current finance minister, this kid of yours, because he was in charge of privatisation at the Privatisation Agency at the time. He guaranteed me that everything was clean. If something wasn't clean, it was his fault. If there's anything clean, I'm responsible. I'm kidding a little bit, but it's close. At the end of 2003, about the value of the government at the time, except that pensioners received debts, received five times more pensions than in a year before, it happened that the foreign currency, which is called the euro, was then worth 67 dinars. So, almost half as much as it's worth right now, and that's talking about you. What you, who you worked with after 2004, who made you, who changed you, I don't care. I was out of politics from 2004 to 2012 until the evil in the right form returned, and then I began to engage again. Of course, I agree with you that the rating of my party, which I am conducting, and its results in the election are drastically smaller than your results, but believe me, Hitler had excellent results in Germany before the start of World War II.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43362	Mr. Zivkovic, next time you start celebrating Hitler's life's work, you'll get a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic: You did not understand. I understand perfectly. (Zoran Zivkovic: It is the worst possible insult. I insulted Hitler worse than history... I now give you a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic: Why? What are you warning me about? Because of the throw-off. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43363	Thank you, Chairman. Whoever's here, at least I can get up and you can stand up after so many vines, you can't possibly. That's of course common knowledge. (Zoran Zivkovic: Did you hear that, monkey? Did you hear that, asshole? You didn't hear that. Dwarf. ) Of course, when you have people across the street who one day are normal to rape women in Serbia, because it's a normal thing for them to fight the next day, to threaten with hangings, and that's what their new ideologist of that yellow, big, tied, congested, strayed company that says, imagine, Serbian citizens, that he certainly can't accept the statement of their official written on Twitter about rape, but he can understand that as a man. Is it normal for anyone who has any common sense to understand it, to understand rape? That's all a man can say and write. And there's no dilemma, that's no insult. A completely ill man today can compare Hitler to what we have in Serbia. A completely sick man and I understand that. Let me just get back to the subject. My predecessor spoke of everything and everything and, of course, never told the truth. When we talk about the euro course, the euro rate during the period of the congested, committed, whatever coalition from 67 to 120 dinars in 2012. This government has held him responsible for some 117, 118 dinars for six years. We have the biggest investment in Serbia in the last six years. A stable course and all together affects that we have more pensions, in a month bigger than they have ever been in Serbia. There will be higher wages and people will live better. The SNS, led by Aleksandar Vukic, benefits Serbia's citizens. I understand why the tycoons in Serbia are angry. Because the tycoons in Serbia can no longer buy sharks, expensive jeeps, yachts, fairies and everything that characterized that bad weather from 2000 to 2012. Also, the predecessor and similar to him, their ideologist Gilas and others, along with all the powerful privatisations they have conducted and the robberies, because privatisation served nothing at the time except for the robbery and the wealth and the peaks gathered around them, have succeeded in increasing public debt compared to the period of power in Serbia in the 1990s. Now, of course, when Serbian citizens look at all of this, they take away, they add up, they see how far they came in 2012, they go bankrupt, and today they have come to a new 180,000 jobs, to a new hundred factories, to new highways, to new bridges, and, ultimately, to a better life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43364	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43365	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. So, I do not object absolutely to the previous speaker, Serbia's Filipovic, but to you for the simple reason that you should not have allowed in such a way that someone who represents either the ruling majority, or the opposition in this parliament, should address the other MP, his colleague. Can't someone in such a vulgar and rude way, whatever it is, turn around and refer to a fellow sitting across the street. I really don't want to pay general attention to examples like him, but in any case, I think you as chairman should sort of put in order and keep your dignity as long as you sit in the chair of this house. Just one thing. So, the existence of a political previous speaker in this House is about the collapse of our society. That someone like this could give himself the right, beside you alive, to say about his colleague what he said, really doesn't make sense. It's not about, let me tell you, this isn't about a political party, it's not about different opinions. He was recently president of the Republika Srpska Assembly and sat on the balcony, watching this session. You can't let people like this rose Serbia in front of their own, so let's say, brotherly assembly and send a picture into the world, and believe me, this is often seen by the region via cable television. We have a picture of ourselves like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43366	Mr Bozovicu, I tried to protect Parliament's dignity because I don't want one ideology mentioned in parliament that was the most visible, lastly, most constructive in the history of human civilization. So someone would say it's an insult to Adolf Hitler if he compared him to the SNS, and you heard it, you sat there. You didn't react as a fellow MP to give me support. Even... (Balsa Bozovic: Not in microphone. This isn't in the microphone either. Next to you is a colleague, Zivkovic, who called me only one foot and a half of you, a dog according to what was said. I'm surprised you didn't protect me as a colleague back then. You have no right to call him a copy in the address of your colleague Filipovic. He's your fellow MP and has the right to discuss. (Balsa Bozovic: Example. A, you said - an example. So, if you want any of the MPs of the SNS belonging to the Democratic Party's parliamentary club or any other party in this assembly to call or compare with Hitler, you would get a warning. So I think with everything I've done, I've been trying to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. But I can't do it myself. You have to help me with that, too. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43367	Mr. Arsic, there have been a lot of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but I will point first and foremost to Article 27's injury because I consider you to be the most responsible for all these injuries because you, as chairman, are allowing any insults to be carried out. You didn't react when they said it either, or when they said it to each other. It is equally bad for me when Mr Bozovic says - colleagues on the other hand that he is a specimen. We all know who the specimen is, it's from the DS, but none of these two. Mr Filipovic spoke for three minutes and 40 seconds, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Arsic, it is absolutely not possible. And you know it. He wasn't talking on the amendment, he was saying whether it was like a replica, whether it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. According to the amendment, if he spoke, it was also an injury, because he didn't absolutely touch the subject, nor did he touch the amendment. He talked about everything and everything and you, Mr. Arsic, should direct those former DS members to those domestic disputes and family discussions elsewhere. It's not the Assembly's place. You can't talk about the damage the DS did up to 2012 if you were a member of the DS at the time. You know, there are two Democrats here fighting over who's done more damage to Serbia. The vermin were one and the other, then, yes and now, but that's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. You have a duty to warn the speakers that they can only speak on the subject of the agenda. You as a representative of the ruling coalition obviously do not answer to talk about the law, because the law is bad and then you let everything and everything be told. Don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43368	As you explained your amendment, counterparts explained their amendments or participated in the discussions on amendments. Kola Filipovic did not get the right to reply, so he had the basis to speak for three minutes and more than the time of the parliamentary group. You can check that in the electronic parliament system on what basis he got the word. Nemanja Sarovic: The amendment to speak. He talked about the amendment, like you did about yours. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I am strictly on the amendment. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure... Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43369	Member of the 106th, Mr. Chairman. I'm telling you right in front of me not to ask for this vote. In 106, he was the member who seemed to need an MP who spoke about another member, pointing to the agenda, or holding the topic of debate. So it's regulated in Article 106(1), so I'm helping first. And secondly, the same article doesn't allow those across the street who have been throwing away those disgusting things for a little while, you're right, it's been very good here, and a lot of other things that you haven't repeated as a decent man, both for you and for us here. I will not, of course, deal more closely with those who are obviously unaware of what their policy purpose is since they lost the board of directors and supervisors of DS and Dragan Gilas. We'll leave that for another time. I want to tell you that it is unacceptable for Balsa Bozovic here to talk about dignity, that here Balsa Bozovic is talking about decency, a man who is not really a man of that name anymore. We were not approached by Balša Bozovic. We were approached by Željko Veselinović and just a few minutes before him. They also spoke the first and second time, Zeljko Veselinovic, a man who is their leader, a man who is their role model, a man who is the president, or chair of their new alliance, a man who has called brutally, inhumanally, savagely to rape the president of the Republic of Serbia, and who is clearly fascinated by the values that all together and who share with this Zeljko Veseinovic have not found fit to condemn. They didn't find it appropriate even to wonder if that's the way a man should be their leader or not, since they obviously think he should. Yesterday in the City Assembly, to inform both you and the MPs and everyone who is watching this, they did not want to share with the other committees of the City Assembly that it is unacceptable for a man like Željko Veseninović to do such a thing while doing such a thing, and he performs the function of the City Council. They thought there was nothing to argue about...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43370	Bring the end, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43371	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. They thus showed what their values are and what they consider to be right, and ultimately that they are all Zeljko Vesenovic. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43372	You don't have the right to reply since it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zivkovic. You don't want the Assembly to plead. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43373	I thank the chairman. More members of the Rules of Procedure and more speakers have been violated. I highly appreciate you giving a warning to one of the former speakers. I have to advertise Article 109 that regulates the use of swearing and offensive expression. Prior to his comparison with Hitler and Adolf Hitler's party, he used the expression that some primal evil or evil had returned to power in the right form. These objections come from an MP who is synonym for evil, for exactly the same evil in the right form when it comes to Serbia's political scene. An MP who is only known to have, at a time when he was unfortunately, seduced the state of emergency, arrested tens of thousands of citizens, none of them convicted with justice, turned black Serbia in every way, introduced a media blockade, introduced censorship into Serbia's political life, and today he resents someone for being evil in the right form. Then it was the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Bozovic, who addressed MP Filipovic in the most ugly way possible and questioned his presence in parliament. How much more of that replacement thesis? How long before one group plays some elite in Serbia and the others calls us all sorts of ugly names? What elite is that? Is that the elite that Ambassador Orlic spoke of earlier who did not dare condemn the most monstrous tweet in the recent political history of their ranks? And today he won't be convicted. Is that the elite? That's not the elite. It is a real source of evil that rejuvenates Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43374	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43375	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I don't know where to start. First of all, I must say that I came forward after my fellow Members, Zoran Zivkovic, and that all MPs had received the word before me, but I will return to this presentation by my colleagues. We've heard one sentence about his amendment. All the rest were praises he expressed about himself and how successful he was when he was in power. He was successful by not caring much about raising wages and pensions...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43376	My colleague Žarić Kovačević, please give us the first provision of the Rules of Procedure which you consider...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43377	What member? The Member of the 106th speaker may speak only of the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43378	That was it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43379	The 107th speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43380	And that was it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43381	Article 108. – The President of the National Assembly is taking care of the work at the National Assembly. So you let MP Zoran Zivkovic speak his praises here about how he was when he was in power. He was such that he took 500m euros for non-existent vineyards. He was such that he abused the prime minister's position. He was such that he was only doing privatisations and selling social capital. He was such that he owed and paid wages and pensions from it. And here today we are listening to praises and today such an MP is allowed to say that SNS MPs and that the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are lying. Ministers also presented in principle the facts that speak about how pensions will now be increased. Please return the session to your current session. Please, next time, you've given your colleagues a warning, but next time you're responding to the terrible insults and the terrible curses that the SNS MPs are here, and you can see that we're all sitting still and no one is yelling and no one is fighting and no one is talking swearing in parliament, please take care of the dignity of the National Assembly next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43382	My colleague, Žarić Kovacevic, I do not think I have violated the stated provision of the Rules of Procedure. Every messenger has the right to boast, even if it doesn't suit the truth. Here, and counterpart Zivkovic has now even said he will reintroduce the state of emergency into Serbia. I just heard him. But since I see where this debate is going, now in accordance with Article 112. I'm setting a five-minute break for the Rules of Procedure. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vesovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, after this break, we had a chance to see our two faces at a short time interval. The first face was what made me truly happy and proud when we welcomed our brothers and friends from Republika Srpska on both sides of this building, and then directly entered something that, unfortunately, marked us and characterized us for a year. I'm still standing firm in the belief that that first picture is the picture that we are, and this second picture is the picture that should never be. As far as the amendment is concerned, this amendment and you know that my opinion doesn't, I never think the amendments are pointless. So they're all according to the Rules of Procedure, we can all submit the amendment in the way we think it should be submitted. Now, whether or not to submit such or similar amendments would speed up and make the debate and improve the law if we talked about the right things, which I believe will remain a subject which, unfortunately, seems difficult to get an answer. I don't understand why you haven't accepted this amendment, because if unfortunately Mr. Sarcevic isn't here, the question here is the score, but from the point of view of the Serbian language, believe it's more correct. That's what people who do this seriously told us. From the law we're discussing now, we've learned for the time being that it's temporary four years, that the funding for raising pensions will be provided from the budget, which is usually good, but it's not good that we're going to do it the way you want to, but I'm going to keep talking, so I'm not wasting my time right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43385	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43386	Mr. Arsic, I must once again point out that you have violated several members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You're just a moment, when you set a break, you're invited to Article 112, I'll quote it. He says: “If the president of the National Assembly cannot hold the session regularly, he will set a break until the order is established. “ You, Mr. Arsic, at your disposal, as regular measures to maintain order at the session, have several different measures. This is a measure of warning, so it is a different warning, and a third warning, a taking away of words, a measure of distance from the session. These are all measures to maintain order in the session that you must use previously, so if you fail to maintain order, then only then do you get the right to set a break until that order is established. You didn't do it. You didn't say the measures, there was no need, there were no incidents here, there was a debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There was a debate that you allowed. You haven't said a single moment – Here, I broke the Rules of Procedure five times, so I'm setting a break for it. So, in my view, there was absolutely no reason to interrupt. But that's where we come into another problem. You have set a five-minute break, and if you set a five-minute break, the MPs of the five minutes can go to do whatever else comes to mind. You continued the session after three minutes and 50 seconds. If you want to be precise, here I was measuring with a stopwatch, three minutes and 50 seconds and 85 hundredths, according to my measurement, but certainly less than four minutes and less than five minutes. You can't start a session when you think about it. You can also schedule it at 10:00, so you can start at 9:00, or start the day before. Is it a minute, five minutes or five hours, it doesn't matter. There's something called the time for which the session is scheduled. Before that time, you have no right to continue your session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43387	Coli Sarovic, I have set a break in accordance with Article 112 just to avoid giving notices, taking words or disfellowshippings from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43388	You're here to do business, not avoid anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43389	And I didn't know that you, as a People's MP, supported such measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43390	No, I don't, especially since I'm on target most of the time, but you're obliged to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you can't do what you want. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43391	I'll tell you something else, colleague Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43392	I'm not a colleague of Sarcevic, Mr. Arsic, you're obviously distracted today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43393	Comrade Sarovic, just to tell you, you've also now broken the Rules of Procedure, looking at my seconds and minutes, you've been talking for about three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43394	It's not your seconds, it's the National Assembly's seconds, you're not the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43395	I didn't say that, I don't really understand you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43396	You said I was looking at your seconds. What are yours? Those are the seconds of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43397	The time you were entitled to injure the Rules of Procedure, right, is two minutes. You spoke three.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43398	I wasn't looking at your seconds, those are the seconds of this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43399	Comrade Sarovic, stop being a DS lawyer, they know how to defend themselves. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MPplatmir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43400	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which amends the applicable Article 12 of the Law. The amendment also proposes to delete point 1 in Article 12 of the applicable law, because it is a declarative content. I would take the opportunity to say that these amendments and additions to the PIO Act are another step in the initial reform of the pension system. What is important is that the pension system is not necessary and cannot be at the expense of pensioners who have earned pensions from whom they can live, to heal, to carry out the third period, in which they are located, in as optimal material conditions as possible. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that our pension system, which is a classic mandatory insurance system, is also based on the principle of solidarity, which means that current employees provide a significant part of their pensions to current pensioners with their PIO contributions. Unfortunately, the relationship between employees and pensioners is still not enough for the PIO Fund to serve pensions on its own. The missing pension funds shall be provided from the Republic's budget. So, pensioners have received their pensions regularly so far, but this time, the government has provided conditions for abolishing pension cuts thanks to the budget surplus and the economic stability achieved, which was introduced four years ago as a necessary measure because of the budget balance found. This law is, as we heard in the debate, the basis for further increasing pensions and stabilising the pension fund. But we all know that the basic condition for even higher pensions is to increase the number of employees. What's good news is that the development policy of our government in the last four years has produced good results, that there is an increase in capital and other investment, that an increasing number of foreign investors are interested in investment in our country, and not only in the textile industry, and in IT technology, in agriculture and in many jobs, but also in the basic branches of our industry, to mention only Bor and Želizar Smederevo, where our strategic partners are Chinese companies. Of course, many other sides and domestic investment contribute to a constant increase in employment rates, which is also the only sound basis for further pension growth and changes in the number of employees and number of pensioners. At present, 1.5% of pensioners are coming to one employee. This relationship is changing for the benefit of both pensioners and employees. What I want to point out is that our pensioners, our oldest population, have suffered a significant part of the burden of economic reforms over the past years, which were necessary to bring Serbia's economy back to life and make up for the empty walks and consequences of illegal privatisations and the acquisition of social and state property, in simple words, for small money. It also impoverished the economy and citizens who spent the night out of work for privatisation and experienced the support of their old parents, pensioners, and their children. Fortunately, this period is behind us and I believe that the Government will, with its further measures, as well as the pension fund, with its work and its business policy, succeed in providing our oldest citizens with a decent third-century. Through the realisation of large investment and infrastructure projects, it is right to expect even more intensive economic development of our country through an increase in the number of employees, and thus through the financial strengthening of the PIO Fund, which will be able to serve an even greater volume of pensions. The SPS parliamentary group will support the amendment and supplementation of the proposed laws in the voting day, as well as the proposal for international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43401	In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43402	We asked to delete this member, Mr. Minister, because we think the whole solution to how pensions are coordinated is not good, and I'd say this is an ad hoc law that creates a huge amount of uncertainty with pensioners. From not only political will, but the current economic moment will depend on the amount of pensions in the future, and that is not good, and how hypocritical on the other hand the fact that such an increase index is not in line with what you boast. If every day we hear from Aleksandr Vucic, Anna Brnabic, from you, from the new finance minister, from the MPs of the SNS, that we have great progress in society, GDP growth, job creation, excellent public budget filling. How is it possible, then, that pensioners do not participate in this relationship? Isn't that unfair to the pensioners? So when it's been hard, well, come on now we're going to rely on you, we're going to take that part, which is irreversible, and now that it's supposed to be such results, you're resorting to only at the moment that you want it to, you're going to increase your pensions, not the way it's going to guarantee it in the future. When the government changes, if these are cost prices for a little bit, whether it's a growth in average earnings, you just have to listen to what we've been telling you from the beginning. It's impossible, Mr. Minister, for us to have a fair society and for the highest pension to be 7.5 times the lowest. You're talking about the average, and you just said it was 211 euros, and now I don't have time to give you a digression as much as it cost, to start with basic life supplies, over drugs, a few years ago and now, but start from now, you're only getting 14,300 dinars in Serbia, not 211 euros. So what are we going to offer these citizens as a solution? There's money in the current moment, so we'll give you a spoon, and for the future, no one will promise them anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43403	By amendment, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43404	I'm sorry, the chairman, the replica, since the SNS was mentioned. So, the SNS that runs the government of the Republic of Serbia in most of its ministers has been in favour of growing economic, economic activities for the very reason to solve the problems of the past. In these problems, she urged all economic actors, but she also urged pensioners and trade unions when it came to implementing economic reforms, because if it hadn't done so, they couldn't even implement those economic reforms. When we talk today about the average pension, it is 228 euros, and 210 euros and 211 were 2009 and then less and less in 2010 and 2011. It is also the size and strength of the political platform that has said it will face the problems that have arisen from the past, solve these problems and simply extract economic activities from Serbia from 3.1%, when it was 2012, to reach 4.9% of economic growth. It was not easy and we were extremely responsible and honest not only with the pensioners, but with all the citizens of Serbia, and that is why we have these results today. Is that enough? Of course he's not and of course we're not happy, but this is a good start that in the future we're all really happy about, not just the level of pensions, but the level of pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43405	Thank you. By amendment from my colleague? (Natasa Jovanovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Natasa Jovanovic: She misread me. ( ) You were well interpreted by your colleague. (Natasa Jovanovic: No. ) Col. Tomic only provided statistics. (Natasa Jovanovic: That's not true. It is. By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43406	Let's, first of all, talk to the pensioners. These stories about average salaries, about average pensions, it's so far from real life and from what really is the state of Serbia. If only 16 pensions in Serbia are more than 106, and I don't know how many, they go on average, but over 260,000 pensioners receive a pension of 14,000 dinars. That's the problem, gentlemen dear, and don't keep distracting the average salary of this size, the average pension of that kind. We repeat it has nothing to do with real life and reality. One more thing, since our colleague insists on telling us that I don't know how much GDP growth is, what is the average salary, what is the surplus, etc. and we need – to trust mothers, to trust ministers, if any surplus occurs, that will really increase pensions for pensioners. I ask first of all Minister Djordjevic to tell the pensioners today, now, this moment, when will the first time pensions will be harmonised and in what way? That's a question you don't have an answer to. So we're saying that you're passing a law that could never increase your pensions again. One more thing, you're acting, what happens if you accidentally leave power once? It remains this law and imagine with some plot, God forbid, circumstances come again, let's say Djelic or Dinkic for the Minister, the citizens of this country can, for a little while have been with you, should they believe that they will pay? Now I ask you, we don't trust you, we don't trust them either, but we ask you, do you trust anyone who might come after you? As far as we're concerned, and when a Serbian radical becomes a minister, we won't accept a law like this because it can't be this serious a matter of one man or ten people in the government. It can't simply have to write in law when pensions are harmonised and based on what criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43407	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was a witness when many governments proposed laws concerning pensions and who were populistly reportedly due to pensioners' concerns demanded that it be brought into line with consumer prices, etc. etc. It was the easiest thing for these governments and the congregation majority to support the same government at the time, because they could sell out state property and pay out pensions from there. They could owe the country as they did and from there they could pay their pensions. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic casts. I really can't do this kind of unarticulated man. Really.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43409	Continue, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43410	Furthermore, several times facts and exact data were presented as to how realistic the increase was and how they increased pensions by 2012. At two three percent raises in the nominal amount, they had an inflation of 10, 12, and even 16%, so the pension debt was actually less. I am also surprised by their current concern for pensioners because they did not coordinate military pensions according to the law as planned, but left those differences to be paid by the government of Aleksandr Vukic, when he became Prime Minister. There's one more thing I'd like to say to the big people. Turn to yourself and your politics. Pensions were reduced in 2014 not to take someone away, but to be able to pay them off. No one stole a dime from those savings. No matter how hard you get in there, you can't seriously suspect that you're setting it up. Afterwards, the 2016 elections in all political parties that did not participate in measures and did not support fiscal consolidation measures experienced a debacle in those elections. Those most affected by the law supported the SNS and the coalition that then led the government of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the results we had in the elections. These amendments and amendments to the laws provide for one big commitment to the government of the Republic of Serbia, because anyone who wants to work for the benefit of citizens and therefore to be rewarded with votes in the elections will have to take care of the growth of gross products in the Republic of Serbia, the growth of the number of employees in the Republic of Serbia, the growth of their earnings in the Republic of Serbia, because the funds from which pensions are paid out of taxes and contributions to profits, not loans and the sale of assets. I guess one day Mr. Sarovic will be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43411	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, right to replication. I apologize to my colleague Sarovic, your colleague Natasa Jovanovic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, takes precedence over the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43412	At the last moment, he pronounced Arsic's last name as a colleague, Sarovic, and all the time he talked about the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS MP, deliberately avoiding getting a replica, then I have to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, first because of the fact that they did not warn him when he left the presidency to report and on what basis he appeared. And when he was already talking about the amendment that is under way, I can freely say that I am not against it, like no MP of the SRS, which would not prevent it from us having a broad debate here, that we do not have such restrictions and that we can exchange arguments, but since it was obviously not the intention of fellow Arsic, that we are exchanging arguments, but that he is exclusively saying something that he wants to convince the citizens of Serbia, and by insufficient argument, I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, that all of what he said is true in one part, when it is said that they took responsibility in 2014, you from the SNS and the new government after leaving this robbery yellow company. It's 2018, so don't you all brag about having a fantastic budget charge, growth in the economy, and then give pensioners pensioners according to it. Now, you, like your second colleague earlier, want to manipulate always the current moment, so in a year and a half of parliamentary elections, here, then we can, financially, we'll give you something on a spoon. That's not a good model. The Serbian Radical Party, we address Serbia's pensioners, requires that there be a realistic model that will guarantee that they will live a decent man's life and have an increase in pensions in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43413	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic casts. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43414	My colleague Marinkovic, I believe that you should have acted in accordance with Article 106(2) while I had my amendment. The Rules of Procedure, that no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for by the Rules of Procedure. The next position - during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search is not allowed to throw away, i.e. the interference of speakers in other ways, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. Then you should have, in accordance with Article 109, applied that provision. Because Mr. Sarovic wasn't throwing, he was screaming, and it's impossible that you didn't hear him, with the intention of interrupting me, making it difficult for me to discuss and defocus, which he failed. Because he doesn't understand things, it's not my problem, it's his problem, let him sit down, listen, he'll learn sometime. I want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43415	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, but my colleague Sarovic is such a temperament. I want to be tolerated, so... Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? All right, appeal to all our colleagues not to interrupt each other, if that's possible. Thank you. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43416	Indeed, Mr. Marinkovic, I must admit that Mr. Arsic did and spoke difficultly and did seem deconcentrated, but the right to tell you, he always seems to me, I thought it was part of his style, part of some of his charm, that he was trying to make an impression like that in public, and that he really has tremendous intellectual efforts to respond, he seems to me that way. Of course, I have nothing against it, but there is another problem. The problem is that Mr. Arsic is telling the truth. The problem is that it is not known whether Mr. Arsic speaks as a radical or says it as a progressive, as he spoke about different periods, and the ideology and politics of the two parties are completely different. You know, if you're still talking about how the "yellows" robbed this, robbed it, so the public knows, I threw it and said, "well, you must have put them all in jail for it now." Of course you're not anybody. Instead of prisons, you put them in your ranks. Well, more representatives and members of prominent DS officials are in the SNS than is left in the DS. What are you talking about? That's true. You may be in pain. A few days ago, Sinisha Mali points out, says – I was never a member of DS. Well, who cares if you were a member? You are the essence of this policy, as Anna Brnabic today is the essence of your policy. Who cares if she's a formal member of your party or not? That's what's the point, and you're running away from it. Don't hide behind the Rules of Procedure, you're so powerful, you're so strong, you have citizens' support, you say that the pensioners voted for you. Well, how are you not ashamed? How do you know who the pensioners voted for? Have you heard of the secrecy of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43417	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43418	First Article 104, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name or name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. I just mentioned Mr. Sarčević. I haven't said anything negative in any part, and I don't know what basis he's got a replica. Is because he was throwing maybe. If that's why, it's because of his temper, but it's none of my business, it's absolutely none of my business. All of us here have different temperaments, so are we going to adapt to different temperaments or order in the work of the National Assembly? I don't want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day. Now I would ask for the right to reply because in the previous discussion, I have been mentioned several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43419	You have the right to reply, but before that, Aleksandra Tomic, as an authorised representative, came forward. It has an advantage, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43420	Thank you, Chairman. To mention the SNS is a replica. It is interesting that Mr. Sarovic notices Mr. Arsic's charm, not some others in this assembly hall. As for the words spoken on his part, those who were there until 2012, in the SNS, so I don't know how to explain what they were in the ranks of the same not only until 2012, but also until 2014, when Pajtic led the AP Vojvodina and sat on boards and made a congregation majority. It is interesting not to ask the question here what has been done for Serbia, not only by members of the SNS, but also by people who are not members of any party and the question is not why we have these results and what has been given by who, by his personal contribution and his participation in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also by what some party's personal and political interests are, in fact, showing what you mean when you're involved in politics. You deal with yourself, your personal positions, your personal not even politics, but the blackmailing of all those factors that you can benefit from and promote your party that has long lost the confidence of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43421	Thank you, colleague Tomic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43422	Mrs. Tomic, I'd really like to have something to say to you very cleverly, but this kind of exposure is hard to answer. You don't know what you're saying yourself, because how else do you say we're blackmailing someone...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43423	Comrade Sarovic, which member did I break?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43424	I'm talking about Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly, and that no direct address is allowed at the session. So, the lady spoke directly to me, told me about some kind of charm. Did I need her charm to notice, so now she's complaining, I really don't know. But she talked about more serious things. She was talking about blackmailing someone. Let's see who's who. I'm completely open to it. Here, you're strong, you've got power, you've got everything at your disposal, let's see. Well, is it possible that someone from the opposition can blackmail you, so powerful, so powerful, so smart, so professional? Is that possible? I don't think so. You know, a man should have enough brains, enough wisdom, even knowing when he lost some political struggle, and sometimes you insist, it's not enough that you lost, but you want to keep going. You have nothing to discuss with me. I do what I say, behind those words I stand. I didn't insult anyone. Your colleague complained that he was speaking difficultly and he was distracted, and I admitted to him that he was acting the same way to me. What's so controversial about that? Is that an insult? Of course not. It is my right as an MP to have such an opinion and to experience it as such. I didn't say any of the insults, and you try, ma'am or missy, to stick to the law and if you have any argument to bring it out then, and regarding the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43425	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that my colleagues cannot understand, who do not support this government, that what citizens measure in the election results, the results of the authorities, and that based on those results that some government had, is determined and what result they will have in the elections. And there's no marketing trick there before the election of what's gonna happen. For example, we solved the problem of Sartida after the 2016 elections, and we were able to solve it before the election. No, we settled it later. We wanted to get into an election campaign with clean bills and beat you all together. And we won. Can you hide that 180km of highways have been built in Serbia in the past four or five years? No, I don't. Can you hide how many paths have been reconstructed? No, I don't. Can you trick people who started working for the first time, and there are several hundred thousand? No, I don't. You can't. That's your problem. And when you stand up and talk about pensioners, no one's talking about how you're finally gonna secure those pensions. Is it wars? The sanctions? With what? Praise? Say it again. Well, I guess pensions and pension funds are full of what someone has to do, not just talk and philosophy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43427	Thank you, colleague Arsic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43428	Article 27, Chairman. You are obliged to implement the Rules of Procedure in the work when someone advertises the Rules of Procedure and calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and before that, it was practically the subject of a replica and all the speakers after it also had a replica, and you, as the chairman, are being cast out the principle of breach of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the presentation of the previous speaker from the opposition, who wants to essentially come to some public appearances here, in order to demean anyone, whether an individual or an entire parliamentary group. So I ask you, the chairman, to really take care of it and to stop such exposure at some point, because it does not contribute to the constructive work of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43429	Thank you, colleague Tomic. You know, I'm also avoiding interrupting anyone, so that the debate can run and everyone has equal time and space to say what they have, but now that we're completely off the subject, I suggest we move on. I have no doubt that Ruzica Nikolic will discuss the subject of the agenda on the next amendment. Thank you. So the MPs Ružica Nikolic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Rose Nikolic, please. Thank you, Mr. Sarovic, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43430	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. So now I have to talk about the amendment and be on the subject, because that's what you said. The amendment that we have made to this member of the law applies to Article 12 of the existing law and intervenes in paragraph 1 where we are seeking to delete this position. In the previous discussion, our criticism focused on how pensions are coordinated, as pensions are planned to be harmonised in a manner established by the rules governing the budget and the budget system, to achieve the financial sustainability of the pension system. This means that by means of this formulation, the government's authority to decide on pension coordination becomes permanent. We believe that the harmonisation of pensions must depend on the real state of society, on the social gross product, and only then is it coordinated. It's the only way to control it. One of the changes you say is that the key change in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is the abolition of pension cuts and that the October pension that is paid in November will be increased, i.e. that pensioners will receive it with a certain increase, so I would ask the minister whether the abolition of the law that has violated the constitution guarantees the right to retire, will you repay to the pensioners what you have wrongly taken away from them and whether you are aware that pensioners can request the protection of their rights and before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, if they do not exercise their right before domestic courts?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43431	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43432	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Let's get back to the discussion, despite all attempts by the ruling coalition MPs to direct the discussion to another side. I think this is a good time to appeal to the ministers at last, there is Mr. Djordjevic, there is occasionally Mr. Sarcevic, in a pleasant conversation with his associates and vice versa, as we hear. So I would point out the fact that the ministers today have not looked back and answered one more time, here we have been discussing here for more than two hours. We have heard a little bit of an appeal from representatives of the ruling coalition to ban the opposition from having public appearances here, because, my God, it says, we are talking to the public, so we would like some political points, so it says - we are attacking power, and it is truly incomprehensible for parliamentary life. Here, from your point of view, it's completely incomprehensible, but you, as chairman, were obliged to warn the lady or the lady and to tell her that this is actually what parliament originally serves. Now, we are asking the ministers first and foremost, because it is quite clear that these representatives of the ruling coalition in the parliamentary benches are not asking us to answer the questions we have asked. The first question is, what are you going to do and how are you going to damage pensioners who are receiving reduced pensions in previous years? Those are rights acquired. Retirement isn't social giving, it's not charity, and don't keep setting yourself up like it's you that depends on whether someone gets what they earn during their working life. So how are you going to damage them? Now that you're going to partially increase your pensions isn't enough and it can't erase everything you've taken from them over the past few years. Many are the ways in which pensioners are taken, and you use a lot of different kinds of demagogy, and you say, it will be bigger than it was. Well, it's realistic that after every increase it's gonna be. But let's see what's up with the key stuff. Why won't it harmonize with the price hike, why is it left to the government, that the government itself determines when pensions will increase and that you will again be those who are God-given and who will give something to the citizens. Not given by any minister, not given by the Prime Minister, not given by the President of the Republic. People have earned it. It is your duty to fulfill and it is every government's duty to provide funds. No one should be grateful to you, I guess, people, it's perfectly normal! What are the other basic human and civil rights that you expect future citizens of Serbia to be grateful for? Because we should be grateful for the freedom of movement? Here, the citizens of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija don't have that either. Do they have the right to live in their own country? They do. Will he have it in a month or two or three? And that's the question. For freedom of speech? Should we also be grateful for that right? Did you give it? You're not giving us anything. We are not grateful to you, nor do we expect you to establish such a right for us. They're acquired rights, they're constitutional rights, they're basic human rights. So wake up, Minister, if you want a serious and reasoned discussion, come on, finally get involved. Or, perhaps, Mr. Marinkovic, should we get those cell phone jammers? I think it would have a big impact on the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43433	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Thank you for your discussion. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43434	I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law which I propose to delete, in the existing Article 12, paragraph 2. With this amendment, which I have submitted, and also with all the other amendments submitted by the SRS MPs, we want to achieve a more precise technical arrangement of the bill's proposal, and the possibility that, through this debate on amendments, we will once again draw the attention of the government's representatives and the ruling majority that pensions are extremely small, and that the increase in pensions is insufficient. The situation is currently such that the lowest pension in Serbia is around 14300 dinars, while for farmers, the amount is just over 11,000. My question to the minister, but to the representatives of the ruling majority is -- could you survive a month with 14.300 or could you not give God 11,000 dinars? With that money, I need to not talk about any luxury now, pay minimum bills, buy food and basics for personal hygiene. Is it possible to do that with 14,300 dinars? Here, to tell you the truth, I couldn't. Where I live, in New Belgrade, only bills I have to pay monthly are more than that amount. And I believe there are a lot of pensioners who, unfortunately, receive this low pension, and who also have too many bills. And the question is, what are these pensioners supposed to do now, should they sell their apartments under the old days and move to live in some of the boardrooms so they can make it through the moon with 14,300 dinars? And I'll just remind you that unlike us junior pensioners, there's another cost that can't be solved, and that's the cost of medication, because unfortunately not all drugs can be obtained on prescription or all checks can be carried out in state practice because of too many lines. There is a high divorce between the largest pensions of over 100,000 dinars and the smallest of 14.300 dinars. During this pension increase, it was necessary to make sure that those minimum pensions were increased to a greater extent, in order to make a percentage increase compared to the largest pensions. I know now you're gonna say there's no money for a bigger increase and how you did everything you could. Think about how much money would be in the budget that you could spend on raising pensions if you were to abolish the numerous unnecessary government agencies that work, and they didn't serve anything except that your staff received salaries and how much money would be in the budget if you really did fight crime and corruption that you've been talking about for years and took away the property of the tycoons you were fighting, unfortunately only in the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43435	Thank you, colleague Belacic. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43436	In addition to the government's well-established practice of uniting the laws for discussion, we have here today a novelty, which is to unify the reasons for not accepting our amendments, but now I'm going to get something on the subject. All previous attempts at reform along with this current bill proposal, I mean amendments and additions to the 2002, 2003, 2005, 2010 and 2014 laws, should be seen as the beginning of a possible serious reform of pension insurance. The criteria for calculating height and early retirement should also be developed for insurance undertakings whose internship is considered to be a well-favourable working time or with an increased duration. Most of the laws are proposed by the government by force, out of necessity, under the burden of impose and morality, whether it is about the deadlines or the standards pursued by the EU. When it comes to this law, i.e. The bill seems to me that the government is doing this on its own for the first time because there are a lot of pensioners waiting to be viewed not only restrictively. The third century must not be a period of restrictions of all species, whether biological, social, cultural and all others. It is good that you abolish this previous unconstitutional law, but who will compensate for the burden of the four-year balance of pension reform submitted exclusively by those to whom it was acquired the right and who regularly paid all the contributions. This should not be treated as some kind of gift to the pensioners, but rather as a acquired right that has been denied them and is now returning. The same one he took, the same one he had to pay back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43437	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here's a colleague of Damjanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43438	Dear colleagues, what we discussed on Friday and Monday, here is today when the amendments finally came and it is, I will again by who knows which time I repeat that the ruling majority of pensioners who were denied constitutionally guaranteed rights in 2014 called "investors". It is likely that these "investors" pensioners were bigger than any other investor who arrived in Serbia, but now the question is raised, as is any investor who finishes a certain job, expected a certain income. If it is said that investors from 2014, by violent means, do not ask them, and by promising that there will be no investors, the funds have been kidnapped and funds invested, for example, on the porn walls on Corridor 10, in the makeup of Zorana Mihajlovic, minister, in the mast, in a New Year's light that has already started to be placed on Belgrade and costs 340 million, in a variety of scattered fountains. We have to admit, now the play list is changing more often than it was before. The question arises, on the other hand, when Minister Nedimovic is there and says we are helping agriculture, the question arises – what about agricultural pensions? Do those who praise this law and praise their investors and thank them for one of the most brutal, most disgusting, cynical ways, know what pensions agricultural, agricultural pensions are? Do they know the age of people dealing with agriculture in Serbia? By buying them that price this year and raspberries and blackberries and apples and all agricultural products you literally mutilated, the pension is no more than 12,000, gentlemen. Ten to 12 thousand dinars. Do you ever wonder if anyone can live off the funds you've made possible for your investors? To begin with, return what you have taken away from “investors”. Bring the law exactly in accordance with how many pensions they will receive and by which model you will pay, and therefore the pensioners will be grateful to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43439	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43440	Ministers, a large number of pensioners say from the goodness of the DOS regime, from Zoran Djindjic, from Zoran Zivkovic and finally from Boris Tadic and the current regime shoots them. Of course, not everyone says that, and you say very often to pensioners that they had something against this kind of reform of the pension system, they wouldn't vote, but I have to remind you, dear colleagues, if you're watching four people on the street, only one voted for this regime. One of them voted for someone else, and two of them didn't go out to vote at all. It's a picture. But in 2014, you didn't even ask the pensioners if you wanted to take what was theirs. Well, of course, they'll vote the moment the SRS takes responsibility for the citizens of Serbia, then they'll be better off, for sure. What you don't have, you don't predict the formula, how and how you're going to coordinate or increase pensions, it's very dangerous. You want to continue with pensions, with something acquired and what the constitutional category you trade. How and when? Well, when you need it. Mr. Djordjevic, there is no reform of the pension system without reform of the commitment to profit. I told you, but you didn't do anything. Taxes and contributions to employees are about 61%, taxes and contributions to employers 71%. How do we expect to reform the pension system if we don't agree? Where's this going? To be honest, I think you've reduced the number of gray economies, not because you're efficient enough, you say very often -- you don't have enough inspectors. You do not have enough inspectors to protect the rights of Serbian citizens, but that is why you have enough inspectors to charge fines for Serbian citizens. Come on, make a comprehensive reform, then I'm sure it'll be better. The fact that you read, Mr. Djordjevic, was what the average pensions were, so you said 209, 208, 211, 228. Yes, now you have 228, and at the time of Mirko Cvetkovic 209, although that is a small difference, that in itself means nothing. The issue is the conditions of the lives of Serbian citizens in those eight years. That's one thing. There's one more thing I need to know. My colleagues in the U.S.S. have been talking about how much the lowest pensions are, how much the farmers' pensions are. Do you know that the pensions of farmers, amounting to around 11,000, that they are burdened by the heavy obligations paid directly by the tax administrations to them by a third and so small and low pensions? Don't worry about it at all. You're just ready to say how many citizens came out and voted. Well, they voted some under threat and under pressure, some out of pure love for SNS policy, I won't argue with that, but ask yourself how many there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43441	Thank you, colleague Perich. Bosko Obradovic has a word, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43442	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens, God helps everyone, I would like to fully support the above-mentioned amendment of Honorary counterpart Peric and to relate to several important things regarding the complete amendments, which were behind which they stood, of course, and Dveri. I think the key information here is that 150,000 citizens of Serbia, who are users of this basic acquired property rights as pensioners, died in the meantime before this final abolition of the Interim Retirement Law occurred. These people have not welcomed this moment and this opportunity to see some perspective as you say with this law. Will their families ever be compensated for what has been taken from them in those last years of their lives? So that's the dilemma that I raised at the beginning of this story extremely constructively towards all of you, not starting to question this law. Yes, we support, it is right to abolish this bad law of temporary retirement. Yes, it's good to get pensions back and increase them as much as possible, but one thing is very bad, which is the government, or the state, does not admit that it still took something away from the pensioners, which is their Constitution guaranteed the right, or property. She took away a share of their 850m-euro pensions and is now not ready to admit that she took it away and that it should be returned in some way. You wouldn't mind pensioners, who aren't arrogant and rude, if you'd said we don't have to go back at this point, but we have an idea how we're going to get it back to you in the next few years. Well, for example, if we took four years away from the pensioners, i.e. If you've been taking away your pensioners for four years, the Davers have been against it since the beginning, you can pay them back for the next four years. People would take it and say it's fair. It looks like, you know, you rob someone, you take some money out of his pocket, and then you come and say, "Here, I'd like to get back together and hope that our relationship will be better in the future, and you don't give back what you've robbed him." Well, how do you expect your relationship with our oldest population to be better? How especially do you expect this, if I remind you of SNS President Aleksandr Vukic's statement of 10 March 2014, which reads: "SNS President Aleksandar Vukic said he guarantees that acquired pensioners' rights will not be reduced. It's better off our backs to get off than to touch the acquired pensioners' rights, but I won't let retirement touch it. If we touched those rights, we would not only create a problem for the pensioners, but also for the state. “ In a way, I agree with what Alexander Vukic said four years ago. I absolutely agree with Alexander Vukic before the election, but I have a problem with Alexander Vukic after the election, because he agreed with his voters and did exactly the opposite by reducing pensions as the first decision when he came to power as Prime Minister in 2014 after the election. So, you put yourself in the pensioner's shoes now, how can he trust you after all? You double-crossed him once, once you robbed him, now you convince him it'll be better, but you don't pay him back the money you took away. Beware, if you had provided for this law to return to what was taken from them, everyone would have said to me, "Well done, that is the right thing." On the other hand, you provided for this law to coordinate pensions on a regular annual basis in line with the growth of living costs. If the government has any additional resources in its budget, feel free to give the 13th pension to pensioners, they will not object, but do not question regular pension coordination with the cost of living, which you question in this law. And you return to the government and your ruling majority in the Assembly the possibility of reducing or increasing pensions whenever they want. I'm sorry, you have no right to do that. This is a constitutionally guaranteed right, i.e. the property of our oldest citizens. You have no right to play with it. So that's the problem I'm seeing here and I need to get my attention again. And all our amendments and all our discussions all these days are directed in that direction – why did you not foresee to return what you took? It's a very simple question. Why didn't you predict to return what you took? You need to get back what you took from the pensioners, that's the elemental thing. I do not see what is disputed that all together as the government and the opposition about it agree and say – here, we vote together for what has been taken away from the pensioners, and let those who believe it should have been taken away and voted for you and those who believe that it should never have been taken away and voted for us from the opposition. But what's for sure, which I guess we shouldn't argue about here, is that they need to get back what's been taken away from them and that they need to be able to adjust regularly at the annual level with the cost of living. I repeat again, if your budget is so good and stable, and you have filled it by taking away pensioners, which you have reduced wages, which you have raised taxes, taxes and excise taxes, which we have the most expensive fuel in Europe. Well, it's a great idea to fill the budget, rob your own citizens. But if your budget is already so stable, why don't we give people back what's been taken from them? What's stopping you, what's the problem? Or will you still give that money to foreign investors who come here and use our people as cheap labour? That's the central question. We're not really arguing here about anything else. We can leave aside whether this should or should not have been done. You say – we should, we say – you shouldn't. Now here's the essential question when are people going to get their money back? It's a question of all the questions. Let me, I have one big and important obligation to just draw attention to ministers, who may be a little bit oblivious to phones and worry about other concerns at the moment, to pay attention to the topic of agricultural pensioners and agricultural pensions. It's an extremely dramatic topic. I just want to face you with a few details and, believe me, you're going to find out how dramatic that is. Farmers in Serbia owe insurance, pension and disability insurance, PIO Fund 184 billion dinars. The large number of farmers their debt to the PIO fund is greater than the value of their holdings. Next problem. Once you sign up for a PIO fund as a farm pensioner, you can't take off, or drop out, or give up that application if you're not able to pay for it, and your debts are just growing and simply, you become over-indebted. Will you eventually send these public executioners to take away their property by village, to take away their homes and land to collect this from the PIO Fund? What's the idea? Or you're going to be constructive and you're going to write people off these debts, because this is simply not real people. You know what else isn't real? That retirement is the same to the one who's been paying 15 years and the one who's been paying 40 years. You know what else isn't real? If the basis for paying off that pension, watch out for this information, this is just amazing, that the basis of all of this is the same for those who have 500 acres and for those who have half a hectare. It doesn't make sense that they're making the same payment to the PIO fund. Of course, it's already mentioned, and it should be pointed out again, that this agricultural pension is below social aid, it's 11,000 dinars. What's that? Who can live with it and work with it? If this is related to the scandalous consequences of the Family Financial Support Act with children where you discriminated against women entrepreneurs living in the country and dealing with agriculture, they have an obligation to have insurance for at least 24 months in order to make a maternity leave compensation at all, and for all other women it is 18 months back. Wait, what are women from villages worse than all the other women in Serbia? What would be their longer term if they had to be secured in order to get maternity benefits in the first place? Those aren't logical things. Then how do we expect to improve the country and improve agriculture? How many times have the ministers, you've changed ten agriculture ministers, promised a solution to this issue? You haven't solved it with seven years of this authority, and you don't solve it with this proposal to amend and supplement the existing law. The only solution I see here is that all those who are unable to pay these debts, those debts are written off and, of course, their internship doesn't count for that period, it's not questionable. So you have to understand this category of population, it's a huge category of population in Serbia, you have to pay a little more attention to agriculture and the village. Just imagine how a Serbian peasant feels this year when absolutely all agricultural products fell at the cost of unsustainable farming in Serbia. Imagine what you can hear today from a Serbian peasant, that there is no point in farming in Serbia anymore. So I ask the question – where in the world does it make sense to deal with agriculture, if it doesn't make sense to deal with agriculture in Serbia, this God-given country, with such beauty and natural wealth? True, you're selling it out now, so you sold these 17,000 acres of PKK because it's a scandal and a crime against the economic interest of this people, no one in the world has done it. No one would sell their water, their land and their mines. It should be our resource for our domestic economic development and the development of our economy and agriculture, not for foreigners to manage, but for that to be another topic. What I finally want to draw your attention to here, you have a moral obligation, if you've already burdened the pensioners, not tycoons, if you've already burdened our oldest citizens, not foreign banks that earn extra profits and skins from the back of Serbian citizens, so if you've already burdened those who have worked their whole lives so that we can live normally today, and not charge taxes to those who don't pay taxes and work on black, then I guess it would be a turn to give them back what you took from them. You don't have the answer to that question. All the other answers you'll be propagandaly trying to explain here, there's more of you, so you're hugging, so you pick up and hang up what we're talking about, but you can't answer one very simple question – when are you going to pay the pensioners back the money you've taken from them for these four years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43443	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. According to Businessman Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43444	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 but also Article 109. So, we've been listening to all sorts of things from the previous speaker, Gilas's stalker, sorry, Gilas' striker, but I think you had to react when he said that Alexander Vukic was lying. Alexander Vukic did not lie, nor did he ever lie in his political career, on the contrary, he fulfilled all the promises he had promised. One of the promises was that when we stabilise the state of public finances, when we stabilise the PIO Fund, pensions will be, or pension cuts will be lifted. Here, we just did it, that's exactly what we're doing, and that's one of the promises we made. We've been listening to Alexander Vukic fail the voters. Don't worry, just don't worry about the SNS voters and about the voters of Alexander Vukic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43445	Talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43446	So you're the ones who let down your promise to your voters. How many voters of your fake Patriotic organisation Dvori supports your Alliance for Serbia, your entry into the Alliance for Serbia? Do your messengers support that? Do members of your party's presidency support? So you're the ones who manipulate all the time, who manipulated your voters. Don't worry, the support of Alexander Wolfich is never stronger. In recent political history, there was no politician who enjoyed greater support from the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43447	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. I ask the People’s MPs not to address other MPs directly. The word is made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43448	The chairman, Member of 108, as regards order at the National Assembly sessions and member 109 on the reminder. Alexander Vukic and the government didn't take anything from the pensioners. On the contrary, they returned everything to them, gave them back serious economic security, gave them back serious economic growth to 3% from those minus 3% we had at the time of government...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43449	What did I break here?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43450	You were supposed to give a warning to Article 109. That's what I've already told you to stop the exposure, because no one here has ever taken anything. It's a malicious bribery. Security is restored, economic growth is returned to 3%, employment is restored to one decent level, investors are returned to the country and general security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is restored. Speaking of returning, we have a proposal to get something back to the pensioners. We suggest that Gilas, as the political leader and political father of the previous speaker, Bosko Obradovic, return everything he took to the citizens of Serbia by 2012. How's he gonna pay them back? For example, by giving Dvori back all that money he gave them by 2012. We see that in a political sense, they pay him back the debt they owe him. For example, by returning the money they took from the councillors in Cačka and then returning that money along with Gilas's money, which was robbed, to the citizens of Serbia. We have these suggestions, so we'd like to help our colleague in this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43451	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on my violation of the article. 108th and 109th? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43452	For the purpose, of course, of helping to exchange a quality argument, which some here call, during this debate, of course, Mr. Chairman and ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. He spoke of this great storm, otherwise now one of the leaders of this Gilas tycoon-lyotic association, about a lot of things a little bit, and you can see, as you always chronically need to be at the centre of attention, that there is a need to know and learn some things. I'm taking this opportunity to clarify these things to him or at least to direct him, at the shortest. As for the issues of pensions and some return, of course, it has a lot to do with the understanding of matter. So when we talk about it, and of course we tell those who are able to hear it and accept it, that ultimately, they understand that pensions will be bigger than they were before October 2014, they are simple, easily verifiable things, and how much for anyone who receives that larger pension in thousands of dinars, depending on how much pension he has today, it will be bigger and how much it will be bigger from month to month, it can simply be calculated. What they cannot accept, which they cannot acknowledge for themselves, is that this is a great success, that this is one great victory for Serbian citizens who managed to bring together the president of the Republic and the Serbian government this burden of reform. It wasn't easy. It took a lot of work, needed a lot of knowledge, and it took patience, but we as a people have shown that we are at the height of the task and that supreme responsibility, it's true, our pensioners showed. We're truly grateful for that. There's no question about it. There is nothing that anyone should be angry with, of course, those who, above all, think of this tycoon-Lajotic coalition and the Latvian part of that coalition, are deeply dissatisfied with the fact that these are results that have nothing to do with them. So there is no contribution in them, there is no political profit for them. They can only be angry, angry, frustrated, after all, and the fact that they are where they are because these things don't want to be accepted as good for people around them, for this country and for this society. The PKK, they mention people and say here – it's proof, I don't know what, they used a term – betrayal, very often they like to use. They say – it is the giving of the highest value in depravity. The simple question for them is – if so, did they find themselves invited to protect both the valuable property and the city of Belgrade and the state of Serbia by standing first in line and making an offer for the PKK? Is it for bad, as they claim, which they did not then stand in line and say – here I will answer the offer first and I will buy it and I will show how it can be effectively managed. We know why, because they're self-aware to say completely pointless things. They know it's not what they say. They know for themselves that it is so good and so valuable would not have had one unsuccessful invitation to find a partner, and then when we were able to find a solution, we tortured it, you know, to know, through one bidder who would appear, we would have taken everyone alive from this planet about that being so, and they would have taken first, because as we know, and unfortunately based on the practice they felt on their backs of the Serbian state, that their abductions were not foreign. So, they'd be very happy to join if it were about what they say. Dragan Gilas would have stopped first to buy the PKK, but you know why he didn't? Because he has no idea he's investing in something, because he has no idea he's developing anything. Dragan Gilas had a plan to tear it apart, which is said to the ground, so when it's for nothing, when it's for zero, then take it over and that plan, as we know, has failed that moment... The squirrel Radeta throws it away. )......................................................................................................... You're right, Mrs. Radeta, I didn't express myself precisely enough. So, Dragan Gilas breaks things to the ground and takes over for nothing. The moment the people escorted him into a shameful and dark history, where he's the only place, that plan is hitched off and he can only get angry now, he can only get upset, but by repeating the same, identical nonsense, he can't sound more serious – which he didn't buy if it's cheap today. What? That's the answer you don't have and you'll never have. For example, for RTB Bor, why didn't Dragan Gilas buy it if it was cheap? There's no answer, there won't be one. We all know why he won't be here. We can talk about how he ran it, I mean the PKK. We can talk about dozens of millions of euros in the dubiosis he pushed the PKK into. No problem at all. We have here even materials that yours, yours, are born, from people who are in the environment, members or sympathisers of those who support the political tycoon-lyotic coalition, Đilas, Obradovic, Jeremic and others who have calculated themselves, in their tables to show how "phenomenal" it worked while Dragan Gilas was burning and burning the PKK. If you want, we can go to this session or any other session. If you want, we can talk about pregnant women and foster mothers. I argue, he did not know the moment the law was passed here, and this assembly adopted him, Bosko Obradovic and his contents. I'm saying he doesn't even know him today. I'm saying he won't even know he's been in politics for another hundred years because he doesn't really care. If he was interested, maybe he'd say something about what he's talking about today. If he wanted to know, maybe he'd put up with some amendment then. One single amendment at the moment when the basic law was passed, and I say he doesn't know when the basic law, at which session it was, was not filed by his parliamentary group, so he doesn't know why 18 months, for whom it is good, is no good. He doesn't know about those 24, or when it was, or with any explanation. I'm saying, he doesn't even know if there was any protection for those categories that he's worried about here today and who he wants to say a warm word of comfort. Was there any protection for those categories of pregnant women and maternity women before that law? I'm saying, he doesn't know. Feel free to stand up and tell me, 24, that category was 18 or 12 or 6 by the law that was in force before that. He doesn't know, he won't tell, I tell you in advance. As for Gilas, consistency and money returns and, of course, all these things we talk about, and others he likes to talk about, what it was, foreign firms that come here and here take over everything for political support and help. Consistency and this subject, I, for example, I think you can see it here based on the words of Bosko Obradovic in October 2013. So Bosko Obradovic says on the subject of Dragan Djilas, called the yellow tycoon, the tycoon mangate in this statement – it is not known what Dragan Djilas was doing, what he did until 2004 did not become a member of the DS. Since then, the profits of his companies, Djilas's companies, Bosko Obradovic says, have been growing rapidly several hundred times since politics and during politics, and in a few years he becomes a millionaire. Dragan Djilas is becoming a millionaire as a official, Bosko Obradovic says. As he did so, Bosko Obradovic further explains - Gilas's greatest fortune is being resold by advertising seconds to RTS, we all remember this well, by hiring his service companies in Belgrade's city administrations whose mayor is, and we remember this well, by getting clients, beware now, of state-owned companies or foreign companies who have previously been given privileged business. This is what Mr. Obradovic means when he talks about foreign companies that have privileged business. Think of Dragan Gilas who made it possible for them. Very well, if that's what he means. These foreign firms are either allowed to operate privilegedly or, continuing, roby privatisation in Serbia. This is what Mr. Obradovic thinks when he says – robbery privatisation, at this or any other session, of this privatisation made possible by Dragan Djilas, excellent if he means it, all of which is an unrecorded kind of media monopoly, scandalous taking of extra profits that Đilas has come up with huge wealth, etc. This one's all you want. We can talk about this one session, we can have a couple of sessions and then we can sit all the way down on that subject. If Bosko Obradovic really thinks that he is in charge of that part of the tycoon-Ljutić coalition that the people should be returned for this robbery privatisation of Dragan Djilas, because of these foreign partners Dragan Djilas, whom he has made possible to enrich, and because of Dragan Djilas himself, who, according to Bosko Obradovic, has become a millionaire from dealing with politics and several hundred times increased the dimensions of his own pocket, very well, let him go along with it today, let him return to today, first of all, what he has received from the authorities of Djilas, Jeremic, Tadic and others on behalf of the state firm, to return everything he has obtained from the same name to NGOs, let him return all that campaign money he has in the meantime to the companies of his friends and associates, let him do so in Serbia. Then ask Vuk Jeremic to also give his millions to the Republic of Serbia because it is known that he has won them on the back of this people. Let him also ask Dragan Djilas, who, according to Bosko Obradovic, has made millions rich in politics and at the expense of the country to pay back the millions, talked about the 25 million he reports today, and God knows how much he does not report, so when all this is good to the state, we will agree on who we will bring everything back. I don't know if the citizens of Serbia will spare interest, but the kind of political retaliatory that leads under the censors will not be safe, and they have shown that in all elections so far, it will show for each of the following, be assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43453	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) You have the right to a replica, colleague Obradovic, but for a long time a colleague of Ljiljana Malusic is waiting. Here you go. You're next. By amendment of Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43454	Thank you, Chairman. When I listen to an esteemed opposition colleague, it seems to me like we're not living in the same country. It's amazing what the man said. First of all, we remember in 2008 when 400,000 people were out of work. We know how to fill the PIO fund with contributions and taxes, so how are people going to fill the PIO fund when they don't have what to live on? Then unemployment was 27%, and today it's 12%. Why? Because the SNS came to power in 2012 with its coalition partners and what happened? Serbia today is respectable in the world. We are today a factor of stability. We're a good place to invest. That's why 70 new companies were opened in Serbia and over 150,000 people were employed. We never left anyone without a job. On the contrary, there was requalification, and now we have dual education. What does that mean? That no one will ever be out of a job. What does this 150,000 new jobs mean? That's it! To fill the PIO fund. That's how they charge, that's how pensions are provided. Here are the people who took part in it, in terms, and then and then retired. What happened in 2008? In order to raise pensions, it happened then and never again. In 2012, the IMF said Serbia is ahead of bankruptcy. Any, it didn't come back. Thanks to this government, good business today, pensioners have pensions. We're just talking about the law that there's going to be a ban on pension cuts since September 30 this year, bravo! That's how the responsible government works. If we hadn't had austerity measures, if we hadn't had reforms, no one in Serbia would be receiving pensions today. This is how responsible authority works. And I expected, when any of the opposition came forward, that, above all, the first sentence of each of them would be – I apologize in my personal name and in the name of a gentleman named Željko Vesenović, who was a flagrant way of violating human rights, the dignity of all women in the Republic of Serbia, to be ashamed of them! The word "rape" when I hear it, it gives me chills. I think any of them should get up and say, "I'm sorry, something like that will never happen again in the High House." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43455	Thank you, colleague Malusic. I hope that's what my colleague Obradovic will do. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43456	Dear citizens of Serbia, it is very interesting that this greatest criminal, tycoon, the thief of all time, Dragan Gilas himself, Alexander Vukic offered the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia a year ago and to be in charge of the complete economy in the state of Serbia. And from the moment Dragan Gilas refused that offer by Alexander Vukic, Dragan Gilas again became a thief, a tycoon and a criminal. It's like this. It's like this. It's like this. But more important than that is what you keep mentioning, and yellow thieves and some kind of touch power, and you forget that in your ranks there are currently a large number of yellow thieves and representatives of the then Dossier authority of Sinisha Mali and Goran Vesić and beyond. If you want to be honest, deal first with Sinisha Mali and Goran Vesic, and then tell others about yellow thieves and Dossian authorities. So if you want to be honest, here's what I'm offering, bring the law on the origin of the property. Examine this Gilas, interrogate all of us from the opposition, but also examine 24 apartments of Sinishi Mali and examine the aunt's help to Alexander Vulin to buy an apartment in Belgrade. Let's be honest and open. What prevents you from passing a law on the origin of all politicians and tycoon's assets since 1990? Well, because you're going to run into yellow thieves in your ranks and plus you've promoted the thief and now you've got advanced thieves as the people say, in your ranks. That's why you don't pass that law. And the Alliance for Serbia, which you mention whose Serbian Movement Dvori is the founder, has committed, as Dvori has been in favour for eight years, to pass a law on the origin of the property, and the first one on the scanner will be Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and other leaders of the Alliance for Serbia. Now, that's a fair offer you don't have for Serbian citizens, unlike the Union of Serbia, and you're talking about fighting crime and corruption. So you're lying to the citizens of Serbia. There is no fight against crime and corruption, you have yellow thieves in your ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43457	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Right on the replica Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43458	What Alexander Vukic offered to Dragan Gilas, I have to admit, it's so funny that I couldn't resist, I laughed this time as if I heard him for the first time, and I know you've been doing it again for the tenth time. You're famous for having a keen desire to co-operate with SNS and Aleksandra Vukic, but understand, that's out of the question, we're not interested. So, Dragan Gilas, for your information, what do you think he was holding that councilman's term in the City Assembly and hasn't appeared in years? What? Because of those 10,000 compensations, possibly. But that's not all. I'll tell you now what he obviously hoped for. Apparently, he was hoping he'd be elected mayor. You know who that could have been. It could have been just us, because we had most of it there and of course it never came to mind. And when he realized that it had nothing to do with it, he seemed to be getting a lot of anger right now, and now he's making up stuff like that that that someone was offering him something. He saw what he expected and saw what he could get. Big nothing. After all, so was the one who offered to get Davery into co-operation with the SNS in Chačka. We showed you that. He publicly offered, invited and told him the same thing he said to Dragan Gilas, out of the question we're not interested in. Vuk Jeremic, who has been playing around both the Serbian government and the presidency seeking support for his international career, is all ladies and gentlemen well known and if you think you are something morally superior to others in the sense that you have never cooperated, you would not. You're not being honest. So you would, but we don't want you, because we don't want to deal with the worst of the worst. It's about getting along. The other thing, you're talking about yellow thieves. I have now read what Bosko Obradovic says about Dragan Gilas. We also read what the DS said about the DS and other yellow thieves, Gilas, Jeremic and others. So these are the truths you're facing. Your stories from your mouth. There are certainly no thieves and tycoons in our ranks that you spoke well of until yesterday, about which others from DS, Jeremic about Djilas, Djilas about Jeremic, Jeremic about Stefanovic, Stefanovic about Jeremic and Gilas, etc. Last sentence. I have only one thing to say about your alliance. Yours is the president and yours is the chairman of one Zeljko Veselinić, as much as this is worth, and everything else there, including all of you individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43459	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on the line, George Komlensky. Here you go. It's a replica to mention the party leader.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43460	I thank the chairman. It's really inappropriate to hear words like this from someone who really doesn't have the right to say them, and he's talking about Alexander Vulin, who does his job most often. I also think that Mr. Orlic exaggerated in his demands and suggestions, when it comes to the gentleman who caused this replica, because he is not to expect to return all the money you mentioned. To begin with, you should have suggested to him that he return that money he took from the Hilandar monastery. It's a much smaller sum of money, so let's start being modest in our demands, but at least to gradually get something into their habit. Otherwise, I was distracted, I called this alliance SLIP – an alliance of thieves and con artists, but they say it's not supposed to be called SJIP now, it's SJIP. This SLJIP is not an alliance of fans and frauds because they support each other with Shiptar terrorists who seek Kosovo's full autonomy, but because the exact name of the association is the alliance of Latvians and frauds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43461	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Right on line, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43462	Thank you very much. Mr. Obradovic, you are used to lying and misleading Serbian citizens and all those with whom and how you talk... Milorad Mircic: What is this? What kind of way is this? The same way he spoke to me. He also lied to everyone who talked about 24 apartments, and you included my family in all of it, and you should be ashamed of all of it. I've done everything honestly and honestly, like I've done my whole life. In this way, as you behave and treat yourselves, may it serve you honor, to you and to your family, and better to stand there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43463	Thank you, Minister Mali. Right on line, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43464	To understand a few things here. If Alexander Vukic hadn't offered Gilas the post of Deputy Prime Minister, I don't believe you for one simple reason. Alexander Vukic is not immune to the DS personnel. Here is Sinisa Mali, here is Goran Vesic, as he offered them, and they accepted, and so he offered Gilas, but he did not accept. That's the whole difference. So, you've been constantly taking DS personnel into SNS. Nebojsa Krstic was a personal adviser to Boris Tadic, here he is, the main bot SNS and servant of Aleksandr Vukic. Jelena Trivan in DS, she is headed by "The Official Messenger". Minister Sinisa Mali, was at the Privatisation Agency at the head of tender privatisations and major robbery privatisations in Serbia. So deal with him, if you want to deal with robbery privatisations. These are the yellow thieves to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which you're talking about. Goran Vesic, a participant of all the dirtiest things in Serbian politics in the past 20 years, is Belgrade's real mayor. And you're telling me and you're convincing me that he didn't offer Dragan Gilas the post of Deputy Prime Minister. He offered every yellow man who wanted to sell and move to SNS, there were only people who sold and people who didn't want to sell, and that's all the difference. That's actually the point of the whole story that I'm trying to tell you here. So, if you were honest, you would have passed a law on the origin of the property, and you would have checked it all, and so did my property, the property of every Dwri official, but you can't do it. For seven years now, you have been avoiding the law on the investigation of the origin of the property, because you know that in the first place for the confiscation of property and prison sentences will be your members and your ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43465	Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43466	When he first started with this, I have to admit, still funny and fun stories, Dragan Gilas said – he offered me Alexander Vukic to be Deputy Prime Minister or Mayor, right? Now you've forgotten this mayor a little bit, because you've realized that something doesn't really fit you, but this isn't the first time, not the last time that things don't fit in with your fantastic structures. Is Mayor Dragan Gilas today? I wouldn't say anything. Is the vice president of the government, if that's what you're more interested in? Well, I wouldn't say anything again? Did Dragan Gilas live in the hope of being mayor during our majority in the City Assembly? Apparently it is. Ask him when you meet him next time, which kept the councilman's mandate all the time, that maybe it wasn't because the mayor was elected from the boards? Ask him when you meet him, what was he hoping for? I'll tell you one more time, and then look what happened, if we wanted to, wouldn't we have done it years ago? I suppose you can see what our answer is. It's the same as the answer given to you. So, yellow thief Dragan Gilas, same as yellow thief Obradovic Bosk. Did we make a coalition in Chačka as you begged us? Well, we're not. What we told you, remember. As for the people you mentioned, you mentioned people who were never in the DS and people who weren't in the SNS today, but all of this absolutely doesn't matter. When we talk about the worst of the worst, do you know who we're talking about? About you gathered around Željko Veselinović today. An example of honesty, honesty, honor, a case of high moral scruples, that's your leader. Not just the best example, he's also your brightest example. This is your picture and opportunity, this is your pride and pride. This is your chairman, the man who calls for the rape of the Prime Minister. So here's honor and here's honesty. Since you're following them, since they're your leaders, how do you think you can be? How do you think you can all be together, by all human qualities, including honesty and relationships to values. When you solve this, we can talk about other things. We can do it in the meantime, but in the meantime you are Zeljko Veselinovic for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43467	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Dr. Vesovic, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43468	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's out of your best intentions and desire to let go of one political controversy, you've brutally violated Article 109. The Rules of Procedure in which he says that a reminder must be made to the People's MP who addresses the other People's Parliament directly, and then the next position, if he uses swearing and offensive expressions. I really always try to have dignity, but I can't understand the need, I can understand the need to convince me to believe what they believe. Here, I believe they believe that, but don't try to change my mind, because I just don't want to believe it. That's not true. But to allow a colleague of mine by name and name - a yellow thief. What does the Serbian yellow movement have to do with the Serbian Dvori movement, please? Well, is it a problem that if, with someone, something that has been publicly declared, we are uniting around something, I ask you, who are prone to labeling to read 30 items of the aforementioned Alliance for Serbia, in which is the difference between that story and the story in which the ruling coalition sits? What have you gentlemen combined? Both left and right, and monarchs and Republicans, and anti-gay and gay. What's your problem? Shouldn't we do what you can? Let's just say that we can't and that we know that we can't and we can't carry out, here, I beg you, at last examine the origin of the property. In our program, those 30 dots say that. You don't have it. And let's stop with these empty discussions. Thank you, sir, for the five, six seconds I've exceeded, the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43469	Thank you. Dr. Vesovic, would you like the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, thank you. Vladimir Orlic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43470	Article 103 and the question of how we deal with indications of violations of the Rules of Procedure used for replication. I always, you know that, Mr. Marinkovic. I stand for the same arches. So, feel free to act in the same way as I do now, and according to what Mr. Vesovic did, I have no problem. He wanted to explain some things and I feel the need to understand about the same things. I don't care if this tycoon Latvian company is left and right, one way or another, socially liberal, what they are. That's their stuff. What he needs to understand is that they are now a family in their own words. That's what he said, as he was, the chairman of the Board of Resolutes of the Dwri for Family Care. A man who's a top expert on family matters. When he says – all of you from the Union, Bosko Obradović, Dragan Đilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanović, etc. are one family, that means you're the same. That means your values are the same. This means that your values, the values of Željko Veselinović. That means when DS, who you're family with today, calls yourself yellow thieves, and I read you a report saying that, that means they think of you. It's all of you together. Between you, Mr. Vesovic, by your decision, because you voted for it, and you're now hearting for it, there's no difference, you wanted to. You wanted to be this, that this be your name - Zeljko Veselinović, that this be your picture every time you stand up to speak in the National Assembly, that this be a picture and opportunity of your values and honesty. None of you did, that's your will. The fact that today you are one with Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon, whom Bosko Obradovic accused of robbing Serbia, that is your business and your problem, but you are equal to, same, with your will. The fact that you're shoulder to shoulder with the DS that you already call yellow thieves today, you're the same because it's your choice and that's your problem. Don't be mad at us, and that ideology has very little to do with anything. The last sentence, the ideology of the robbery of the tycoon-Ijotić company is the only policy you have, and leave left and right for some cabinet discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43471	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. The word is Bosko Obradović, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43472	Thank you, Chairman. How can I tell you, I can understand the anxiety in the ruling party's ranks because of the formation of the Alliance for Serbia, as the largest opposition bloc in the last 15 years on the Serbian political scene, now you have one united opposition on the other hand, so it's no longer that simple, you have someone who's ready to face you seriously and it's normal that you're a little more nervous than you've ever been before. However, what drew your attention to my distinguished colleague, Dr Dragan Vesovic, is very interesting. You do not notice what alliance you are, from NATO promoters, Vuk Draskovic to Alexander Vulin, from pro-Russian stories to pro-NATO stories, from promotion of homosexualism to – no, Anna is there. So there is no broader, diverse, more contradictory and controversial alliance than the alliances in power, the authority that you have stood behind Alexander Vukic. From ending pensions for pensioners, and you have a PUPS that advocates the interests of pensioners, in fact does nothing for the interests of pensioners, but only for the personal interests of its top-notch. What I would just, please, have to distract you, is that you have people in your ranks that would really be the right place to finally take some responsibility, not to have you lecture others. I would quote your esteemed colleague and mayor of Subotica, Bogdan Laban, who said: “I will rip your throat out, eat it like my pit bull, put on your concrete shoes. “ With the help of strangers, he slapped a professor at the Faculty of Civil Engineering who spoke all these words. Has anyone in the SNS ever apologized for all this? Has anyone ever said this isn't normal? Has Bogdan Laban been removed from the post of mayor and member of the SNS? Never apologized for a single ugly thing, for donkeys, assholes, traitors, thieves. And you're giving someone lessons about some decent behavior and some decent treatment. It's really hypocritical, and don't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43473	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43474	It's article 107. A little while ago, the People's Messenger told a great lie, and you had to notice it and you had to react to it. He said that this alliance of evil fathers and worse mothers is the only opposition today in Serbia. So the only real opposition party, the largest political party in parliament, is the opposition SRS. Who's in that alliance with whom he connects, separates, connects them, etc., we don't care. How can someone who is a Latvian with someone who pretends to be a national party, how can a basic question enter, even though Scott, how can he enter a political party, or from a list of elections that now represents something that has nothing to do with that list, which did not exist at the time of the elections? He would have to explain a lot to the citizens of Serbia, and we would have to make him explain himself, both him and his Gilas and his Vuk Jeremic and the whole bulument. But what we do not allow, Mr Marinkovic, please once again and all the chairmans, do not let such untruths be brought forth, that the citizens of Serbia are deceived. So, the SRS is the largest opposition political party in parliament. We are the only ones who are really very concrete and constructively criticising the government's proposals, the moves of certain ministers. We do not think that being an opposition is enough to say that someone is lying or that someone is a thief, but we are doing it the way the Rules of Procedure requires, how the Constitution requires and how the citizens of Serbia who chose us and who will choose us. The fact that someone comes running into this hall, and then thinks he's bravest because he says he's a thief to cause replicas, so that he becomes something important, it's really no longer interesting to anyone. That's how little Perica imagines politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43475	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I totally agree with you, but you know, and you're very experienced in this MPial work, that we have no right and we don't have the opportunity to punish or interrupt the MP, he can say that from a party of yoga flyers, we can't do anything, he has the right to speak. I agree with you about the truth or the truth, what's the truth, what's the truth. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43476	I don't think there is any difference in attitudes in the tycoon-Ljotic coalition gathered around Djilas, Obradovic, Jeremic, etc. on these topics mentioned earlier by Bosko Obradovic. I think they're all up for the NATO pact there. They must have accepted a common system of values, so they convince us that they've gathered around the software content. So, it's not just technical co-operation, they're about essential values together, so when for NATO, the Vuk Jeremic Pact, was, when for NATO, the DS Pact, or numerous of its leaders, is now all there for the NATO Pact. When it comes to pension relations and pensioners, they are also unique about it. All together have ruined not only this system, but a complete economic system in this state of Serbia. Why? Of course. To make them rich in person, so that there would be little for Mr. Obradovic's allowance. You know, for that little Kolubara, the little Ministry of Assistance on line 3.8.1, it was a non-governmental sector, a little printing material for a pre-election campaign in Belgrade, and it's a little bit for the pocket. It's all familiar. So these are your values and there's no difference. But, of all the points, as many as you wrote there, it's essentially only one point, one point -- power, power, greed, money. How and why? Because we hate Alexander Vukic and that's the only reason why we do anything today in Serbia. The method is also identical and unique, coming to power through the street, through the coup, through the military junta, Mr. Obradovic, all those wonderful things, the democratic things that you have called for personally, and here are the people from Jeremic's party talking about, as the people say, without mud, right into the camera – we can't beat Alexander Vukic in the elections, which is why we should conquer the authorities on the street. Values are also the same, one and the same. Zeljko Vesenovic, the prime minister's ficus, is to be attacked by a gifted African-American and passed on for months, for the people to watch him live. Every honor for family politics, every honor for a new political culture, as you say, every honor for a wonderful relationship and respect for people and their families, shameless ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43477	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43478	Thank you. Mr. Orlic, I'd like to agree with you primarily in your first presentation. Here, I think the first thing that comes to mind is the lack of understanding of matter. Someone who has never dealt with the economy and who can see that he hasn't read anything from the economy stories about the market economy and how something is sold, who determines the price and how the price is determined. Then, she talks about how it is and why someone is privileged when it comes to women farmers or who is discriminated against, and she doesn't know that women farmers don't pay full taxes and contributions. Now I don't know if a discriminatory woman is a farmer or a woman doing a normal job. I don't know what the idea was. Today we need to see who's in the coalition with whom. I think it also best shows that whoever was in the coalition with whoever ruined this country, who owed this country and why this country wasn't able to pay back pensions and pay pensions, but the state had to participate with 50%. In the end, a leader of this very alliance asked Alexander Vukic to be vice president, to be someone in the government, to be something. I think there's a replacement. Chairman, I have a question for you, since I'm the minister here and I'm listening to questions, are there any dreams about who wanted to be so that we can talk about it or not? Is that allowed, because everyone will start and have the right to talk about dreams? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43479	Thank you very much, Minister. You know he has every right to say whatever he wants, so we'll let everyone do it. When it comes to parliament, we end up with replicas of the minister's speech. Let's move on, we're completely away from this amendment to Sreta Periæ. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? The word has Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43480	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Our intention was to point out the need for precise and accurate formulations in the bill, so the amendment proposed to delete excess words. We in the SRS believe that the very essence of the law, as well as the application of the law in practice, is primarily important. In this sense, the fundamental problem that we in the SRS want to draw attention to the public, to the pensioners, but also to future pensioners is that adopting such a text of the bill would lead to the fact that there will be no regular and certain harmonisation of pensions in the future. For the SRS, that's absolutely unacceptable. It cannot be left to anyone to promise that pensions will be in line with the rules governing the budget and the budget system. Promises are one thing, and it's about to increase from 5% to 6%. But it is possible that there will never be coordination again, which will depend exclusively on the good will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is the intention of the Proposer to amend and supplement the Law, i.e. The governments of the Republic of Serbia are the least said inconclusive. When the law is passed, there must be a clear way of harmonising pensions, whatever that means. He can't let the government decide whether or not there will be coordination or not. That's why we have submitted amendments with the intention of helping them adopt the most quality text of the law, in which things will be important, unequivocally defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43481	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The word is Bosko Obradović, after the amendment. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43482	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to this discussion, I would like to appeal to the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because I think that what they say about everything that the opposition amendments have been rejected, and in particular the amendment of the Serbian Movement of the Dveri, where the amendment is said to be rejected for a reason, is about our demands that I keep repeating here, that all of this that has been kidnapped by pensioners, within a reasonable period of time, is being compensated. It is said in the government's statement that the amendment is rejected for reasons of Article 4. The law on the temporary arrangements for the payment of pensions found to be final in accordance with this law. In the end, now you, black and white, have confirmed what we all know, that you finally feel that you owe nothing to these pensioners anymore. What you took from them, the 850,000 you put your hand in your pocket and threatened with their constitution guaranteed property rights, which is a pension of 850m euros, you consider final and you have no obligation to return what you took. It's a really serious problem, and I'm pointing to that problem again that you're just trying to twist everything just so you don't admit that you owe these people something. These people are SNS voters, to be clear, so you robbed me to tell your voters, that's one of these new and interesting things, but come on, it's their thing why they trust you after all. I have repeatedly quoted Alexander Vukic here and his false promises that there will never be a reduced pension. Look, it's a doubtless lie, because when you say it today, I'll never cut my pension. Pensions can't be touched. I am guaranteed, and then after that you come to power and do everything the opposite and reduce those pensions under various excuses, that means that you lied to those voters of yours, and you didn't have the courage to fight crime and corruption, to hit the tycoons, to hit the foreign banks, which have extra profits on the coat of arms of this people, to charge taxes to those who didn't pay them, such as Željko Mitrovica, to work the example, to hit those who work on black, to those who smuggle on customs, to those who smuggle in, say, and are probably some of your people, so you don't want to hit on your own. But you simply have to bear in mind that you have deceived these people and that now you will not confess and that you will not give them back what you have taken from them. That's all I'm appealing to you here. Anything else we can dispute, the Alliance for Serbia, that it is the largest opposition bloc formed in the last 15 years in Serbia. Yes, we have disputed in 30 points, that of course there are very important things there, such as the Law on the Study of Origin of Property, such as the support of domestic economy and agriculture, such as the non-depreciation of criminal acts from robbery privatisations, such as support and threatened banking clients and war veterans and workers damaged in robbery privatisations and very important, when you already mentioned the PKK ban on further selling our natural and economic wealth, and you sold out everything. You sold RTB Bor, now you've sold the PKB, the following is the Commercial Bank, and in the end, only EPS and Telecom remain, and we will no longer have anything in our hands in Serbia, because you will sell everything out, and we will turn into a country of cheap labour, where we all work as slaves with a foreign owner. After all, the results of your government are 100,000 citizens of Serbia lower on an annual basis. We have fallen under seven million inhabitants, 40,000 more die than are born, and another 60,000 goes abroad because of your authority. People have no longer seen the meaning of life in Serbia since the SNS continued the Democratic Party's policy from the times of those of your so-called. current friends in the government who are yellow thieves, translated now into advanced thieves. I don't understand why you don't answer that simple question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43483	I won't let you insult anyone, please. Don't insult me. You can't say. You can't do that. (Bosko Obradovic: Tell me exactly who I offended? Don't insult the SNS. I didn't interpret anything, but you explicitly said it, so there's no interpretation. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43484	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107. - a violation of dignity. Mr. Chairman, I respect your tolerance for Bosko Obradovic, but here he says we're dragging our hand into the pensioner's pocket, the most cruel insult, and you tolerate it. I don't mind, but it has to be reduced to a small extent. Who puts their hand in the pensioners' pocket? I came here from the harvest, from the harvest, from the preparation of the sowing, the previous speaker accused me of it. We can't all be Librarians, or we can't all be paralysed by Chapanese libraries. We can't all take 50,000 euros from Kolubara from the miners. He put his hand in the pensioners' pocket. In 2011, the former regime's party, complemented by its small-const, raised a total of 854 billion dinars at the same rate as the euro, is now collecting thousands and 100 billion in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Now I'm asking, Mr. Chairman, why do you tolerate someone saying we're in the pensioner's pocket, someone who's with those who stole from the budget, proven to be the same state, 250 billion dinars, which is two billion euros. Why do you tolerate someone who's a court servant, not to say, a court-mad, red-haired pirate who was while everyone was poor, while the PKK was losing 87m euros, that someone who's with him is saying that we're in the pensioner's pocket. No, it's not us, it's the one who lost 87 million in the PKK, the one who put 100m euros in it. While everyone was poor, he got rich along with the one who's defending him today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43485	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43486	Article 104. Mr. Chairman, you have allowed someone who is famous for coming to finance by visiting churches and icons, who is living on helpless women in RIK, someone who has the only ideology – we hate Vukic and the government on the street, justifies political mice, not to use some other qualification in this high home, Mr. Zeljko Veseinovic, who wants to introduce into Serbia rape, who says that the prime minister wants you to be locked up in the "Corruption" in four walls without a key with one gifted African-American just released from prison and that show people watching for a few months, so let's see if after that, you would defend the worst of this country's scum. A prime minister whose government is conducting reforms in Serbia that bring a better life to pensioners and citizens of Serbia, and these criminals and yellow thieves, they were called Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43487	Thank you, colleague Becic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The injury of the Rules of Procedure, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43488	Thank you, Chairman. Article 108. You are otherwise known as one tolerable man and I do not say that you do not apply the Rules of Procedure, but very often in those mild forms. Before you interrupted Boško Obradovic when he insulted him, I don't know who anymore, if there is anyone else in this country he doesn't insult, but I think you should be stricter and give even a warning. Bosko Obradovic also spoke about the mayor of Subotica and about the president of Serbia and their families, about the minister and everything was offensive from the very beginning, so you had to be a little bit sharper towards him and give a warning. But remember, the mayor of Subotica, along with the president of the state and government, is a man who has stabilised the city's budget seriously. The man who brought the end of the building of an ypsilon leg. The man who hired six and a half thousand people in the free zone in Subotica. The man who has approached a serious revitalisation and these are all projects that in 20 years' time were not the partners of Boška Obradovica able to finish or end by getting seriously rich on them, but he is also a man who for one of his own within a party conflict apologized to the public and told about what he had to say. But he will never forgive you. He won't forgive you as a man and a family, he won't forgive you the president of the state, he won't forgive you the SNS, and he won't forgive you all the successes of the Subotics that I've listed. We know very well in Subotica everything that was while it was managed by DS and Boško Obradović's partners, and we know what the situation is now. Every man in Subotic knows that. For the sake of truth, I had to tell you this and warn you that next time, you will be a little less tolerated and you will react to the warnings of Bosca Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43489	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Milimir Vujadinovic: No. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43490	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 103, paragraph 7 and Article 8. The President of the National Assembly shall be responsible for giving national MPs who do not comply with the provisions laid down in Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 and abuses the rights provided for by this Article the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. So, I support that you did not want to make any warnings, because indeed in one spirit of enormous tolerance, you are leading this session today, but perhaps you can apply Article 8 103 because the MPs who spoke before me have abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure to speak and to use for replication, and you may be able to take away the time of their MPs' group. In all three cases, the previous one wasn't a matter of injury to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43491	Thank you, Dr. Wesovich. Well, for the very reason of developing an argument in parliament, I didn't want to apply either time-consuming, let alone say, so I would continue in that tone. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Dragan Vesovic: No. Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43492	It was funny and sad and, I must say, tragic. It's funny, let's say, that, as we've learned now, what this Latvian part of the tycoon-lyotic coalition doesn't like about the policy we're conducting, says what DS policy is. So all the worst in the world they have to say they're actually talking about DS policy all the time, right? Where was Lutovac president of the DS? Is it by any chance every night in the common stands of whoever just said that about that same DS? Where was leader Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon. What do they call him, Yellow? Is it because he was the leader of the DS, right? Whose minister, who was the high-ranking official, Vuk Jeremic? It's not that Democratic Party again, is it? Was Borko Stefanovic also the senior officer of the Democratic Party? Is it now all those who are one family, as these Latvians from the tycoon-jotić coalition, all who are with him one family? Does he even know what he's saying? That's the funny part. That leaves a question for him. It's sad when he says something's about to hit the tycoons now, that this force, imagine, he and I don't know if there's anyone else like him, Zeljko Vesenovic, say, he's just like him, this Zeljko Vesenovic who's calling for rape, so the two of them are going to get together with Gilas, so they're going to hit Gilas or join him with Jeremic, so they're going to hit Jeremic. That was pretty sad. What's tragic is that someone mentions the robbery and mentions the lie, and five minutes ago they heard their own words about who robbed him, to remind him. He robbed Dragan Gilas. He got rich a hundred times when he was in power. The biggest asset was resold by advertising seconds at RTS, by hiring its service companies in Belgrade's city administrations, whose mayor, by obtaining state-owned companies' clients under DS, is again, or by foreign firms who have previously been able to give their foreigners the opportunity to either rob Serbian privatisation. Last sentence. He said the leading Ljoticevic, today named Željko Veselinović, since they are all now named Zeljko Veseinović, in the tycoon-Ljotić coalition, about their leader Dragan Djilas, is this the robbery, was this your face Željko Veseinović?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43493	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on the replica, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43494	Thank you, Chairman. You see, it's very interesting and characteristic how the SNS has become suddenly forgotten and whenever some of the former regimes want to move to the SNS, they forget that it's a fit of the former regime and they're very happy to receive it into the SNS and put it on top of the functions and then the characters of the former regime are phenomenal when they move to SNS, but when they don't want to move to SNS and sell to Alexander Vucic, then they remain the bad characters of the former regime and it's called hypocrisy, it's called falsification, because if it's a bad former regime, then all the characters of that former regime are bad, so even those who are in SNS today, like Goran Vesic and Sinisa Mali. What you have put the leading personnel of the former bad regime as ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, just explain it to the people. Stop talking about the former regime. Who prevented you from passing a law on the origin of property for seven years and sending all yellow thieves to prison? Who's stopping you today? Maybe because they've all gone to advanced thieves, to SNS, and now you can't pass the law against your members and ministers. So that's the essential question I'm asking you here. So this is where the more thesis is constantly replaced. You would like to accuse all of the Serbian Dvora Movement, which was never in power, never participated in any government, was not a member of any DOS. Your leading officials were members of the DOS, so you see with them who he is and how he ruined Serbia in the previous period. I'm sure they're not Dwri, and that's your problem with the Dwri, which you can't find for the Dwri, because Dwri wasn't in power, and it hurts you, and in your environment, at the top of your government, a series of criminal activities, corruption and everything else that comes from the times of the former regime. So you're the former regime, you're DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43495	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'm sorry to have to do this through you, but that's just the rule. Article 106 – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I would ask all MPs in parliament to really get back on the agenda and not waste any time and, after all, not to be ashamed of those people who look at us in the assembly. I would also ask Mr. Obradovic to reduce that anger, anger, that hatred that exists every time he comes out after a pay phone. As far as I know, the Dvora Movement stands for traditional values, to preserve everything that is Serbian, for what are human values, to address one another in a human and normal way. All he said is not true, and the ultimate hypocrisy is when you sit with those and make a group with those with whom you call five minutes before that as the people who stole, as I understood, and I suppose the other MPs, so those with whom you sit are the people who stole the pensioners in the last government and stole everything that could have been stolen. So that's the ultimate hypocrisy, when you know you can't go through the election, you're sitting with those you think are the worst, but you're swallowing it all to get results. Once again, I call on and refer to those who believe that they are starting all this work in politics and this Parliament, to look back a little bit and see who proposed to the same team that you are sitting with today and the laws on the origin of property, but also many other laws that would bring us not only closer to the EU, but also civilised society with which we all aim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43497	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Zika Gojkovic: No. Thank you. Right on the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43498	About what this Zeljko Veselinovic, who among these other Veselinovics from their tycoon-Ljotic coalition is primarily in charge of this part of Ljotic, said he was never part of DOS. Well, he's part of the DOS today. Again, it's not our fault. None of us made him sit by the laps of Dragan Gilas, stay in the DS today, and the yellow thieves he's talking about. No one forced him to be his idol and best associate Vuk Jeremic or the moral role model of this Zeljko Veselinovic. So for him and the rest of Veselinovice this is a model, the environment is what it is and they are one family in their own words because they wanted it to be. I can accept it and I can believe he's suffering because people like Mr. Little or Mr. Vesic aren't with them. What would they have to do with any of that and any of those, what would they be? I fully understand why they're not with them, but they're with the people who work for this country and who are making a result for this country. If you long for it, let it remain your business, but exchange thesis, don't deal with unserious matters. The replacement of the thesis is never a clear quote and an indication of your words without a single letter being added. What's a replacement when I say your words are, that Dragan Gilas, a man who's a tycoon media magnet? What is a replacement thesis when I say that your words are that Dragan Gilas is involved in the surrender of Kosovo and Metohija? What is the replacement when I say that your words are that Dragan Gilas is also guilty of headless running into the EU? And with all these things, you have agreed on your own, you have accepted that these are now your values and your policies, so also the surrender of Kosovo and Metohija and the tycoon manners and methods and assembling in the EU. I understand that you're in pain, but it's called an ex-wise mind. It also hurts these "yellows" who today are "ljuticians" because of your presence, but you will have to overcome these pains on your own. If you want to use today's debate in a clever way, define yourself worthyly, Željko Veselinović, in these words, or in the words of your President Željko Veseinović, if you dare once again, shameless.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43499	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Veroljub Arsic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully understand the representatives of the former regime and their associates for so much assaulting this law. This is probably one of, if not the last debate on pensions and their only moment when they can politically profit from certain promises, it just doesn't explain how they're going to keep those promises. It is true that in 2014 we were facing total economic and fiscal collapse. That was why pensions were reduced. I don't want to discuss whether it was in accordance with the Constitution or not, there's my colleague Martinovic, but I can say that because of the debts we found here in 2012. It is also true that it took great political courage to make such an unpopular decision and brave people who are responsible for their country and their people make such decisions. That's what Alexander Wolfie did. However, much less courage is needed to rape Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic through Twitter's order there, Zeljko Veselinovic. It's cowardice. Does it take courage to attack a member of RIK, who is a woman? And it's cowardice. Does it take courage to attack a journalist in front of her workplace? And it's cowardice. And now we're talking about some courage. You don't need courage for that. To attack the President of the Assembly? And it's cowardice. After I call you brave, don't deal with women anymore, physically, intellectually in any other order, but physically, so don't. It's cowardice, nothing else, and with those I don't want to be in any alliance. Maybe that's funny to you, but I'd like to see how this alliance will pass a law on the origin of property, when it is a member of that alliance, Dragan Gilas? Come on, explain. Why don't you show me that alchemy? Can anyone seriously believe that story? No one can, and that's the problem. The government of the Republic of Serbia when Alexander Vukic was president has taken unpopular measures to save Serbia's economy and economy. The moment has come to say that we can now be relaxed and just find another example in the world that the country that implemented the fiscal consolidation measures is recording gross growth. I don't know. Or, since we are constantly said to be a cheap workforce, the average salary during the 2007 DOS regime was the largest, it was 410 euros. It's bigger today. Then tell me who was working slave labor at the time, and who now really has better salaries and better wages and a better economy, because these profits actually make pensions. As far as my colleagues in the former regime are concerned, I am in vain trying to explain something to them because this Alliance for Serbia only binds two things, money and hatred to Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43501	Thank you, colleague Arsic. By amendment Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to my distinguished colleague Arsic, and indeed in 90% of the first part of his exposure we have full consent. There was a crisis, and that's where we agree, and we don't just agree whether it had to be taken out of retirement or not, but let's assume it had to be. Everything that's said is true. It's a better situation, and that's true. We all agree with that, but we can't just get an answer whether there's any intention of the money being taken in that period, in some future period, whatever the period is, and it's our biggest disagreement with the law, and we're trying to say that, although it might not be four years, it might be eight years, that what we took these people back in some way. I take it that was the situation, we had to. We have proposed some other solutions from where we might have been able to substitute funds for the consolidation of the financial system and the entire state, there are differences, but come on now, we did it. We all say -- we're full of budgets, we're going to a solid financial situation. Why there is no indication or idea to tell people – you know, a data of 150 thousand deceased; these people physically, unfortunately, cannot be returned. They have families. They were taken over four years of serious money to individuals. I realize that they're serious that they can't right now, but I'm just asking a question and I don't have an answer, here's the finance minister, whether it's even thinking about it, or whether what we've got is in the light of the amendments that aren't now the subject of the conversation, and it won't be that it's just a near state and that's not thinking about it. That's why we can't support it, and that's why we're talking about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43503	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. Right on the replica Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43504	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, you see, the solutions that are proposed, which come from the ranks of MPs who do not support the government of the Republic of Serbia, are that pensions line up with the cost of living or the rise of prices for small or inflation. Why do you want pensioners to have fewer pensions in the future? Do you know what inflation is today? One and a half percent. We plan in the future to have far more pensions than one and a half percent because we hire workable citizens who fill the pension fund. If you go according to that logic, the pensioners would have had a very slow increase in pensions, and when we talk about the damage that someone had, let's mathematically, purely, if from 2008 to 2012, the average inflation increased about 12.5%, which is at a four-year level of about 50% whether anyone agrees or anyone knows, here's Mr. Minister knows that inflation is a provision of capital that has an economy and a population. Who's going to pay off and how do 400,000 workers who are out of a job? Who's going to pay off companies whose capital is 50% down by four years? If that were the case, look at the course of the euro. From 78 August 2008 to 119,80 August 2012. They printed money to steal and those who advocate the privatisation of large state-owned enterprises do so for one reason only, which is taught from the past, to continue the theft they were doing through these state-owned enterprises before 2012. Well, that's why state-owned enterprises served. Well, you have companies in restructuring, that the state pays him wages to workers, and directors are competing to buy a better and more expensive car. Now, that's what those who are now representing the Alliance for Change, the Alliance for Serbia, are doing, as they are already called. And every honest one there won't be. It's not enough just hate over Alexander Wolf, so I guess there's something else, damn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43505	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. She's not present. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. She's not present. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here, after two, three hours of debate over which major thieves, some yellow thieves or those who changed colors, and still the other thieves, and stories about Dragan Gilas, I really feel that Dragan Gilas financed this campaign today, because two hours and a stronger story about him, to say something about my amendment that I submitted to Article 1. The PIO Act. I wish I had listened to these two hours about why the amount of pensions in Serbia is as big as it is, and we heard that the minimum pension is about 14000 and 200, 300 dinars, and you'll all agree that this is an amount that you can't live on, because simply, bills for municipal services are bigger than that amount. So I'd like to talk about it. And, worst of all, the number that receives these minimum pensions is not small at all. I really don't know exactly what that number is. If Mr. Minister has that information, I'd like him to tell me. But I certainly know that this number is quite large, because there are a lot of my friends who have retired or who have to retire, and they're going to have this minimum pension. So, all these praises of the Serbian government and on all sides as they prevented the collapse in 2012, as there was a consolidation of public finances and now finally our oldest population can expect to spend a little more relaxed and relaxing this life that they have left. In my view, it's all falling water, because this increase that's being defused through, maybe it's not inflation in the sense that it's statistically showing up, but if we have in mind what the prices of all the services and the prices of all the other things are, we'll still see with this increase that pensions are actually less than they were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43507	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43508	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment of mine has a similar meaning to that of the previous amendment that I have submitted to the title of the bill. The aim of this amendment is to best define the text of the law, in order to make it more understandable to a large number of people. This team before the pension population is the most numerous population in Serbia and the law concerns a large number of those who expect much of this law. And I belong to the retired population myself and, unfortunately, I have to disappoint a large part of my fellow pensioners. The law has been announced as something revolutionary, which aims to repair the pensioner's difficult position so far. However, when it enters into the essence of this law, it can be seen that it essentially brings nothing. It is said that pensions will be bigger than ever, which is certainly not true and is a manipulation of our oldest citizens. What pensions these pensions will really be, the pensioners will see for themselves very soon when this law begins to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43509	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43510	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the SRS thinks the pension system in Serbia has been systematically destroyed for years. The question arises – how and in what way? Well, a bad political situation, pre-election promises, poor blackmailing coalition agreements, political partners' wishes just for the sake of one goal, get as many votes as possible. Under current law, pensions are coordinated, i.e. They increase twice a year, with growth, of course, inflation. The government is now giving itself a discretionary right to decide on an increase in pensions by deleting the formula for harmonisation from the law. In practice, this could mean one correction a year, not according to the rate of inflation, but according to the government's assessment. Of course, if it is not an election year, it is difficult to see an increase, while in the election we can expect major increases, for the purpose of the election campaign and for the sake of obtaining such votes. In this way, the pension system is transformed into a social institution for regime voters. That's what we've come to believe so far since the five-octobaric coup to this day. With this law, he tries to keep his eyes on the people for as long as possible, promising never greater pensions. In fact, an increase can always be if it's a daily political situation. The essence of the change in the law lies in a new Article 207a, which says the increase depends, I quote, on the economic movements and financial opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's budget, with funds for these purposes being no more than 0.3% of GDP on an annual basis. The terms, heights and dynamics of payment of the cash amount referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by means of an act of the Government. It's a finished quote. In this way, the poorest and oldest citizens of Serbia become the tools in the hands of the government, which can manipulate them as they wish, so that they will not be able to control the basis of which pensions are increasing or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43511	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43512	First of all, we Serbian radicals think it is good to finally get pensions back to the level since 2014 and to get the conditions to meet it. What the promoter is proposing here, the government is proposing something that could arise in the next period as a major problem, which is that the claim that pension funding is actually provided gives some certainty that, in the next period, all these criteria and all the conditions are the same as they have been so far, especially when it comes to insurance status, where it provides for Article 12, that this status will be corrected, in the sense that some other persons doing certain tasks will be covered by this law and that there will be insurance companies, i.e. bonds of payment to the PIO fund, and in doing so, we see a clear tendency to conclude from all of this that we are counting that the government will, hopefully later on, but these are only hopes, to come up with a new amendment and supplementing of this law, that the age limit increases in insurance companies that meet the conditions or which should meet the conditions for retirement. Why? Because this system, or this system proposed by the government, is already being applied in the countries of the region. It has also been applied in European countries, in countries of the region, and it has been seen that it has had to go to an increase in years of age, or life, in order to close the cycle, i.e. the budget financing process. Perhaps it could have gone immediately with this proposal, because the new insurance companies that are paying should know, it should be clearly shown to them that this limit is imminent, it is now increasing and when it comes to women, but it will be about the same as in the region about 67 years old, we are talking about age, because that is the logic of things, given the dynamics of budgeting, given GDP growth, we Serbian radically are aware of those facts. What we insist on, it has to be in the right sense of words, pension is one social category, one justice and justice. We are against the fact that someone who was undeserved and not with his abilities was in certain functions and therefore had a large average. We are opposed to the fact that in retirement there is a large pension and large income, unlike the one who did not work with his own guilt in certain companies, whether they are public or other, and by a scheme of circumstances and events in the markets, he cannot even have about as much pension as these so-called pensions. Undeserved.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43513	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43514	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO so that I would specifically point out that the amendments and additions of this law will improve the work of local self-government institutions, notably the PIO Fund, and then those institutions that co-operate with the PIO Fund. This Law on PIO has suffered several changes, but these changes are necessary, above all, to make the Law, i.e. Its amendments and additions are brought into line with the public administration reform launched, then with the Public Administration Reform Strategy and the Action Plan stemming from that strategy, also to comply with World Bank recommendations, but also with the part of the Government's programme, which concerns increasing the efficiency of public service provision. Of course, it is important to comply both with the law and amendments and to supplement the law with the strategy, i.e. with existing other regulations, but it is also important what happens in practice after this harmonisation. We will have simplified administrative procedures, both in front of the PIO Fund and in procedures with other local self-government institutions, following amendments and additions to this law. The obligations of employers on this basis are reduced, double records are avoided and any proceedings before the PIO Fund are simplified. Certainly, the reduction in bureaucracy leads to the improvement of the work of both the Fund and other institutions and hence the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43515	Thank you, colleague Mike. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43516	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Marinkovic, the Honorable Minister Mr Mali, the Honored Guests of the Ministry, Honored Members of the People's Parliament, in Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO shall be amended in Article 12. The Law on PIO and the new position 2 is added: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving health conditions." Article 12 lists self-employed workers who will be provided with legal certainty and the appropriate social position of current and future generations of pensioners. In this respect, it is understood that the work is also considered to represent and represent companies, i.e. legal persons who carry out their own business in order to obtain profits. In this way 2.6 million insurance and 1.7 million pensioners currently in the system testify to the importance of this vision, the scope of pension insurance for Serbian citizens. It is a mandatory state system based on the principle of intergenerational solidarity and ongoing financing. Mandatory insurance shall cover employees including civil servants, members of the military, police and security services, persons covering independent activities including members of free professions, priests and religious officials, farmers who are self-involved in compulsory insurance. Of course, aging is a natural and normal physiological phenomenon that develops in every man in a different way and goes with the occurrence of certain diseases. That's why the extent of healthcare is higher and we need to create better health conditions for this population, I mean the pensioner population, when it comes to the age of what we do with this law, and through the amendment, we further define Article 2. On further improvement of the health conditions for pensioners, I will speak in more detail in the next amendments I have submitted, but still do not forget that life in retirement should be added for years, not the other way around – years of life. Since the topic of the plenary session of the Law on Higher Education is, among other things, I am using the opportunity to congratulate the Faculty of Sports and Physical Education, which was held between 150 and 200 places on the Shanghai List this year and thus advanced a few-tenths of places relative to the position he had two years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43517	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Here you are, colleague of Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43518	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are following a debate these few days in the principle of amendments and additions to the Law on PIO, I cannot help but comment within the framework of my amendment that representatives of the ideological and political criminal alliance concluded to prevent individual extinction from the political scene of Serbia, are trying to bring citizens, especially pensioners, to say that they should forget the time they ruled over the facts so close to the past and trying to influence not collective memory of citizens. Joined and witnessed secises, we would be happy, as well as citizens, to forget the period of past you ruled, a period marked by thieving, crime and corruption, because we needed a lot of denials that the pensioners had just submitted to the greatest extent to repay Serbia from the debt slavery in which you left it, we prevented bankruptcy and deficit in the budget and finally reduced public debt. That's what you've left us, the joint secises, and now you're trying to get your cheap political pamphlets to make you forget closed factories, 400,000 people who've lost their jobs, not paid salaries and late pensions. I don't understand then how you have the nerve to sit across the street, although I don't see you in the hall, insulting Serbian citizens and your politics, failed demagogy, trying to overturn what you did while you were in power and convincing Serbian citizens to forget, not to remember and forgive your debt policy. Citizens, and especially pensioners, who have suffered the greatest burden of your demagogue policies, have not forgiven, and have not forgotten, but have punished you at all levels, and are punishing you further, and have rewarded and confirmed their trust in the man who has found a solution for every bad decision in the past and continues to find them. The man you owe yourself to as citizens of Serbia, because today you live in an economically stable state, and your oldest family members will receive increased pensions on October 1st. For reason of common sense, let's determine what it is that you guys attack in general these days. Serbia today is economically stable, a third-year country showing surplus in the budget, thanks to which we can raise pensions and salaries. You are attacking that Serbia today has a stable monetary policy and inflation smaller than many more powerful countries, and it has not passed 1.5% for several years. You are attacking what we have made Serbia a favourable country for foreign investment. You're attacking what our unemployment rate has never been lower in the last 25 years and below is 12%. You are attacking and condemning that pensions will be increased by at least 8.8% and some by 13.2%, and that those pensioners who are not reduced pensions, which covers up to 28,000 dinars, that is 68% of pensioners, pensioners, pensions will be increased by 5% and they will have the highest growth compared to 2014, which is significantly more than the inflation rate for that four-year period, so it's not worth telling you either that pension increases are not consistent with inflation. You are essentially attacking only to cover up your misdeeds, all that you have done to Serbia and its citizens because you left Serbia to be robbed to the last dinar, torn apart as prey, powerless, fallen and on your knees. Today, Serbia is a country of respectable international status, economic and political leaders in the region thanks to the politics of President Aleksandr Vukic and thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, all that you are and everything that defines you in that alliance for destruction is in the statement of your founder, the chairman of your ruling alliance, your council member in the Belgrade City Assembly, who otherwise lives in Smederev, your friend and fellow member of the Gilas trade unionist, Željko Vesenović, whose statement you are unjudged by her and, together, you have called for the rape of every woman in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43519	Thank you, colleague Christmas. According to business colleague Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43520	Thank you, Chairman. I refer to the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 106, paragraph 1. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I appreciate the effort of each of us, and every colleague and colleague who makes an effort to write an amendment, to explain it here, to defend it, to agree with him the next day in the vote or disagree, but I simply can't look back on this amendment that my colleague Christmas made, and in fact spoke about him least. The amendment reads that this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to strengthening the state system. In its presentation we have not heard a single word about how this law on amendments and additions to the PIO Act to improve the strengthening of the state system, but we have heard mostly one substantive EPP of what SNS is doing, to welcome it if all this is true, but please stick to the agenda point because we have been discussing for three or four hours, and we have only discussed about fifty amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43521	Thank you, colleague Gajic. As I understand it, my colleague Christmas had one school approach, a wider one. He's entitled to it. At least I found it interesting in the context of now raising pensions and all that awaits us. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Here's my colleague, Bakery.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43522	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, have completed four years since the Pensions Act was passed, or a law that allowed temporary pension cuts. This is where the government's responsibility has proved to be to take the unpopular but state-sponsored measures. It showed that then Prime Minister Vukic was not chasing popularity, but was pulling bold, professional and visionary moves and, regardless of all the heifers and criticisms that took place after such decisions, it proved that the decision among citizens was generally accepted and positively accepted. Evidence of this is all the elections that took place in the previous four years, and after the adoption of such a decision, in which the policies of Aleksandra Vukic and the SNS from the citizens received overhalf the support, not so rarely and almost two-thirds of the support. This has resulted in conditions for the consolidation of Serbia's financial system. They've acquired the conditions to withdraw part of the funding, to transfer to investment. There have been conditions to create new factories and new jobs, to employ as many capacities as possible, their own capacities. There have been conditions to create real income, income from which you can tax and full budget and full funds. We have come to the point that the wheel of the economy, the wheel of happiness, has turned to our side and has gone positive and such a policy has proved to be correct, and it is proof that for the needs of the pension fund, 50% has been singled out earlier, or touched, and now there is something smaller, about 27%. Our economic growth rate is high, the second in Europe, after Poland is at 5.1%, and Serbia has reached 4.9% and the public debt that we inherited at 78% has now fallen to 50% of GDP and has a tendency to fall another 2% and is expected to be 48% of GDP by December and January. A sound foundation has been created to strengthen the state's ability to raise pensions further. I thank the pensioners for that, and I would quote President Vukic who said -- these brave people have made the greatest contribution to the better life of our children and the survival of Serbia, and I say thank them very much, and thank you too.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43523	Thank you, fellow Bakery. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back to work at 3:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43524	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43525	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, hbgfc by adopting the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, many positive effects will be achieved, and one of them is the reduction of the number of temporary solutions of the Republic Fund PIO, through changes in the way the last year of internship has been calculated. In fact, currently on average, between 80 and 100 000 people are retired annually, and only 15% are given a solution that determines the final amount of pension. The main reason for making so many temporary solutions is the fact that the amount of pension in most cases is accounted for without accounting for the last year's internship. The number of temporary pension resolutions has doubled since the full period of work has entered into the calculation of pensions. In the past, pensions were not taken into account in the last year of work, and all received immediate final solutions, but this caused dissatisfaction, as many pre-retirements were the highest, and the provision was soon abolished. However, the calculation of earnings and contributions in the last year of the internship is not the only reason for issuing temporary pension decisions. It is often related to other issues related to data acquisitions, which depend on the determination of pension rates, such as unpaid contributions to the PIO Fund, the subsequent establishment of insurance standings due to the absence of insurance applications and outflows, bankruptcy and liquidation of employers, judicial proceedings related to contributions to the PIO Fund and the like. By removing certain reasons of temporaryity, the PIO Fund brings a new solution which can again be temporary if not all data are still known. This is how individual pensioners get a few temporary solutions until the final collection of pensions. After drawing up a final solution, the amount of pension may vary to a smaller or larger extent than the amount per temporary solution. If the pension after the final settlement is less than it was after the temporary period, the user is obliged to repay the amount more paid once or by suspending a maximum of one-third of the pension until the settlement of the debt. It happens significantly less frequently that the user has received a smaller amount after a temporary solution than that calculated by the final decision, and in this case, the PIO Fund pays the amount for the entire period since the adoption of the temporary solution, i.e. from the date of the pension right. Given the negative consequences that temporary solutions can produce, the proposed changes overcome the problem of making temporary solutions due to the lack of data on the average salary for the year in which the pension is granted, by determining the personal coefficient for that year so that no end of the calendar year is expected. Nevertheless, it is desirable for users themselves to be involved in the collection of data necessary for the adoption of final solutions, especially if the work experience has been achieved in a number of enterprises, some of which, in the meantime, went bankrupt or liquidated. Only so is it possible to overcome the problem that can cause temporary retirement solutions, so that before the deadline for a final solution is the longest in three years, and if the PIO Fund does not obtain all the necessary data, the temporary solution will be declared the final solution that many pensioners can be damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43526	Thank you. National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43527	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia who follow this transmission, just to say, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. Let me say this Article 1 is actually related to the previous Article 12. In accordance with Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. But before I say anything about this law, I can't, without commenting on the behaviour of some opposition MPs who traditionally, look at the dear viewers, that the camera shows how these benches are where they're supposed to sit, empty. That's the third time I've mentioned it in a month. They perform scenographically from 10 to 1 and change, where the first former prime minister in the ugliest words here attacks some MPs, and to remind you, the former former prime minister, I will not mention his name, although not in the hall, lost in his party elections. So the members of the party in the assembly knew best and assessed his work as prime minister there by 2004. So offended by his unhappiness and poor work and the many manipulations that have taken place, he left that yellow party. A new president of the yellow party, Tadic, who pushes through to 2012, and again because of his inadequacy, giving various manipulatives to his tycoons, loses again in his party elections, in the Assembly, from people who know him best, as well as the previous, know him for years and loses him in these elections and comes now, I will not, again, for the president of the yellow party, the former mayor and he becomes president. Of course, until the next election, the citizens come out again and again in their party elections, he loses again to the third province president of the yellows, so let me repeat once again, the province's name is not, and our citizens know it, loses it to the godfather of the former state, and the former army minister in those elections. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the citizens of Serbia, to remind them. So, there was a frat brother in that Alliance of former presidents, who were their own members who had known for years, in their congregations, being replaced because they had no confidence in them. Think about it and think about it. Their EPP propaganda in pre-election campaigns and stories that are false, lying, and their dissatisfaction may be able to attract some of the citizens, but always imagine that they have lost in their party's congregations. Then let me point out the high-ranking negotiating officer with the border crossings that set up the left, so their candidate with the Turnover Movement, and you see, all individuals who are reluctant or, moreover, that's a mild word, who have participated in many different robbery privatisations that my colleagues and we have repeatedly repeated, have gathered in the Alliance for Serbia. This frat and group, where today was a promoter, who was directly, I'm going to say, the president attacked, they deserve sociological research, psychological, journalistic research, to see how and what they did. And, of course, there won't be a positive result, and that requires these sociological, journalistic and other research and public opinion as an experience for other and younger colleagues who are in a policy that they shouldn't be, that they shouldn't destroy their country economically and financially. To turn to today's promoter of the Alliance, who says President Vukic failed the pensioners in 2014 because after the elections they were given the Pension Reduction Act. Let me remind you, and we all know, I think and the citizens know, and these pensioners, that he openly, frankly, brought Serbia to bankruptcy. In order to save the country's bankruptcy, it is necessary to reduce and reduce pensions, as well as the salaries of individual categories, that painful reforms are needed if we think this country is to get on its feet, to attract investors. He thus explained it on many occasions and came to an understanding. What he says he failed, the 2016 elections showed – President Vukic won the election over the half majority in the first round. So he's a reasonable higher percentage and honest of our people who understood that it was necessary and trusted him. Now, this law and the abolition of this interim pension reduction law is the fulfillment of the promise again, because President Vukic said – we will do the moment when the budget and the country are on their feet and when we have a surplus and that promise is now being fulfilled. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43528	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... According to the Rules of Procedure? You have to sign in electronically. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43529	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I point out the violation of Rules 27, 106 and 108 of the Rules of Procedure. You have to listen to what every one of us is saying. Today it is on the agenda to discuss amendments on amendments to the Law on PIO. There are 600 and some amendments written here. The ruling SNS party wrote at least 400, 500 and we love to hear what their amendments are and how they improve this law. In particular, the amendment by counterpart Knezevic reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the development of the education system. It's a good thing that here and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, so it would really be good if we had promoted this amendment in that spirit, perhaps accepted it, to see how these amendments to the PIO laws affect the education system. So please, it's been six hours now, if we continue like this, we'll be discussing these amendments for another six days. And we wait for our amendment to come, because first of all, we want to focus only on this law. All these discussions stand, we need to say what is good and what has not been done in this country, but not now that the debate on amendments is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43530	My colleague, I do not think any of the rules of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, because what you asked me to do is not allow MPs to participate in the work of the National Assembly. We've been discussing it for six hours, and we've been discussing every law for as long as it takes, because this is also the place where it's being discussed, the best place, so the citizens have chosen us and given us trust, both to our lists and to each of us individually. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to make a statement about it? No, I don't. All right, thanks. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Machužić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43531	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, I would like to begin by thanking all the pensioners who have submitted the most difficult, but also the greatest burden of reforms and who, for this short time, with their little, have helped Serbia and all of us. Don't think our citizens forget that a few years ago, when this law was passed, the register was empty. Perhaps, if our political opponents had asked themselves, we should have let not only the pensioners but the entire public sector go completely bankrupt, and only then would we ask them if it was better for the next few years to receive a little less income and pension or if they were receiving 23.30% more months, and after that nothing. They criticise this solution and those MPs, of course, when they stop at the session and the plenary hall, and forget that the same DS and that dosovic authority raised our pensions before each election, that they funded the payment of those pensions from unrealistic, privatization, and from failed privatisations, a typically unsustainable solution and an unsustainable economy. That's why we came to an empty register that they left behind, a devastated economy and a rusty industry. The factories flew away somewhere, evaporated from our country in their time, the workers stayed on the street, and the till was empty. Today, these same guys are making fun of us and our results. In the King, where I come from, there's nothing left after them, there's not one single factory left that works. There are no successful privatisations, they sold and squandered everything that could have been sold by the Magnochrom car factory, "Jasen", "Ektron", "Stoteks", "Gložgara", "Poljoprom", I could have counted incessantly, but I would have left a little time for my colleagues from SNS, because I am sure that for cities and municipalities where they come from, they can list a lot of things. Today, the situation in the King is completely different. Currently, two huge factories are being built in the Kingdom that will employ over 5,000 people. The German "Leone" and Turkish "Tayer Group" will soon open their plants in the Kingdom, where in the past half century, no single factory has been opened, but has therefore been very closed. Besides building factories, building a whole village, one school, kindergarten, roads, sports fields, and much more. The king and Serbia are slowly becoming symbols of success, progress and prosperity. All thanks, among other things, to the law we are talking about today, that is, pensioners who, by their patience and strength, have drawn Serbia out of a difficult crisis. It's not hard to talk about today when we can see the results. It was hard to make a decision that year and explain it to the citizens. At the time of the adoption of this law that we are talking about today, 58% of pensions were financed from the budget, today it is 31%, with a tendency to reduce, thanks to, among other things, to pensioners, budget savings, as well as to reduce unemployment and new employment, which is now directly charged by the PIO Fund. Thanks to the determination and willingness to accept the responsibility of today's president, then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, Serbia is coming out of the crisis today and finally stepping on its feet. Such a serious, responsible and persistent approach to Serbia's economic recovery has created a strong and strong state, a reliable and stable partner in the world, which is increasingly attracting foreign investment. A reputation has been provided that Serbia is currently among the countries with the largest inflow of investment in the world per capita. We can expect these investments directly and indirectly to lead to Serbia's overall development, but I do hope that the sacrifice that our oldest citizens have submitted will mean that young people will stop going abroad, and not only that, but they will start coming back at last. I call on my fellow MPs to support my proposal in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43532	Thank you. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miloevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43533	Thank you. Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. In Article 1 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which is amended in Article 12. The Law on PIO, I propose adding a new position on 2nd, which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector." With this amendment, we introduce private sector improvement as a guideline in defining one of the basic concepts of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the irresponsible policy before the SNS came to power has also led to deficits in the business of the Republic Fund for PIO, a very unfavourable relationship between the number of insurance workers and the number of pensioners, as well as a constant trend in the deterioration of the relationship has led to the situation that the budget has become over-burdened. The obligation to pay the net pension has fallen as much as 40% to the Republic's budget, with a trend in increasing that relationship. For these very reasons, reforms have been made to adapt the system with economic potential of the budget in terms of an increase in the retirement age, tightening the payment control for PIO, reducing administrative costs and a number of other measures that have taken a sustainable solution to increase the budget. On the other hand, the best possible framework for reducing pensioner and insurance relations is to bring new investors and thus create new jobs. The measures of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act are closely linked to the development of the economy, especially the private sector. The visible economic growth, inflow of foreign and domestic capital opens up the possibility of a drastic increase in labour force, thus also filling the budget through payment of contributions. I deeply believe that the reforms carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are historic, I believe that this is how we saved the state from bankruptcy and that, as all economic parameters show, we are on the right track to be absolute leaders not only in the Balkans in a few years, but also much wider than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43534	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Birmanevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43535	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, all pensions, regardless of the level and regardless of how and the period since they started to be accepted, will be increased by 10% and will be returned to the level that was before the law was introduced in 2014. That's what's true, and that's what this government is behind, but so is this National Assembly. What is important and what I have to say for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the citizens is that those who claim to have returned something in 2000 when they took responsibility for this Serbia, let them say when they will return everything they have ruined from 2000 to 2012 and let them not try and do not try to protect the pensioners and citizens because they are not asking for that protection. What they know very well is that the future and pensioners, but also those who now work and all other citizens, those who are born and those who will be born, depends on this government, on the president of the Republic of Serbia, but of course also on the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who ultimately brings all the laws and will not hide anyone from this assembly majority behind anyone else. We are responsible for the decisions together with the Government and the President of the Republic. What citizens will never forgive you is just ruined Serbia, destroyed factories, 500,000 jobs and those 500,000 jobs without which they have left a very difficult period, a very difficult period precisely for 500,000 families who have survived primarily thanks to their abilities and in 2012 recognized the opportunity and finally got the real government, the real president and the responsibility that has positive results. Who will return everything that has been ruined by 2012, is a very difficult issue, and from economy, agriculture, health, culture, everything has been ruined. Sutanovac, as minister, left greater consequences for tools, weapons and Serbia's Army some NATO bombing, and ministers who had led their ministries in the past only thought in a narrow circle, i.e. in the shortest circle that did not look at citizens, and at least looked at pensioners. What we had in the PIO Fund in earlier periods is, of course, the very big problems that have been inherited and which in 2012 fell on the shoulders of this government, but precisely the measures in 2014 and the management of the PIO fund we have a stable situation, among other things, a host in this PIO fund, and we know that in every family and in every house, and in every company, the host is responsible, the director is responsible. The most responsible person in the Republic of Serbia is, of course, the President of the Republic of Serbia and it is that simple. This country has its host, has its president. I will remind you that last week we had the address of a senior representative from India who said that for 30 years no one, absolutely no one from Serbia has found fit to visit India, and just now Alexander Vukic, along with his associates, has managed to visit all the countries that have given us the hand and who want to co-operate with Serbia. What's true is that we've stopped existing, that no one's paying attention to what Serbia thinks anymore, because they didn't have anyone to talk to. The situation has changed dramatically in six years. What is most important, not only for pensioners, but for all citizens in Serbia, is that this Serbia has stability of the budget, has stability of the government, has a stability of course, has a real president who knows and who has to bear a burden that is, of course, great, but simply does not run away from it. With the help of the government, with the help of this congregation majority, the results will certainly be better, and the citizens see it as no regrettable and inventing a struggle for pensioners' rights from those who have just led the pensioners to the beggar stick is necessary. What I mean to say for the end, pensioners don't ask you for protection, they also showed in the elections who will protect them, who will represent them, the voters said, and there simply isn't any other way, except for Alexander Vukic's path and this coalition government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43536	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Bulatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43537	I thank the chairman. On the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, I submit an amendment to Article 1 in the sense of adding a new position 2 which reads - This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rule of law. When we talk today about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, it is not disputed that the arrival of Alexander Vukic as prime minister in 2014, in the Pcinj County and Vranj, as his seat, began to solve problems that have been pushed under the carpet for decades and years. Today, Serbia's development, unequivocally implies both the development of Vranj and the Pcinj County. Many examples are that the country's relationship to Vranj and the south has changed, and perhaps the best because production is preserved in the companies Simpo and Jumko in Vranj. Today, about four thousand workers work in these two companies. In Simpa, there are 2300 workers working in its factories in Vranje, Bujanovac, Presevo and Surdulica, and preparations are under way for reconstruction and refurbishing of equipment at the Simpa factory in Zubin stream, where hundreds of other workers should be employed. Otherwise, the "Simpa" factory in the Zubi stream has not worked since 2013. The situation in Jumka is a little different. Jumko has arranged jobs by the end of 2018 and throughout the next 2019. Jumko opened a new plant in the Black grass where he works about 40 workers, and soon another plant is expected to be opened, i.e. the Despotovac plant. In addition, in Bujanovac, Jumko expanded production and employed 120 workers there. In addition to this, it started with the work and drive of ballistics, which was personally opened by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and has already signed the first contract, which represents a major development opportunity for Jumko. The fact is that without these two companies, the development of Vranj cannot be imagined, as the headquarters of the Pcinj County and South Serbia, and just now our President Aleksandar Vukic, the Government and Resort Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Interior and others are the most deserved what more than four thousand workers are doing in them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43538	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Matić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43539	Thank you, my amendment to Article 1. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act primarily refers to the sustainability of pension payments through the prism of business and local self-government activities. It has already been said a lot about restrictive measures, which had to be taken for Serbia to stand on its feet, primarily economically, and given that pensions have touched from the state budget, even up to 40%, this means that the Republic of Serbia's budget has been reduced to the possibility of speeding up the economy, to reduce infrastructure investment, to reduce investment in the public sector, as well as any other giving that serves the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It had to, primarily train the economy, which fills the pension-inhabitation budget, as well as the state budget, and only so could stability and regular pension payments. The vast majority of pensioners, they do not ask questions, as is asked here by some MPs of the opposition, they simply seem to understand the situation better, they understand the difficulties, they understand the moves of this country headed by Alexander Vukic, how they can be able to train, primarily the pension-inhabited budget, and he can only be able to fit the way in which the economy is raised and can only be able to get regular pension payments, which is ultimately done, and these pensioners understand and understand today very well. This is where you ask the question of getting your pension back, etc. However, if the state, the economy stands well, it is well and full of its funds, these funds will be paid out of giving or pensions, so if it is full, there will also be stability, regularity and pension increases. It's part of the answer that questions are being asked here. Furthermore, the contribution of local self-government to all or today's changes and additions to the PIO Law should primarily relate to the development of the economy in its local communities, increased employment, increased staff to pay contributions to the PIO budget, as well as to the tax on the state budget. From this, pensioners are returned to pensioners the possibility of regular pensions. The stronger the local self-government, the stronger and the more economically strong Serbia is. A economically strong Serbia provides a sustainable system of real and stable pensions, which is why pensioners themselves are the most responsible and I congratulate them from this place on their contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43540	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43541	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which is amended in Article 12 of the same law, adds a new position 2 which reads – This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to improving business. This amendment further defines Article 1 of this Act. The proposed amendment aims to encourage the development of the Republic of Serbia, to make better use of the economic potential and economic resources available to our country, which implies and leads to improvements and improvements in business. The development of the Republic of Serbia is a priority of this government. Development is stimulated through the fight through the reduction of the grey economy and work on black, and people as an economic resource become more appreciated and protected. Self-employed insurance undertakings within the meaning of Article 12. The Law on PIO, the proposed amendments and additions become a valuable economic resource, contribute more to the country's development and can be sure that their rights will be respected in accordance with the law. The development of the country, the improvement of business and better access to economic resources in this case for people, as part of the country's economic resources remains the priority of this government which, through the adoption of this law, confirms that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43542	"Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43543	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, my amendment to Article 1 refers to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the protection of vulnerable social groups. I must say that only responsible, economic policy is a prerequisite for responsible social policy and a prerequisite for the responsible social protection function that the state has in accordance with the Constitution according to the most vulnerable citizens. I must say that responsible economic policy was led by then by the prime minister, and now President Aleksandar Vukic, and since 2014. The results of this responsible, economic policies are now seen in the surplus three years in a row in the Republic of Serbia's budget, seen in a decline in unemployment below 12% is a decline in unemployment. They are seen in the inflow of foreign investment, as Serbia is the leader in attracting foreign investment. Why attracting foreign investment is important. Because it directly affects the increase in the number of jobs and thus the increase in the number of insurance companies, i.e. those who pay contributions and taxes for pension and disability insurance and health care, and this automatically means filling the budget as well as the budgets of the Republic Fund of PIO. I must say that almost the biggest economic patriotism has been shown by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, on a recent visit to the People's Republic of China, when, after that visit, together with ministers, contracts and agreements are worth three billion dollars, which will certainly result in new investments, new jobs and a better life and the standard of all our citizens. I have to look around that we've heard sermons today from those who robbed the country, robbed its citizens, robbed children distracted in development through the slide construction of the "Hetherland" castle, which, of course, has never been built, through the robbery of the most attractive agricultural land in downtown Belgrade, again under the pretext of some day-to-day building for children. Also, we heard sermons from those who, in the roughest way possible, perhaps with their ignorance, and perhaps with their ultimate intention, robbed military pensioners in 2008 and, of course, returned the government of Alexander Vukic. Of course, I must point out that here we have heard sermons today and from those whose criteria are values of sexual abuse, mental abuse, physical abuse, deception, lies, which seem to be the only political idea of naked hatred for Alexander Vukic, and knowledge of the economy extends farthest to that, to their full pockets, which are based on the robbery of the people and, of course, the tycoon money. When it comes to the protection of vulnerable social groups, I must say that this bill provides for the protection of the most vulnerable pensioners, through the payment of one-time cash aid, exactly in line with economic opportunities. All that the opposition is saying is that payouts and pensions should not be in line with one country's economic capabilities, it's a clean waste of dust, pure deception and a lie by Serbian citizens. Only from the real economy, the only real GDP growth can grow and pay and pensions and the time has come. Pensioners have borne a huge burden of fiscal consolidation, but that's why October's checks, paid out on November 10th this year, will be increased by 18%, by 13% compared to October 2014. Pensions will increase year after year because the SNS target is further economic growth and the country's recovery and the results will also be shown in improving the standard of living of all citizens, particularly pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43544	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lakatoš, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43545	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, four years ago when the Retirement Law came into effect, the state was facing bankruptcy because of a disastrous policy that was led until then. It was necessary to take heavy reform measures, and the greatest burden was borne by pensioners. But these very unpopular measures have led to the state's recovery and have made for a better future for young people. The responsible policy of our government, fighting for new jobs, bringing foreign investors, increasing the number of employees, is the basis for budgeting. Real opportunities have been created to increase pensions from 8.8% to 13.2%. Voting this law allows pensioners to receive increased October pensions to be paid in November. It is very important to point out that there is enough money in the budget for this increase, that there was no need to rebalance the budget. Our oldest citizens are responsible for the successful reforms that have been implemented. Thanks to them, public finances are now stable in the long term, and on this basis it is realistic to expect an increase in pensions and next year. The Law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act brings positive changes to the benefit of both current and future pensioners. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill further defines Article 1 of this law, and the proposed law should support it because the bill also establishes a legal basis that gives the possibility to pay the cash amount as an increase in pensions depending on the economic movements and financial opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which will certainly be greater than today, given the continued growth of GDP and the accelerated development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43546	Thank you. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Karadzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43547	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted this amendment with a desire to highlight the importance of the fact that the overall development of our country has been permeated through every law, because it is in fact the only and fundamental objective of our country. The amendments and additions to the Law on PIO, which are now in front of us, clearly point to the seriousness of the government’s leadership, which the government shows, of the responsibility it is willing to take. We all know that the state has not left in a great position and the years that have led us and the actions have led us to have the need for rigorous reforms that we have had to implement, but they have produced excellent results. We have an indication of the courage of the policy being conducted. The responsibility to reduce pensions in 2014 has been assumed and a positive result of the reforms can be seen today. The fact is that pensions today are up 9% to 13% than in 2014 and that's the right way to go. Let's just remind ourselves that in 2014, 400,000 people lost their jobs, that unemployment was 27%. Today the situation is a little different. We have 70 new companies and over 150,000 new employees who allow the budget to be filled and allow economic parameters to improve, and thus to increase both wages and pensions. What's most important is that all of this is done on a healthy basis, without loans, but with the policy we're running. An economically stronger country with a steady increase in surpluses in the budget allows political stability. Political stability is what we need most. That's why I support continuing this way. I hope my colleagues will support the amendment I've submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43548	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, it would not be possible to deal with legislative proposals like what we are discussing today that there is no proper relationship with the need for the development of the Republic of Serbia and this is precisely the subject of an amendment to Article 1. It would not be possible, ladies and gentlemen, because, as has been repeatedly highlighted during today's debate by SNS MPs, without proper attitude towards development. Without a proper relationship with our economy, there's no way we can do important things. The corresponding relationship involves, say, the relationship to investment, which we also talked about today and is indeed a handful of great examples, extremely good examples of how it is done today in the right way. One of them certainly is a visit to the People's Republic of China, which resulted in several important agreements. The president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, personally attended the conclusion of an agreement such as, say, one that represents a good long-term solution for RTB "Bor" with investments worth $1.4 billion, or a $1 billion investment contract in the town of Zrenjanin, or a $1 billion contract for Zrenjanin and the environment related to a $100m zinc processing plant or, for example, for example, an Icarbus contract, also worth millions of dollars. These are really great examples. Without them and before them, Serbia is today an absolute leader when it comes to investment in the region. Today, these are official data from relevant international institutions, we attract more investment as a state than other countries in the region attract all together. And this is a good example and strong evidence that today in Serbia is doing the right thing, that today a society of successful people is being formed, all the opposite of that DOS Palanka that some have only been able to work in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43550	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? I'm a colleague of Krikapic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43551	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted Amendment 1 to Article 1 of this Law, which promotes the development of our country with an emphasis on economically less developed municipalities. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, which will repeal, among other things, the Law on the Temporary Regulation on how pensions are paid, i.e. the new law will establish a legal basis giving the Government the possibility of payment. We know that the pension system is important for every country in the social, economic and financial population. Pensions are, above all, a social category, because they represent the income of people who are not able to earn their living because of sickness or age, and there is a need for the help and care of the state, but are also an economic category because with long-term payments when the population is working actively to make funds in the name of savings for age. Finally, pensions are also a financial category, because they are part of public spending, and as a part of the public finances of a state. The fiscal consolidation measures that we had brought three and a half years ago were a major undertaking that had social significance, by affecting existential issues, but political importance, which was less important to us, because we knew that we had to cut pensions because Serbia threatened bankruptcy. We had a difficult task, because by coming to power we found the country not with the weak, but with a broken economy, but the citizens of Serbia understood us in the right way, we had full support for what we were doing, and in particular the support of the pensioners, who had borne the greatest burden of the previous years and deserved that in the years ahead, they lived calmer, calmer, without fear, could they afford themselves and their grandchildren at least some small pleasures. Finally, the best way to function is to pass laws and a series of sublegal acts, which is what we do and thus round up a system that provides greater legal certainty for pensioners. We have restored citizens' trust in the state and institutions of the PIO Fund, which is of great importance for the development of the economy of a country, so I have proposed Amendment 1 to Article 1. The Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43552	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? She is a colleague of Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43553	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, respected pensioners, this amendment further defines Article 1 of this Law. At its session held on 23 September 2015, the Constitutional Court found that there was no basis for the initiation of a procedure for establishing the non-constitutional law on the temporary arrangements for the payment of pensions, that the intervention measures introduced for the financial sustainability of the pension system were a legitimate objective of public importance, and that the restriction of property rights under certain conditions is allowed under our Constitution, but also under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is true that at its session of 23 September 2015, the Constitutional Court observed that the initiator’s claim that the pension acquired under the law represented the property of the pensioner, but also found that there is no basis for the initiation of the procedure for establishing the non-constitutional law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid, since the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not result in a guarantee of pension giving in a certain amount. For the sake of our citizens of pensioners, I will read in full a statement that was then published on its website by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia: "The Constitutional Court closed the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions were paid. “ Following an analysis of the provisions of the contested law, he found from the point of view of all the relevant allegations and initiators that there was no basis for launching proceedings to determine the unconstitution of this law and its disagreement with the approved international contracts. The Constitutional Court found that the contested law follows the introduction of intervention measures taken in order to safeguard the financial sustainability of the pension system in terms of conditions of the economic crisis, which specifically means the possibility of a regular pension payment. In this regard, the Constitutional Court was of particular importance that the prescribed measures do not apply to pensioners whose pensions are established to up to 25,000 dinars, which, according to the court's data, have more than 750 000 in the Republic, and which, given the total number of pensioners and pensions in Serbia, actually means that the largest number of pensioners does not cover the prescribed measures. In view of the fact that at this point, the lowest pension established under the Law on PIO amounts to just over 13,000 dinars, which is for the so-called so-called ‘PIO’. The "agricultural pensioners" of the lowest pension of as many as 10,000 dinars, the Constitutional Court estimated that the protected amount of 25 000 dinars on the real economic occasions in which the society is located, provided by the contested law for the custody of the economic security of pensioners, representing the constitutional order set out in Article 70(2). The Constitution. Thanks to the responsible SNS policy, led by Aleksandra Vukic, unlike those who have destroyed health institutions, intensive development in the area of health care and the fact that many hospitals have been restored and restructured and new equipment acquired after decades of collapse has certainly contributed to improving health conditions and improving the quality of life of all our citizens. The SNS will vote on this and other proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43554	I thank you, the People's MP, Tiana Davidovec, has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) A colleague of David’s. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43555	I thank the President-in-Office - Dear Ministers with Associates, Ladies and gentlemen People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on PIO which we adapted four years ago to the current economic situation because, according to the IMF's assessment, Serbia was in front of bankruptcy and we have no place to pay off pensions. The coming of the SNS to power has joined serious reforms to recover the devastated economy we have encountered, which has been left to us by people who today and in this Parliament do not have a shred of face, some of their demands and they are allegedly protecting the interests of our oldest citizens. You've been the ones who've been destroying our economy for years. You're the ones who've been destroying the PIO fund for years. You're the ones who sold and closed factories and left thousands and thousands of people on the streets. Then you didn't worry about how those people would feed their families. The result of your work was 30% unemployment. As a result of your privatisations, 500,000 people were left out on the street and out of work. Is that how you thought you'd pay our oldest citizens' pensions? With the responsibility of our president, Alexander Vukic, and implemented reforms that many did not believe in, unemployment is no longer 30 but below 12%. We didn't close any factories, but we open them, because that's our personal interest, and that's the personal interest of the SNS people, that we have a surplus in the budget for the third year in a row, that GDP growth is among the two highest growth rates in Europe at the moment, and your interest, the personal interest, was to be in your bank accounts of growth. The Serbian Progressive Party has managed to stabilise public finances with its policy responsible, and our oldest citizens have contributed greatly and are responsible for the successful reforms that have been implemented. And today we're in a situation where we can pay off our pensions from real sources. What I said was only a small part of what the Government is headed by Aleksandra Vukic, and today, led by Ana Brnabic, managed to do for our citizens and our country, so that we would no longer be invisible and that the countries of investors in the environment, but also from around the world would not avoid us in every way, which was the result of their long-standing work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43556	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Martinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djordjevic, here, I will use your presence to draw attention to what is happening to the citizens of Serbia these days, and it is about the protests of individual parties and NGOs against the Government of the Republic of Serbia, related to the recent changes to the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children. Who's behind these protests? At first we understand each other, it is legitimate to protest in the Republic of Serbia, and as you can see, no one has sent a bad word to those who protested, but in order for Serbian citizens to know, they need to be reminded of who are the inspirers of these protests. Inspires of these protests are people who care little about women, children, and the demographic future of Serbia. One of the main inspirers of this protest is the NGO Media Group, led by his own brother Goran Jesic, Vladimir Jesic, and who otherwise owns the Bebac portal. Now, how did the Bebac portal come into existence? The Bebac portal was created in June, Mr. Minister, by paying about 57,000 euros from the AP's budget to the NGO Media Group and Vladimir Jesic, as its director, to launch the portal. At the time, the circuit secretary, who was in charge of this problem, was Milos Lucic, otherwise Jesic's godfather. Based on these funds, which have been paid out of the AP Vojvodina budget, Vladimir Jesic has created the Bebac portal and also a company "Cord IPS", which deals with an investment business related to stem cells, and you can also check that through the Agency for Business Registers website, has an annual turnover of several million euros. The same Vladimir Jesic otherwise boasted that his company Media Group and this other company, which still deals with stem cells today, financed the DS campaign at the time of the party's run by Dragan Djilas. Why am I saying all this? This is what I'm saying to the Serbian citizens to know that those who are attacking the Serbian government today, who proposed to the Assembly measures that absolutely no government has proposed in the past 50 years, which concerns Serbia's democratic future, that this government and those of us who have supported it in all of this are attacking our political insolence, insolently manipulating women, mothers and children. If that were the case, here, I will also give you an example that one of the main organizers of these protests is named, if I am wrong, "Moms are the law" by Tatjana Macura, she publicly boasted, MP DS Balša Bozovic, a DS MP in the Vojvodine Assembly, at least she was, I don't know, Marijane, whether she was still Jelena Beba Balasevic. And what's very interesting, Mr. Minister, is that the citizens of Serbia know, one of those who most supported these protests called "Moms are the law," do you know who it was? Bojan Pajtic. The man who gave these 57,000 euros to Vladimir Jesic to create the Bebac portal, and in fact, through the portal and over two companies that came out of the portal in fact to finance the DS campaign. So, dear citizens, you can feel free to protest if you are dissatisfied with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but to know that the protests were initiated by those who disagree politically with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and who want to be hidden, because who today would go into protests behind Bojan Pajtic and similar to him, and then they realized that they would plant several women, several mothers and say, "Here, these are women and these are mothers who are dissatisfied with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is important for Serbian citizens to know, to understand and to know that the funds from the Vojvodina budget, the funds from Serbia's budget, created private companies, from which individuals have become rich, are individuals who today represent so-called. Alliance for Serbia. What's also very interesting is that today one DS MP, who, I think, is telling you enough how much this Alliance for Serbia is one serious political coalition. In fact, Mr. Radoslav Milojic published on his Facebook account today the following sentences: "People see no sense of staying in Serbia since SNS continued DS policy. Bosko Obradovic just said. I'm asking DS management if something happened in that alliance or if it's an DS punching bag? “ Why am I saying this? In the morning, MP Bosko Obradovic feared the best and strongest possible political coalition in Serbia in the past 15 years, which will blow the SNS out of power, that we will soon have nothing to look for on Serbia's political scene. And here, as you can see, already today his coalition partners are attacking him and asking if their party is a punching bag. Why am I saying this? The Serbian Progressive Party will one day leave power and there is nothing disputed. There is no party that has been in power forever in a democratic pluralist society. But, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and dear citizens of Serbia, if someone ever beats us, it certainly won't be Bojan Pajtic, it certainly won't be Goran Jesic, it certainly won't be Bosko Obradovic, it will certainly not be Dusan Petrovic Shane, who these days beats political opponents in Capac. A whole new political force will have to appear on Serbia's political scene to defeat Alexander Vukic and to defeat the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43558	On what grounds do you want the word, colleague Jerkov? (Alexandra Jerkov: same as the amendment.) ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43559	I'd say the same thing as a colleague by amendment. He said he actually wanted to draw attention to one topic, so we can report on the amendment to talk about those topics that we think are being distracted. This topic is quite good which Mr. Martinovic has started, so since we are talking about laws that are not on the agenda, we can also talk about this law that Mr. Martinovic is talking about and needs first, Mr. Arsic, to tell him that it is a shame that women who came out on the streets yesterday and all those who wanted to support them are declaring some pawns in the game I don't know what they are and what they declare to be for people who are instrumentalized by any party. I am sorry that none of the MPs who voted for the law yesterday were there to talk to pregnant women, to talk to their families, to talk to all those women who today in Serbia should not get pregnant and dare to get pregnant because of the system that you've made, which nobody wanted to hear what those are, the demands of the mother, who are the demands of the pregnant women, what all the problems are due to the laws that this assembly majority adopted, and this minister, Djordjevic, who sits here, who did not want to hear from you what your measures of birth policy are, and what a fraud is to what you say to those women. You still haven't found a way to help those women who still face problems today just because they got pregnant. Minister Djordjevic is unable to talk about the law for five minutes without talking about the maternity mafia, manipulations and abuses in the system, but as your President Vukic tells us all the time here, everyone is moving around in a circle of their own corruption, so whoever is prone to abuses, probably sees abuses in everything, probably seeing abuses and women being the problem they need to do 18 months to live with dignity and somehow survive when they have a child. It is probably an abuse of the minister and all of you that women have to choose between whether they will receive a fee that belongs to them if they have given birth to a child with developmental disorders or if they will receive other people's help for child care, it is likely by you that women are complaining that today they get fired when they get pregnant, which employers still find ways to question them about whether they want a family, whether they have children, whether it depends on their employment and progress, and God and staying at work. It's probably an abuse for you and what the civil servant said, in fact, which is government policy, that employers need women to work, not women to give birth, because that woman has only said out loud and very clumsyly what you've been doing since you came to power. She's being punished or punished, we haven't sent the epilogue to the end, and the truth is that the punished should be the ones who came up with such a policy. She's the only thing she could possibly answer for is some kind of state secret or doesn't know what she could fit, because she's been very clumsy about what you're actually doing and these measures that you've adopted, and this fake commercial about how pregnant women, births will be better than ever, how children will be more than ever, because all you've been doing since you came to power, is that you've been tripping at every step of women who try to start a family, to have children, to have a job, and despite your efforts to survive. The fact that you place these women in some kind of instrumentalized object, or I don't know what, speaks more about you than anything any political opponent of yours can say. You in anyone who fights for their rights see an enemy of the state. You in anyone who points to some problem in some law see a criminal, a tycoon or a traitor, but that's what you've been doing for 30 years, so now with these women you just keep doing it. It's a shame every MP who wasn't there with them yesterday. I don't need to blush because you're calling us here for it. You gentlemen should be blushing because yesterday you weren't there with them in front of the government and you didn't even hear what they had to say. I know what you're gonna do after this. I can imagine a salva of insults to come. You can read both tweets and Facebooks and instagrams and all the living social networks that exist. The point is that you have passed a law that makes life difficult for women who are planning a family, who are pregnant or who have given birth to children in this country. That no insult of yours will change, and you, gentlemen, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43560	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43561	First of all, I have absolutely no intention of insulting you, Mrs. Jerkov. What I'm trying to say is that we in the SNS voted to amend the Financial Support Act to families with children who wrote, among other things, the following. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia, not for you. "A parental allowance for the first child born on 1 July 2018 and later is determined at 100,000 dinars and is paid once. Parental allowance for the second child born on 1 July 2018 and is later established at 240,000 dinars and is paid in 24 equal monthly wars, at 10,000 dinars. A parental allowance for a third child born on 1 July 2018 and is later determined at 1,440,000 dinars and is paid in 120 equal monthly wars, at 12,000 dinars. Parental allowance for the fourth child born on 1 July 2018 and is later established at 2,160,000 dinars and is paid in 120 equal monthly wars, at 18 000 dinars. “ Are these numbers that make us SNS and all those who voted for this red? Should we be ashamed of this? I think it should be a shame for those who attack these measures. These measures were adopted in 2001, 2002, 2005, in 2008, Serbia would not be in such a demographic situation as it is in, and it should be a shame for you who financed the portals with 57,000 euros to finance your campaign. That's what the province administration in Vojvodina was for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43562	The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43563	Just for the sake of true truth and for the sake of our viewers, and also for your messengers, to hear the truth in fact. I'll tell you because I can't talk, and I think I can talk about this law much longer than the MP said. First, I'm proud that Serbia, when we look at all the countries in the world, is the country that cares most about its mothers and what it is... (Alexandra Jerkov: Oh, my God! )......................................................................................................... The news is that we will worry even more, as much as you shout – Oh, my God, about these mothers. You can look at it, and we've also put all the land on our site, how much it gives and how long it takes. I'll tell you what. The largest democracy, U.S.A., foster parents are entitled to three months of sick leave, and the fee is zero dollars or zero dinars. You heard right, zero dinars for three months. We have Scandinavian countries that are worse than us, which are ahead of us. Serbia gives 12 months, 24 months or five years depending on the need and then it makes up 100%. Serbia is no different from the EU countries when it comes to calculating compensation, even in EU countries, this fee is sometimes more rigorous, because it is divided literally according to how much you gave to the state, how much you want to use it maternityly. In Serbia, when you talk about other people's care and help, you know, when you want to abuse something, then of course you can use something like that and abuse what one MP and mother said. Other people's care and help provided by the Ministry of Labour is for mothers who want to work and stop sick, and that the state gives money to care for a child who needs care and help. All other attachments, medications, aids, and everything else is in one law and these mothers are told. I tell you MPs that I have spoken to the Minister of Health and that we are ready to see how and in what way this other law can be even wider and to give these mothers even greater benefits, but other people's care and assistance from this budget is meant for mothers when they want to work, and the state to finance that someone else cares about that child while they work. So there's no confusion. Secondly, there is a fixed and variable fee. You said something about that landline, so will I. The variable fee is something that has to do with the pension law. So, as much as someone pays, that's how much they get because it's his right to get from as much as he's paid taxes and contributions. Do not forget that even in these cases, the state does not account for taxes and contributions, but rather takes a net salary on which it then pays taxes and contributes 12, 24 or five years. It's also some cost of a state that should be given to mothers and not disputed. There's also that fixed part that we're talking about, and that's the difference between the past and the present, that we want to give these mothers even more, and that's these amounts that no one's talking about today, that we're giving for the third and fourth children for ten years. In addition, there is a children's supplement, and there is also that no one talks, which is the same state money and money of Serbian citizens, every local self-government, out of its budget gives each family no matter what this is. So, every local self-government more or less, according to its capabilities gives. I'm telling all of you again, that's a little bit. Last year it was 52 billion, this year it's going to be 58 billion, and don't forget, we have fewer children, we want to turn the wheel and have more children. For next year, I'm asking the finance minister to be 64 billion. Simple mathematics says that when we have the same children, we give more. That's what Serbian citizens need to know. They must know in one transparent way who is given and given, and that is the fundamental difference between what is happening today and what happened in 2000. I don't want to hide from you how and how these mothers are given, and that's very transparent. It is agreed with the prime minister to even make a commission, that any mother who has any objection to anything and if she considers any of this to be well accounted for, would come to the ministry and get written why, as well as what was given, why it is so accounted for. If there is an error, it will be paid otherwise. When it comes to three and five net salaries, we understand that, but you'll see in some subsequent amendment and the addition of the law, it will be corrected, and surely if the mothers to whom it has been denied appear will be returned. What matters is we're not gonna stop at this. The law on financial support for the family with children is just the beginning of changes and additions. We want our measures to succeed, we want to adapt our measures to the economic abilities of the country and give mothers more. There will be a change and a supplement, not one, but I believe every year at least one, but not because someone is criticizing us, because someone is pretending to love mothers more than the rest of us, but because we as a state want to give these mothers and we want them to be more and more. It's the only real truth. Everything else is flat. Let's talk about how and how to improve our country, because from our success, from the success of the economy, from the success of investors coming, we have bigger salaries, they pay taxes and contributions, and those mothers will have more. They can't have mothers from anything, and we're used to having something out of nothing sometimes, but then somebody's got to get it back, and that's what we're doing back today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43564	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43565	Thank you. Article 106, adherence to the agenda. So, the Financial Support Act with the children isn't on the agenda right now. There is a proposal that a colleague of Tatjana Macura, along with our MP group, submitted to the National Assembly. If you could ask your colleagues on the opposite side of the hall not to disturb me while I explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and not to earn it. Thank you. So if we're going to discuss the Financial Support Act with the children, there's a bill that I urge the ruling majority to accept the proposal to put it on the agenda and we'll be very happy to discuss it with the minister then, as we did in previous days informally, when we met on other occasions in this building, about it. There's nothing casual and not transparent, it's very precise and it's very transparent, a woman gets a solution to 900 dinars. Those women organized themselves yesterday and went out on the street. It's really not nice, and now I'm most honest, using their self-organization in which their colleague Macura has helped them to abuse it now in some political conflict with some other parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43566	You've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43567	That's right, to draw attention to the debate beyond the agenda and to the example of the debate beyond the agenda. Please, don't mention these women in this way in the context of your calculation again, mention them when you discuss their demands and when they are adopted. I thank you on their behalf the most human, the warmest and warmest in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43568	Thank you, but we really jumped in your case from the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I thought it was an intention to return, but obviously you kept talking about the topic that's going on today. The word is Alexander Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43569	Member of 107. Mrs Gojkovic, I do not insult women, mothers, children, I just want to inform Serbian citizens that the protests are not spontaneous. This is Tatjana Macura's letter with a "mommy's the law" shirt. This is Mr. Bosko Obradović with Sanda Raskovic Ivić "mothers are the law", and in this photo are all mothers, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić etc. All the moms themselves, dissatisfied with the benefits they receive from the state. I don't see Zoran Zivkovic, I'm a little bit of a stalemate, but there must have been 500,000 euros in this endless column of 50 people. Why am I showing all this? I have no objection and no objection to anyone in this country being against the measures brought by the Serbian Government, which was supported by the Serbian Parliament, but I do not mind that you distract the citizens that something is spontaneous, and you yourself know that you have organised this because of the great anger and hatred that you show towards Alexander Vukic, you no longer know what you will do, so now you are going to abuse women and children. This is the worst possible abuse of women and children. This is the front row of the protest and first row Mr Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and behind Balša Bozovica Goran Ćirić. Please answer the question your colleague from the DS referred to, is your party a punching bag for Bosko Obradovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43570	The word is Mihajlo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43571	I wanted to say something, to supplement what Comrade Martinovic said. This evil that's coming to us, these strikes that are being organized, which are going to be more and more coming and paying off with a dollar. The greatest evil in the world is a dollar. That's what I'm talking about. It's the reserve currency of all the countries of the world, except America. That's why it's the world's fault that he let a dollar be printed on an unlimited show. In 1981, the dollar had a gold base and 38 dollars was an ounce of gold. That's when Nixon seemed to be. After that, the world allowed the dollar to be broadcast like toilet paper. Americans can market as much as they want dollars and those dollars they broadcast, where the world's reserves were 88%, today they're 33%, because the Chinese and the Russians are fighting to replace the dollar. So what's happening to us and what's going to get worse comes from dollars and dollars. And we have to fight our fight against the dollar and we have to run trade exchanges all over the world in national currencies, get the dollar back into its frames and make the dollar as a dinar and all the other currencies have their basis. Until we do, there won't be any peace in the world and we won't have any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43572	Dear MP, knowing Ambassador Martinovic, he is a gentleman, not so much. So that's where you made one mistake. So Martinovic's not a friend, he's a gentleman. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next amendment. Dr Dragana Barisic submitted a letter to the First Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43573	I would like to thank the Honorable President. Dear Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the first member of this law in order to further define this law which is very important, and above all, before the start of this exhibition I would like to thank our citizens, our pensioners who have supported all those reform laws, and all in order to prevent the safe bankruptcy of our country. The bankruptcy was brought by those who accuse us all the time, who talk about submitting such amendments, they certainly call us ugly, and they forgot what kind of state they left in 2012. Some colleagues here say that they cared for mothers and pregnant women. Well, I was a victim of a yellow company and in 2002 I was out of a job just because I wasn't a member of that clan. Let's just ask their representative at the cruise hospital, the doctor who's a doctor now who knows where, who didn't want to take me to work as the mother of a little girl. Apparently, she asked me for an adequate place, and there was an adequate place everywhere, but I was just probably not alike because I didn't want to sign that book, that damn yellow card. Now they're taking care of our pregnant women, taking care of the maternity care, and what they were doing, that's what we had a chance to see what kind of condition we found in 2012. What's very important is that our citizens see who's leading us to the right path, who's bringing us to stable feet. Here, we've managed to fix the situation for the past few years, fix the state, prevent safe bankruptcy, and here we are, and we're passing laws that will lead to an increase in pensions. Of course we're not gonna stop at this and work on all the fields. Here, we had a chance a few days ago to see that much has been done for the health system, and I have submitted this amendment to further define this law and that the overall development of the Republic of Serbia will also reflect the development of the health system. What do you say? Seven and a half million euros were invested in the Tirshaw Clinic, so isn't that enough? Not only that, there's a lot of money spent getting new appliances and instruments, and of course we're not gonna stop at that, let's move on. That's why we have huge citizens' support. They are not helped by any alliances for Serbia, as they are seen to be alliances to fail and not enough of what they robbed the state by 2012, but through these alliances they would again. Well, my dear colleagues, they won't be able to, because the citizens have read you and made it clear to you that the elections in the elections say they won't. You belong in a political dump, and here you go with safe steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43574	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43575	Honorable presidents, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen fellow MPs, there are people who only know that they spend even though it's completely unrealistic, there are political parties and individuals who don't even know how to get the funds and how to charge the budget, who are willing to spend what doesn't exist, what doesn't exist. We've just replaced those with power, to improve the situation in this country that was after them disastrously. Not to go back to Smederevska Palanka, where I came from, and to mention the problems we found there, total wasteland, and from these people we hear pensions need to be increased. Where do you raise your pensions from? From what sources do you increase pensions? The pensioners have taken the burden. We haven't heard a single protest from the pensioners. Today, when we have far better people's employment, when we have realistic grounds to increase pensions, we are doing so in a way that the Fund allows us to do so and the budget that is now being touched by the Pension Fund by 30%, and you know that the budget's participation was 60%. Much of the infrastructure was done thanks to Alexander Vukic. Infrastructure is needed to bring investors. By bringing investors, where they have not yet come, we will also employ those citizens who do not work and reduce the budget's participation in pension payments. It's the way it's done, the way it's supposed to be done, and the only thing that's spent is the real thing that's earned. I expect that in the next period, I say, besides a lot of investors who have come to big cities and some less, and where we still don't have investments, investors come. We also have a balanced development of this country and, I say, we can actually pay off bigger pensions. What does that have to do with budget stabilisation and budget stabilisation? Normally, pensioners will spend the money in this country and it will at least partially return to Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43576	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43577	President-in-Office, honourable ministers with fellow Members, honourable Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which is amended in Article 12 of the current Law on PIO by adding a new position that reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to strengthening and improving the judicial system. Article 12, existing law, stipulates who are all self-employed insurance companies, and in Article 2 of this Article states that the work, within the meaning of Article 1(2) of this Article, is also considered to represent and represent companies by their founders, or members on the basis of enrolment in the register of a competent organisation. The proposed amendment and addition of Article 12(2) of the current PIO law provides that the work is also understood as representing and representing companies by their founders, i.e. members on the basis of enrolment in the register of competent organisations. In this way, this norm is in line with the provisions of the Business Society Act. Amendments and additions to the PIO Act are adopted within the framework of the start of the reform of this system in order to further regulate and create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, which will ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. Due to the positive developments in the country's economy and the financial situation of the Republic's budget, the need for the implementation of the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid, so that the law is abolished at the end of September 30, 2018, as President Aleksandar Vukic promised when adopting this law, which was necessary at that time, in order to consolidate the budget and financial situation. In the voting day, I will vote for this law, as well as for the other laws that are on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43578	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43579	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the amendment aims to encourage the financing of cultural institutions, which affects the improvement of living standards and the quality of life. Significant support for culture, we'll all agree, is to improve the quality of life and living conditions. How in this set of laws that we are discussing is the law confirming the EU Council Convention on Cinema Co-production, I am singled out the film as part of a culture, hoping that the Serbian film will make significant progress with new financial investments, which gives this amendment meaning. The convention points out this -- that freedom of expression is the basis of all principles, but also that diversity in culture, also in the European Convention is a very important place. Here is the opportunity for those who are pro-European and those who are against the European path to vote for this law. We must be aware that film is a very important means of cultural and artistic expression, with a significant role in preserving freedom of expression and creativity, which should be supported, but with a great deal of caution. National dignity must be safeguarded and the resources of Serbian citizens must not be spent on projects in a culture that embarrasss the nation and the state. The latest example of the movie "Tret", Ognjena Glavonjic, paid by the funds of Serbian citizens, shows in the ugliest light Serbs as criminals and abusers of innocent Albanian civilians in Kosovo and Metohija at the time of Kosovo's rebellion. I don't know if you've had a chance to see a movie or read a script, but it's about transporting so-called. civilians killed in Kosovo by Serb forces meeting from Kosovo to Vojvodina. The very announcement of the film, praised only in Gilasov and Šolak's media, speaks of so-called a true story about Serbian crimes against innocent Albanian civilians at the time of NATO bombing. So bombing is not a crime, and so are those who execute it, the criminals are the ones whose heads are falling. If this is an expression of artistic freedom, creativity is then masochism, and of course the sick sadism of this Veselinović Zeljko, probably a heroic act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43580	Ambassador, please let us get back to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43581	I think it's dark. National MP Maja Vidinovic throws it away. ) (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43582	Go ahead. Don't yell at me and don't throw it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43583	It has not been proven that there are civilians, as it has not been proven to be the Serbian military and police, and the best comment of this film has been given by one viewer, who reads – Brother Glavonjic, to report where the state is being betrayed, and I want to take some money. I hope that comment is enough. The Council of Europe convention in cinema – yes, but at the cost of ending historical facts and jeopardizing state and national sovereignty and dignity – not and never, especially for our money.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43584	National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43585	President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which is amended in Article 12. The PIO Act. This amendment further defines Article 1 of this proposal to amend and supplement the law, and what I want to say, i.e. to put it as an accent, is certainly that this amendment to the Law on PIO ceases the need for the fact of the Law on the temporary regulation of the way the pension is paid out from 2014 and 2016. The reasons for the adoption of this law stem from the need for further regulation of the pension and disability insurance system and from the start of reform of this system in 2002. The main objective of reforming the pension and disability insurance system is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system to ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. The reform took place in several phases, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2010 and 2014 and the measures implemented were mostly restrictive. In addition, the unfavourable relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners and the constant trend in the deterioration of this relationship has led to deficits in the business of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, which implements pension and disability insurance so that almost 40% of the obligation to pay off net pensions is touched from the republican budget. I call on fellow Members to support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43586	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43587	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the austerity measures, the work and efforts of our President Aleksandr Vukic and Serbian citizens who believe in him, and they are growing more and more every day, and those who have agreed to the austerity measures will welcome more pensions since October 1st this year. With reforms and austerity measures, we have a third year in a row in the budget. We've come to better results with difficult measures. The door to our country's future has been opened. Today, the money is solid, unemployment is less than 12%. Four years ago, the state was facing bankruptcy, the public debt was 78% of GDP, and by the end of the year it will be 50%. This is a policy we believe in, a policy of fighting peace that our President Aleksandar Vukic leads for Kosovo and Metohija, seeks a fair and peaceful solution that will mean a better future not only for us Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but for the entire Serbian people. With his arrival in Kosovo and Metohija on September 8th and 9th, visiting Serbian environments, the institutions, the president said he wants peace, prosperity of our people and a compromise with Albanians. The fact is that Serbia will always be with its people in Kosovo and Metohija for better or for worse. We believe in peace policy, we have proven it in the elections, and we will be much stronger and better in the next elections, because strengthening our institutions, your concern for every citizen in Kosovo and Metohija makes it better tomorrow, a better economic position, and that is why we support every decision you make, knowing that it is a burden on you, we feel it in those areas every day and moment. The investments you have brought to Kosovo Mitrovica, over 10m euros for the Clinical Hospital Centre, two million Gracanics, 13m euros for the construction of Trepce, the reconstruction of the dam of Lake Gazivoda, the construction of the water pipeline, the factories in Leposavic, the employment of young people, all this is a symbol of the Serbian people in our premises and our different, successful and better future. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: After the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43589	Thank you, President. Since we've been listening all day to everything that's not in line with the subject of the agenda, then, here, let's wake up this monotony of written speeches, just to take the opportunity to ask Mr. Sarčević, as the minister who was present during this debate, Dosite, as the reward they received, or... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43590	I can no longer respond to attacks then from your benches why I allow you to speak beyond the subject. Please be there when we talk about a law that covers Minister Sarcevic from his jurisdiction, and then you will have the opportunity to ask a question but about the amendment that will be on the agenda. (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43591	Thank you, President. Article 107(1) 2nd and 3rd. So, you can't let me, which I have reported to under the amendment, use the time of an authorised representative under this law, at least ask the minister to answer me something that is a request of citizens, but you also allow, on the other hand, the MPs of your party to talk about everything - about Kosovo, about dollars, about globalisation, about rapes, about everything that absolutely today is not a topic of the agenda. So I asked Mr. Minister a question and you interrupted me in half when it came to scholarships shared by the president of the Republic of Serbia for 1,047 high school students... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43592	You mentioned the president of the Republic of Serbia to cover that you are not talking about an amendment that is on the agenda, and that amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Listen to what she said, and then you'll know. I can't convince you, I'm not allowed to do business. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go. (Gjorge Komlenski: Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43593	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the sessions where we can be really proud, content with what we've done and those decisions that we're going to make in the day of voting, I'm confident, by the great majority of votes and make. Serbia today is a state that has enough money in the budget. Serbia has a surplus, it has money, it has money to increase pensions on a real basis, sustainablely and that our pensioners, I can say freely, were those who best understood the need to implement economic reforms in 2014, today get a real increase in pensions and I am particularly glad that we are going to see that pensions not only follow price increases but also increase prices to be above the level of growth so that the standard of life, the quality of life of our oldest citizens, is far better, so that their future will be as certain and safer. Of course, when we say pensions are reduced, but more, let's put an end to the subject and say 60% of pensions aren't cut. The biggest pensions have been reduced. Of course, we as junior SNS MPs, but also the older ones, I dare speak for my younger colleagues, we are grateful to our fathers, mothers, grandparents who have understood what it takes to make sure that we and our children have a safe future in Serbia, and this is one way with an increase of 8.2% to 13.2% to say thank them this year, and hopefully with some greater increases and in the future. Four years ago, and I'm just going to say that for the end of this exhibition, public debt in Serbia was 78% of GDP, before the end of this year will be below 50%. This is another of the good results of this government's work, showing stability and security of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43594	National MP George Komlenski, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43595	Thank you, Chairman. A breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done, however, in both times Article 103, but Article 1, Article 4 and Article 7. I had the right to injure the Rules of Procedure immediately after Mr Bozovic pointed to the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. That is where you violated the provisions of Article 103(4) and Article 103(7). Mr Bozovic was obliged, as were all the MPs, to point out which member of the Rules of Procedure was called on. Just because he graduated from law school in Bonafides, not where the exams are being passed, he doesn't know that Article 107. The Rules of Procedure have no position 3 on which, among other things, a call is not an excuse for you. You should have told him at that time that he had hurt, abused the Rules of Procedure within the meaning of Article 103 paragraph 7 and given a warning, because whether it was not knowledge because of the way in which he obtained his degree or intended abuse, it is not up to us to appreciate it, but it is up to you to apply the appropriate measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43596	As it turns out that I am the worst in society, it is, yes, but I interrupted the MP, because the breach of the Rules of Procedure was only abused to get the word. You say it, but I'm not always so powerful that I can predict all the intentions of the MPs, but mostly everyone is calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to say something else. It's our way of doing things in this congregation. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43597	Mr. Minister, I found more spontaneously gathered moms at these protests. Here is Zoran Zivkovic and Mr Aleksandar Stevanović, MPs, and this is Radomir Lazovic and Dobrica Veselinović of the organisation "We Do Not Drown Belgrade". As you can see, Mr. Minister, all the moms themselves are unhappy with the measures you've taken. (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43598	I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure, just please, when he's done with a sentence, sit down, then. So, I hear well, I don't see well. National MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43599	Member of the 107th National Assembly. I can take offense on my own account, but you're not stopping me from being insulted personally by what he's saying about you. You're the president, you're the president of this assembly. That's one thing. (Alexander Martinovic: Are you a mom? ) Secondly, I ask you to warn Mr. Martinovic every time he says he has something against mothers in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43600	Article 107 says something else. Please, Ambassador Martinovic had no intention of insulting you by saying that you might be a mother. I don't see anything offensive about it, or our sensitivity is completely different. Something harder to do, so let's talk about it. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43601	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected gentlemen of the Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no doubt that this law on PIO and my amendment submitted will affect its provisions on the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, and thus improve education and education in general. The former regime's party did not fight for investment, but had an impact on pension weakness and thus on the education system. Dear People's MPs, Dragan Gilas, in the peoples called "The Giki Mafia", daily attacks every investment brought by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, and thus every job and contribution for pensions, whether it is "Belgrade on Water", the PKK, RTB "Bor" or a tire factory in Zrenjanin. Time Dragan Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia, is trying to drive domestic and foreign investors out of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, Dragan Gilas, a people called the "Giki Mafia", commits crimes against citizens and the state of Serbia, as well as against our pensioners. Dragan Djilas, in a people called the "Diki Mafia", robbed Belgrade mayor in 2011 of Telecom by forcing political pressure on the then-born director of Telecom, Branko Radjuka to buy four cable channels of his "Arena sport" for 7.7m euros, though underlining "Telecom Serbia", respected MPs, by law, should not have been the owner of the media at that time. Thus, Dragan Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia, robbed and destroyed the pension system and thus weakened the educational and educational system. Dragan Djilas, in a people called "The Giki Mafia", attacks daily the respected president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, because he can no longer rob Serbian citizens or the pension system of the Republic of Serbia. Today, when President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vucic, made Serbia an economically stable country, and when the budget was filled with the Republic of Serbia, it was miraculously felt by Dragan Djilas, called the "Djiki Mafia", and here it was done along with the alliance for Serbia's re-destruction, Sasa Radulovic, in a people called "King of bankruptcy", Sasa Jankovic, in a folk called "Sale of Pranja", Bosko Obradovic, in a people called "luptiv", Zoran Zivković, in a people called "Popjević", in a people called "Zalic", in a people called "Ljudić", in a people called "Ljudic", in the "Ljurdjević", in the people called "Ljudic", "Ljudic", in the town of Zirdjanko, Zirdjanko, in the town of Slovenia, in the town of Slava, in the town of Žiljankom. That is why, President-in-Office, this law and my amendment is very important and I urge you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to accept my amendment in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43602	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43603	I'm using the MP's time group. Here's the professor, Professor Dr. now has explained his amendment, and I'm asking one and the other minister if they will accept this amendment, especially with this explanation we heard today. He is a symbol of education, and I will read as his amendment reads, and once again I ask you to answer this very question, simply will you accept the amendment of Professor Dr. Atlagic, who in this way speaks of colleagues sitting in assembly benches and those who are not currently in those benches. His amendment says this law would encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia to increase with a special focus on the development of the education system. How will this encourage the education system? Ministers of Education, as part of this issue and this amendment, I ask you – do you see any connection between open issues, started by former President of the Republic, Tomislav Nikolic, who could not tell us that his master's work was being read and in which college he completed his studies, from the questionable doctoral diplomas of ministers sitting with you in the government and how do you feel yourself in that government, when in this way you listen to the arguments that Professor Dr. will improve education in Serbia? Does this mean that we will truly find out, talking about the origin of the diploma, the doctoral dissertation of all ministers in your current government. I think that's a prerequisite to stop one huge outflow of the most loved ones and those who are ready to learn in Serbia today, those who are willing to make huge efforts to study, complete their studies in a fair way and find their own space for existence. I think it's a prerequisite to do exactly the pension system, now I'm telling you, Minister Djordjevic, sustainable as you tried to say that pensions will be increased the moment we make Serbia financially sustainable. Will it be financially sustainable if we speak, with such arguments, with this kind of attitude towards our colleagues we motivate these children to come out of Serbia and this gap we talked about, about older Serbia, the shorter life span and the shorter retirement period, we demote those youngest to really invest in pension funds. I do see this relationship between education which has been tried to speak about and sustainability of the pension system, but the first prerequisite for it is to be honest, first of all, from the top of the state, that each of us individually about the origin of the diploma, about the way we graduated from our schools and try to be brave and deal with it, first of all, because of the future of children who are ready to learn and invest in their knowledge and condition, first of all in Serbia, because 40,000 per statistical data is leaving Serbia annually. There's no sustainable pension system with such spills. Once again to say what the DS is about this bill, it is undeniable that pensions will rise because a 10% reduction is lifted. That's quite clear, but what our proposal was, we wanted to hear and together we found a solution in which the way it would be taken back in the last four years, from the adoption of the law in 2014 to today. On average, around 200m euros annually, for four years, about 800m euros. So that is the essence of how to restore what is the property of pensioners of them about 700,000 in Serbia, whose pension has been reduced and I think that as MPs, we should take together as our own responsibility. I say once again that in 2000, the DS in the broad coalition managed to recover 12 back pensions, managed to recover children's allowances and managed to return old foreign exchange savings, during that period of the 1990s, when systematically from the state went through a system of pyramid banks, "Dafine, Jezde" and some other bankers in Serbia, called the banker and state which had declared something that had been acquired for years as capital for the future of old foreign currency savings. So, once again I call on you ministers to tell us if you will accept this amendment and how we can work together to face such an approach that it is an easy way to get a degree, a doctoral dissertation, a way to get a large number of the most educated children out of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43604	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43605	Thank you, but I cannot accept the amendment, it is the must of the Assembly, and it is not my law, but what you asked from my domain, what I represent, it is very clear what is in the domain of the Ministry of Education and Science, and what is in the domain of autonomy of the university itself, or its constituents. When it comes to doubting plagiarism, you know that you have to address it or whoever suspects parent college, they form commissions still have their own procedure. When suspected of the validity of the diploma, then he addresses the Ministry of Education and Educational Inspection then reacts and draws conclusions by examining the whole procedure. We had in our amendments and additions to the law something that we explained that it wasn't in that procedure from some technical mistakes, but none of it was amnesty from what was illegal. We have to this day about hundreds of different institutions, on our call to shut down illegally unaccredited departments of any sector, vocational or academic education, whether private or state-owned. In that area, the inspection will be from the first, as we have said, on the ground. The second category of higher education institutions is those that have applied for accreditation but because of the change in the way of accreditation, over the earlier accreditation commission, now at the Agency which is a higher level and European standard. So there was one break, so people who are on hold, where they're going to wait for the accreditation process, and if it's badly done, so they can now start working after the first. Of course, they will be deprived of accreditation, or students will have to return money and enroll in other institutions. So, what comes to the ministry of resolution in formal form is that we have a duty to act, and we do, and all we suspect is something else, something that is within the framework of autonomy, law and obligation of the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43606	Thank you, Minister. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43607	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I reported on the amendment of my distinguished colleague, Mark Atlagic. I brought here the index of the president of my party and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, but you cannot bring the index of your leaders. I understand why you didn't want to bring in Dragan Sutanovac's index, the man studied for over 12 years. Here, please, bring the index of this Zeljko Veselinović, your new leader, who threatens to rape the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to see which school he has completed and what message he sends to the children and youth of Serbia. And is that a policy that will keep young people from staying in this country? Also, Mr. Ciric, I ask you, since you have talked about Mark Atlagic's amendment and called on the minister to answer if he will accept his amendment, I am now asking you -- how is it Serbia a non-democratic state, a tyranny, a state where only one man is asked, you always think, of course, of the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, that it is a Serbian country of freedom, a country of terror, and you are the president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group at the post of special adviser to the Public Enterprise's "Poste of Serbia" with a salary of 150 thousand dinars? Well, tell me, what kind of a non-democracy state is that possible and was that possible at the time of your democracy, at the time of your freedom, at the time of your rule of law? I don't think it was possible. And these photos I showed for a little while, I showed not because of what your colleague Balša Bozovic says to insult any mother in Serbia, I am also a son and a parent and I do not think of insulting anyone's mother and no one's wife, but I showed these photos to the Serbian citizens that it is not any spontaneous demonstrations against the Serbian government and that it is not a protest, as you say – mom, is it you, Balša Bozovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Radomir Lazovic, Dobrica Veseinović, Aleksandar Stevanovic, etc., you are not a mother, but you are MPs of the opposition and so tell the citizens of Serbia. In these photographs, not that I have seen almost no mother, I have seen almost all MPs from the Democratic Party, from all these parliamentary groups who share the heads of the group, Zeljko Vesenović and Dragan Djilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43608	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43609	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Mr. Chairman, I respect your tolerance towards the opposition, but Mr. Ciric, in my opinion, wanted in a very prism way to undermine Mr. Atlagic and his doctorate degree. Mr. Atlagic came forward for a replica you did not allow him. So Mr. Atlagic doctored in the old days. Mr. Atlagic did not study for 12 years as Goran Jesic, missing three years until retirement. Mr. Atlagic did not study as their president of the past, they often change it, Mr. "Snaps" or so, I don't know what his name was, which he studied for 13 years, for two years he lacked until retirement. Mr. Atlagic has not graduated from two universities, such as Beba Balasevic. So, I believe that she finished two colleges, now she can move on to clean the third, since she didn't even know who Elijah Garashanin was, she graduated literature and she doesn't know what the "Principal" is, if they asked her a year, it would be a general mess. So, I respect Mr. Ciric, I respect his knowledge of telecommunications, I respect his 150 thousand dinars he receives from the Serbian government as an adviser, I respect that in three or four months, while he was the director of "Post", he acquired an apartment near the "Post" of 100 squares, all of which I respect, but you must also take care of Mr. Atlagic's rights and I demand that you respect my remarks. Since there was a rotation of the chairman, I'm not sure that you chaired, but you should let Mark Atlagic defend his doctoral title with dignity. He does not need the knowledge that Beba Balašević has, nor does he need anyone who, like Beba and her father, will sing to the people's messengers, farmers and call them the smell of the farm, who, behold, is coming out, so here is the opportunity for me to ask Djoko Balašević, who brought it out of the Garashan as a buyer of the PKK? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43610	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Professor Dr. Marko Atlagic is in the system, has the right to replication, with the fact that nobody really questioned authority, knowledge and, far from that, a degree. Professor, do you want the Parliament to plead in voting day? (No) First Professor Marko Atlagic, right on the line. And you, Mr. Kiriq, are entitled to a replica, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43611	First the replica, and then I'm entitled to the amendment. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43612	Or a replica or an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43613	Replica. I'm shocked by the gentleman's statement across from me for not listening to the explanation of my amendment. No wonder he didn't listen to it, because he didn't know what law it was, which is on the agenda. And how on earth would you brothers know when he came to this congregation half an hour ago, and we've been working since this morning, ten hours. That's what he does every day, him and the gentlemen behind him. That's one thing. Secondly, this law cannot affect Serbia's overall development and economic modernisation, and by improving both the pension system and the education system every student in the first grade of primary school knows, but he did not listen, that's one thing. Second, I've never offended anyone in my life. You well, gentlemen of the People's Parliament know, and the citizens of Serbia know all that I said about the previous speaker talking about fellow MPs I quoted from the press, now I'm just going to say one sentence. For example, “the king of bankruptcy! On April 14, 2011, a prominent newspaper, entitled “The Police comb the king’s bankruptcy. ” On April 16, 2011, the title “King of Banks, Saša Radulović, was eaten by sugars”. I have a hundred of those from the press, and for his colleague from his party, who damaged the 2010 budget for 463 million dinars, a report by the DRI I quoted earlier, this is essentially...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43614	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43615	I just want to finish my sentence and I'm entitled to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43616	You have two minutes when it comes to replication. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43617	Here, let me finish this sentence. The DRI established, established a commission and in the press three days after that Dragan Sutanovac called "the kidnapper", I did not invent anything from the Members of the People, but from what he did from these gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43618	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Here's a chance for Goran Ciric. Right on the line, so you pick up the amendment again, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43619	Here in two minutes, three MPs and a simple short answer, one more confirmation from the mentioned doctor's professor on the series of insults to his colleagues and those in the O.R. and those not in the O.R. You could never hear from me any insult to any of the MPs or MPs in these benches. I've asked a question about diplomats and knowledge, I guess it's quite logical that each of us knows what was called his diplomat's work or his graduation or any work, because it's something that remains for all time for those who've spent at least a dozen hours of effort on such work, let alone a little more than that. If you ask me what my prom or graduation was called, here, I'll tell you, I know him by heart during the day and night. (Alexander Martinovic: And who doesn't know? ) Well, former President of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic did not know the question to answer, nor did he give the public an answer to which college he studied. So I asked the question and the Minister of Education about the relationship with his colleagues who gave unfavorable explanations about where they were studying, what period, which directions and PhDs, the credibility of the doctorates of those who showed them here and who are giggling by these titles. But what you've shown, you've shown essentially what it's like to treat people who work in a state of public enterprises because you've asked that question. Well, of course it makes sense for both people from both position and opposition to work in state systems. Do you think access to any state system is possible and desirable only to the people who are members of the parties in power? It actually shows about that approach and that question. As for the apartment, which was mentioned, I am one of the few directors of the Post office who did not get an apartment, but took out a loan, repays the loan and, of course, I pay off with challenges like all other people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43620	Thank you, colleague Kiric. Dr. Alexander Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43621	Here's a very short replica, actually, one question. If, Mr. Ciric, it is normal for you to say, I really think it is normal, therefore, that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia should be given access to the state service, say at your time whether it was possible for the president of the parliamentary group of any opposition party, here, since you have mentioned the former President of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, at the time he was the president of the SNS parliamentary group at the time when you were in power, was it possible at that time, European time, civil time, that Tomislav Nikolic would be in the National Assembly of the SNS Group and at the same time as the special adviser of the JP Director-General "Post of Serbia" or any other public enterprise in Serbia for the salary of 150,000 dinars? Please give me an example between 2008 and 2012 or from 2000 to 2008, whether such examples in Serbia were, therefore, to be the head of the opposition parliamentary group in Serbia and to be a special adviser to the director of "Post", "Electroprivreda", "Telecoma" or some other state-owned company. In your time it wasn't possible and it wasn't normal, but it's normal in our time and as you can see, Serbia, so you're an obvious example, not a country of freedom, not a country where there is no democracy. On the contrary, Serbia is a democratic country, Serbia is a country where there is no party employment, and the best example is you, Mr. Ciric. You're the best textbook example of what a democratic and legal state should look like. The man is against the regime, but that's why he works at the state company for 150,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43622	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Mr. Risticevic, you answered. On what grounds? You're giving up. Okay. Thank you. Goran Ciric, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43623	Yes, you asked me directly. The question is clear and I will extend it to the period from 2000 to 2004 and 2008 to 2012 for which you asked the question, when I was responsible for two large systems. One was the town of Nis from 2000 to 2004, the other "Serb Post" from 2008 to 2012. And I'm proud of the results in that period, both for one system and for another, and especially for the people I've worked with. You can also check, and for that you have confirmation at these meetings of the Serbian Parliament, when the former directors of "Post of Serbia" are here now in large systems and who are given the opportunity and who have been given the opportunity in "Post", without any question of which political commitment is based only on their abilities. Anyone who works in big systems, I'm not going to mention names, you know that, and the MUP, and the E-Government Agency, I'm not going to talk about them, they came right here, along with the current minister, and they represented laws, and you check that out, and you'll see for yourself. But I don't mention names and last names from a proper relationship, because I don't have that access, but I'm about to tell you right now. You'll be easy to check, but I'm about to tell you, anyone who carries responsibility for the big system, for the whole state, must know that people who are different political orientations work in some percentage and in these public systems. If you cut certain parts of that system, you lose some of the energy and knowledge in that system. I was aware of that because I knew that then and at that time DS might have had 30% support either 20% or 40% in some period, but 60% would cut off if you only hired people from your political environment. That's why they all got the best chance. And for that, you have a brightness of confirmation. And, check for yourself, I'm not lying, it's easy to check and check for those who sat in these benches and who defended some of the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43624	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43625	My question was very clear. I don't know what benches you're talking about. You mention some people whose names you do not want to name, and you say – Serbia is the non-democratic, tyrannical regime of Alexander Vukic, etc. I asked you very clearly in Serbian – is it in your time, Mr. Ciric, please, was it possible in your time for someone to be the president of the parliamentary group in opposition at the same time and a special adviser to the general director of any public enterprise in Serbia? Please give me a single name. It wasn't possible from 2000 to 2012 and you know it very well. Not that it wasn't possible, remember the period after October 5th, what your political like-mindeds were saying about those they illegally brought down from power. That they should be fired from work, that they should be laxtrated, that their children should be cut to the head, etc. Those were your measurements. In our time, it has only become possible, in this terrible, undemocratic time of Wolfich's. You remember what your party colleagues say here in the Assembly, party employment, etc. Well, only at this time is Vucic's time possible to criticise Vukic, be the president of the opposition's parliamentary group and at the same time serve as JP's special adviser to the "Post-Serbia" for a salary of 150,000 dinars. If that's the case, Mr. Kiric, I'm asking you now - where do you get the moral right to spit in your own country and say that Serbia is a country of freedom, a country of terror, a country where only one man is asking questions about everything? Simply, how does a man have moral scruples that with such incomes, with a salary of 150,000 dinars, says – well, this country is evil, this country is corrupt, this is a state where there is no freedom?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43626	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43627	That and such an attack, the pulsation of the state, absolutely never, and we can put our biographies to all the people here and the public in Serbia and show what we've been doing for this country. This if you have good intentions towards the state and try to make some suggestions, some solutions and different views of the solutions that represent and mentioned ministers and you represent as a majority, and I am in a minority and do not believe in such solutions, but I believe that it is possible to find and different solutions are something that proves my sincerity and, of course, my commitment and love for my country. I can't let you say that you prefer your country than I do, and I'm going to tell you a lot more challenges than the one you're pointing out right now. In 1999, I was this pro-democracy in the city of Nis, as chairman of the DS City Committee, who was accused of both your colleagues and in a political sense, as well as people headed the country, to set up locators to bomb their children, their friends, their relatives, to call for military exercises, to call for war. Yes, I responded, of course, that I was willing to sacrifice my life and defend my children, my family and my countrymen in a way that could have taken life, as thousands of other people who were not by definition members of the then government, were members of the ruling majority, but were also members of the opposition. These people loved their country the way I love it today, even though I'm here on this side of the bench in the minority, and it's an extremely pronounced minority. I will never let you say that you love this country more than I do because at this point I'm thinking differently. I think it is necessary to look for different solutions to this Pension System Act, and then when we were against 2014 and about many other solutions you've made here and I'm sure of, I repeat once again, that they have brought great, bad consequences, in total, to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43628	Thank you, colleague Kiric. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43629	So, you can't answer me, Mr. Ciric -- could one of the presidents of the opposition parliamentary group at your time have been a special adviser to the Director General in some public enterprise? As far as the attack on the country, I know the DS is a member of this new Alliance, you say, for Serbia, I think an alliance against Serbia, whose leader is Zeljko Veselinovic. Zeljko Veselinovic said two days ago: "Thank you to all members of the Alliance for Serbia for their unequivocal support. They're not gonna scare us, they're not gonna rip us apart, they're just giving us more power to fight this fascist regime. Unity, friendship and harmony are what graces the Alliance for Serbia, until victory. “ So, Mr. Ciric, Minister Djordjevic, Minister Sarcevic, Djordje Komlenski, all of these SNS colleagues, we are, in the opinion of your leader, representatives of the fascist regime. You didn't say. Your leader said. The leader, Željko Veselinovic, said. One day, he says the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, should be raped by an African-American man just released from prison, and then three days later, he says that Serbia is ruled by a fascist regime. Then you say, "I don't spit in my country, I defend that country." You have to decide, Mr. Kiriq, whether you're in a coalition with one or not. If it is, and it is, then you're just like them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43630	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has Goran Ciric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43631	I think this is an important question. My colleagues and colleagues made it clear, and we condemned that tweet that you read all day in the congregation, not only because of it, but we condemned it quite clearly. And I'm saying right now and now, yes, I'm judging. I will remind you, Mrs. Ana Brnabić, when she is proposed as Prime Minister, we have defended her as a citizen, and I now point out that, and then we have declared, can be checked in a stenogram, and all of her rights and her diversity and her clear commitment and belonging to the LGBT group. She suffered attacks from you from these benches, when then the president of the Assembly silenced you, when you read an example from the reader and by her assessment, by the assessment of Maja Gojkovic, you insulted Ana Brnabic. Then we protected her, as we will protect her both tomorrow and all those people who have rights to their differences and different definitions in both political and other terms, and in religious and any other sense. So we're going to be consistent, the way we're going to talk hate or the message we heard, that you read here clearly condemn in these benches. I don't think you can put a sign of equality, because once again I say, at no point there was no insult, no words of hatred, no words of hatred towards any individual in these benches, you know it well and you know it, as all the other MPs in this assembly know.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43632	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43633	For Serbia's citizens, therefore, you did not apologize to Ana Brnabic for the words directed by your leader Zeljko Veselinovic. You're not. We read here in the Assembly what Zeljko Veselinovic said about Ana Brnabić and only afterwards did one of your MPs say that he was sorry that it was written, but before that none of you had apologized. None of you have apologized. None of you have apologized for these words, shameful words that Serbia is ruled by a fascist regime. Have you fenced yourself from a statement, also, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, which comes from Vuk Jeremic's party? It is Vladimir Gajic who literally said, "The wolf in the elections to win can't win. Over 60% of functionally illiterate citizens are here. “ So he insults even Serbian citizens, not government, insults citizens. "60 per cent of functionally illiterate citizens are there and they will remain his believers until the end. Milosevic lost not in the election, but in the revolution. I'm an advocate of the rebellion of the people. The moment will come and, he added, guarantees for this rebellion should be asked of the great forces. “ Are you building on this statement? Do you agree that 60% of citizens are functionally illiterate, that 60% of Serbian citizens, that they are believers of Alexander Vukic and that you cannot beat Alexander Vukic differently, but by repeating October 5th? Is this a statement that you're building on? Tell the citizens of Serbia - are you also building on this?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43634	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43635	Don't let it go unsaid, let's get back to the amendment. It's not appropriate for me to plead on every amendment, but here, I'll make an exception. Let me tell you, I can make a proposal to the government, and the government can adopt the Assembly to vote. When it comes to this amendment, which you had a dilemma about having read the whole article, you would probably see that according to the current standard, all founders, or members of a company, had to be assured. Now, with this amendment, we're removing it, and it doesn't necessarily matter that they're being secured. I believe that the idea of MPs was that the founders, regardless of their education, were not necessarily to be high or low educated, but rather to be founders, to be good managers. I don't think that's necessary or sufficient, and that's why I'm saying that it's not necessary to adopt this amendment, so on that side... (Goran Ciric: Will you support? I'm saying that I wouldn't, it's not necessary, it's not necessary, it's not enough conditions for that, but I figured out what the idea was, and so I'm giving an explanation why I don't think it's necessary. And when you said, I'm just going to look back at the pensions and the necessity of this law, you talk, I hear, and yesterday and today about returning your pensions, etc., you need the people of Serbia to know that in 2000 strange things happened, from forgiveness of the Paris Club to borrowing Serbia on unfavourable loans, high interest rates, which we as Government are returning today, or we, some of them that were high and refinanced. One of the ways they were returned was not a good economy, which could not have happened after the war in 1999, but was borrowing. And that's what we're up against today, against borrowing so that we're going to do something zero or maybe increase someone's credit rights, but we want it to be from some real sources, from an economy that has both surplus and high GDP and low inflation and a stable rate and has investments and single-digit unemployment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43636	Thank you, Minister. The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43637	Here you have mentioned well, thank you for this attitude that you said you would not support this amendment, but it is possible that the majority of the congregation will vote you in that it will change this law, I understand that. Most of the time, it wasn't happening, but we had a series of amendments that didn't affect the law in any way. But what you said now, as an argument, in that sense that you changed that practice and that in 2000 it was returned in a way that was in debt under unfavourable conditions, let's tell me, because you keep talking and it's a constant thesis – you found the state before bankruptcy, you found it with 15 billion euros in debt, now it's 24 billion and, imagine, it's now saved from bankruptcy with 24, with nine billion more, and some people found that state in 2000 with 15 billion euros in public debt, and then GDP was about seven billion euros. So the total participation of public debt in 2000 was over 200% in GDP. So what's it called from this angle? Well, not that she was in front of bankruptcy, but she was really in bankruptcy. Well, then the authorities are also the coalition at the time, the political set-up changed that practice after October 5th and managed to repay most of the debt, of course a good part of the debt and the write-off of the London and Paris Club, but we came to the conclusion that the public debt at an extremely fast pace was reduced, that old foreign currency savings was recovered, that 12 back pensions were recovered, and I was talking about a period that showed that this could be returned to the pensioners after 2014, and that was these 800 million euros in one period that could not be defined at this time, but we expected the government to make such a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43638	Thank you, colleague Kiric. The word has Zoran Djordjevic, minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43639	Yes, but you don't, as an economist, as someone who ran large businesses, as you say, then you know what you got by borrowing and being unfavourable. How this later affected the fact that debt increases from GDP to debt alone in relation to GDP and the impact that this has led to, and that in 2014 you have a feedback reaction, which is to go into bankruptcy, because you did not have real income, you have already lived on how you were in debt. And to that all, when you said you were coming back, you made a mistake in 2008 by forgetting that when pensions were increased, you forgot your military pensioners, and that's what we were paying back last year. Two hundred million euros is a debt to military pensioners, 11 06 coordination. Well, you know for a fact that there were protests because in 2008 to 2017, the debt grew. That's not what we made up. We've paid back that debt, but as long as you're talking about it, then say that this government has been paying back the debts, and it's not paying back by borrowing it, it's coming back from real income. This pension increase does not go out of debt, but goes from the real income made by the PIO Fund and made by this country a surplus. We now have rebalancing. We have an increase, a return and a reduction in how much the PIO Fund will withdraw from the budget, from 185 to 178 billion. So we're increasing the amount we're giving by the end of the year, and we're reducing what we're going to take from the state, and we're giving these seven billion to new investments. So we're increasing the amount we're giving by the end of the year, and we're reducing what we're going to take from the state, and we're giving these seven billion to new investments. I think it's the right way to do business. It is realistic that you make a profit and make an economy that can give us the right to promise pensioners next year – you will have bigger pensions. So we're gonna make it up to those pensioners who've been through this. That is what I say on behalf of the Government – there will be a bigger pension and that is how we will repay them. That's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43640	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43641	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, heavy hearts, but I have to re-advert a member of 107 after Mr. Kiric's presentation. Namely, he deceived the National Assembly and reduced public debt at the time of their government. Mrs. Tomic knows that, the debt at the end of 2012 was 17.7 billion, not 15. It wasn't a problem I was long, the problem was also a major deficit. The problem was the growth rate, the problem was inflation of 7%...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43642	How did I hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43643	A member of the 107th violation of the National Assembly's dignity, you did not warn Mr. Djiric not to use false false information. So, the complete data I present, which Mrs. Tomic certainly as an expert in the area can confirm. The biggest problem was not so much that they left the debt, but that they sold out the entire economy, fired 400,000 people who were supposed to pay back that debt and transferred them instead of income to the expenditure side. The biggest problem besides that is they haven't created a source of debt returns. So there was no source to repay the debt and even worse was Agrobanka and the Vojvodina Development Bank. The flood they made went into the purchase of apartments, you move out of Nis, because you don't like love Serbia anymore, just love for Belgrade. In particular, Nišli was highlighted in this love, to remind my colleague Zivkovic, to buy an apartment for 230,000 euros in downtown Belgrade, 200 meters from his job, then the driver, the love of the country and the cost of the state, then take the state driver who drives you to work in slippers 200 meters. That was the love of their country, which cost us dearly as a people and a nation. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43644	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43645	I thank the chairman. In May 2012, 15.4 billion public debt to Serbia, December 2012, was 17.7 billion. You can't charge the state for that debt and say since May I'm no longer in charge of that debt even though I've raised over 208 credit lines at 8.3% interest rates. You can't say I'm not responsible for what happens after that, you see what you're going to do with it, but we're only in charge of 15.4 billion euros, and all those debts relating to energy, wages, pensions, cities, local self-government, that's somewhere in other accounts, it's not public debt. It's all a public debt, except you wanted to reduce it in that final amount, you didn't want to be extremely responsible for the citizens of Serbia and all categories, and then you want to take off your responsibility for all these years from 2012. Well, that's not how you run the country, and that's not how responsible politics are run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43646	Thank you. By amendment, Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43647	Dear Vice President, I am pleased that my critics have finally understood what this amendment is about. But in order to understand, if they don't know, I will repeat once again, which is the law on the agenda, they address Minister Sarčević and he's not from his portfolio. A critic came here an hour ago instead of ten this morning. It's not a problem if he does it today, but his colleagues do it every day. That is what the people call those who do not work do not do their work, the lesbians. It's a folk term. Whether they are such or not, the citizens will judge and they will give the final judgment. Furthermore, I repeat for the citizens of Serbia, I have never offended anyone. When I say some kind of expression, I quote it. Now I have a few minutes to deny what my colleague in some way understood, Doctor Professor. I know what he's referring to. Professor, well offended, now I'm going to prove to him that I'm not. King of bankruptcy, Saša Radulović, in a famous newspaper on 14 April 2011, quoted as saying – the title “police of the king of bankruptcy”, 16 April 2011, the king of bankruptcy Saša Radulović ate sugar, all titles, 25 April 2011, the king of bankruptcy Saša Radulović took money from the victims of fraud, 27 April 2011, the title “captured bankruptcy boy Saša Radulović”, 31 May 2016, the title “the bankruptcy manager of Saša Radulović, the bruko, how much money you stole” and the title “the bankruptcy manager Saša Radulović champion, behold wonders, in Kumovian ties, appointed his godfather as BIP”. Respected citizens of Serbia for everyone I have called, for the solidarity of my colleagues that I do not take their time to look here, are all quotes, full bags and here. Unlike them, I sit here all day, recording what they do and how they express themselves in the press and on Twitter. What you and I are doing, we can't hide it, history throws everything out. As a man of science, I'm investigating this. Stand up, deny me, I'll be happy to be denied that this isn't true behind each of them. Therefore, when I said that one part of it was called lesbians, it is said in the people that do not do their work, and there are from these benches opposite me, which was spoken of by the MPs, MPs who came three times a year, not only from his party but from other parties. Gentlemen, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you say what these individuals are called. Of course, lesbians. Therefore, I am once again amazed that the man who finished the economy cannot imagine that the Law on PIO, if pensions increase, partly as much as they strengthen the country's economic system, and thus, it is known how, and educational system. Is it possible that the economist doesn't understand? He probably understands, I know it well, but he wasn't here to listen, so he confused the laws and addressed Minister Sarčević instead of Minister Djordjevic. But what you're going to do, it hurts him and what I said, quoted how much money someone took from former firms. Gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, I end up with this sentence, they have destroyed our past, destroyed the future of our children. If they had only stayed a year in power, they would have destroyed our roots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43648	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. I now intend to terminate this part of the debate in accordance with Article 27. Indeed, in the last few discussions absolutely did not refer to the topic of the agenda. (Goran Ciric: Replica. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubiša Stojmirović. Does anyone want a word? Be patient, you'll have a chance anyway. If you didn't have the right to reply today, I don't really know, it was certainly ten times. Thank you for understanding. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43649	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with ministry associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, when I talk about pensioners, I speak with a great deal of respect because they have borne the greatest burden of reform. But before I go out, to explain my amendment, I can't, women's solidarity won't let me, without looking back at the sentence – moms are the law. Moms were, moms are the law and moms are gonna be the law, but moms are mostly women. This is where the women sit. We've been hurt by dignity. Do you believe that in less than a year, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic was abused, that now our prime minister, Mrs. Brnabic, is on the table. None of the women on this side, to whom the opposition belongs, Zeljko Veselinovic, I hate to say his name, because the word he used for our prime minister, which is rape, gentlemen, is well remembered and dear viewers, rape. A disgusting, inappropriate word for parliament, which I will never forget in my life. None of you have been fenced by him. It's a shame. All the time here, there are journalists day and night, no one said – I am ashamed that such a man is with us. I'm ashamed to hear that word. Our prime minister is not the prime minister's ficus, she's the best prime minister ever. Our prime minister will never be raped. What does that mean? Who's next in line? She was the first president of the assembly, then the prime minister, so now my MPs, what's that supposed to mean? Does that mean we should have a police escort? It's a shame. It's a lie that anyone answered. Now I'm going on my amendment. Thank you. First, the pensioner-employee ratio is one to five. It's not good, it's not good enough. One pensioners' association has proposed to fill the pension fund, taxing a higher percentage to be insurance taxation. That's not good. I like the minister's speech when he says it's not a good tax, it's something to tax, it's something to bring investors in, it's got to hire young people, it's got to be overqualified by young people, which is what we do. Let's just remember five days ago, our President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, was in China, he signed a mass of agreements in the field of tourism and trade, and he signed three extremely important contracts. One worth, for Basen in Bor, worth a billion and 400 million, means the full revitalisation of Southeast Serbia. Then, another, worth two billion dollars, will be built an industrial centre, an industrial zone in Borca. Ten thousand new places and finally revitalising Zrenjanin, an investment worth a billion euros. That's what I need to talk about here, and no, here goes my colleague, couldn't stand my criticism, I was probably tough, but it's about the female principle, I couldn't stand it. As far as pensioners are concerned, we're gonna try to get the PIO fund loaded, and it's already filling up. In 2012, the state came up with 52% to get pensions, today it's 32 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43650	Thank you, colleague Malusic. By amendment, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43651	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, Col. Malusic, requires special attention. I am sorry that my colleague Malusic did not read how her amendment reads, so I will read it – we should specifically look at the reduction of social differences. We do not know today in Serbia who is the bigger social category, whether pensioners with such low pensions, especially those with the lowest, whether employees in the real sector, especially in private companies, foreign companies with 200 euros in salary, whether employees in the state administration and some local self-government who have 20, 30 or no more than 40,000 dinars, because today it is all a social category if they do not earn at least a minimum consumer basket, and we all know what that amount is. But let me get back to the pensioners. Mr. Minister, and an explanation in this bill, as probably other arguments from 2002 to today, when we changed the Law on PIO five times, all with a view to finally reforming the pension system thoroughly. Unfortunately, after 16 years, we have not moved from the initial position when it comes to the fundamental reform and financial sustainability of the pension system, and therefore legal and social security for the current pensioners, and for many of us. I hope one day we'll all be pensioners. Unfortunately, we cannot call reform a pension reduction in 2014, when, without the will and questions of the pensioners, we cut pensions to them and said – that, that is the category, we should bear the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation. For four years, our pensioners have credited the budget of the Republic of Serbia and all of us, and now through these amendments and additions to the law, which we say again are reformable, we say we will increase their pensions. We won't raise their pensions, let's give them back what we took from them first. We at the DSS primarily advocate to give them back what they would have had as pensioners, that these four years they had received harmonised pensions with certain parameters. When we give them back, only then can we talk about whether or not we'll increase their pensions. Certainly, in order to keep the social security of pensioners in fact, we must also think about how future pensioners will coordinate. We can't ignore it. We're not all experts on the pension system, but we can't ignore the opinion and facts that people of the Fiscal Council have brought forward, which are here to point to positive or negative tendencies when it comes to some of the laws and systems that concern us. Now we don't know what models to calculate future pensions by. They were placed in the discretionary right of the government of the Republic of Serbia to decide when pensions will increase, how much they will increase and whether they will increase at all, all depending on how much the Republic of Serbia's budget can endure. And also, it's now a social category, and let's not treat them anymore as a social category, which is now in the context of these social rights and social equality, let's separate what pension is, acquired law, what our pensioners have earned by working 40 years, from what's called a social category, and what's now going to be in the government's jurisdiction to pay them or not. Ministers, you can defend it now as a possibility, so fiscal consolidation has succeeded, the surplus is in the budget, the pensioners are responsible for the surplus and let's make it up to them. Don't let them depend on you now as a ruling structure, the law will remain. If the government changes, it will again depend on politics, on the executive authority, on some new political structure in power, and will always be in the position of whether or not it will be at the will of the citizens because they are, indeed, one million and 700 and what a significant electoral body. Until then, don't get carried away with some reform laws, let's seriously and thoroughly consider reforming the pension system, so that it can be sustainable, to find a modernity. Don't let us keep our pensioners in the status of citizens in subjection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43652	Thank you. Right on the line, Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43653	Thank you, Chairman. It seems to me that the lady has an extremely short memory. Let's remember the privatisations, the muggings of this country. During the rule of the DSS, I think the lady was in the party, the biggest robberies were made in the country from 2000 to 2008, 590 companies were robbed, striped, and so stripped back to the country, one by one. She forgot that in 2008, 400,000 people were fired, 400,000 people were left without bread. Well, who's going to pay the PIO? Unemployed 27% by 2012. With the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party in power, the percentage has dropped drastically. In 2018, by arriving ino companies, 70 new factories were opened, employs over 150 thousand people who pay contributions and taxes to the PIO Fund, so how are we going to revitalise the PIO Fund if not? How? The gray economy? No, this way. And it was touched in 2012 by 52% of the budget. Let's put a finger on the forehead and see who's responsible for this. So it's not the SNS address, it's the Dossage Authority coalition and the lady who was in the DSS. Thank you. (Gorica Gajic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43654	You have no right, you're not mentioned. (Gorica Gajic: The party is mentioned. You know I don't have a chance, with all my real will and desire. Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43655	The time of the parliamentary group. The strength of the arguments will not strengthen the arguments cited by those who have shown by 2012 that they are unable to lead the state in one extremely responsible and sustainable way, especially when it comes to the Republic of Serbia's budget. What I'm saying is, when it comes to fiscal advice, it's that the assumptions of the fiscal council are totally wrong. Why? Because the formula is applied if we fall below 11% of GDP when it comes to the general level, the amount of pensions, and the growth should be above 4% so that that formula can be applied. So that's this Swiss model that was made in application here according to the way we have the opportunity to pay, or coordinate pensions. We're not even talking about an increase, but we're talking about harmonising pensions against inflation, that is, rising prices to a little bit and harmonising when we're talking about higher growth than 4%, and that's the formula we're always talking about. And we can't apply that formula if we're above 11%, or applied to under 11% of pensions for an increase, and when we're talking about the Republic of Serbia's budget at all, it means those payments. Now that we're talking about it, we have to be realistic and say - 11.1%) of gross social product is now the volume that applies to this increase, or when we have the abolition of what we had in 2014 and we're still above that we're not able to apply practically that formula, because applying the formula would have a lot less because we would have 1% increase in pensions, by removing this reduction from 2014, so that pensioners who have 50,000 would now receive 50,500 dinars. If you're up for it, if the Fiscal Council wants to raise pensions in a degree, then tell the citizens of Serbia that the pensioners know what you're up for. So the formula works when you have higher growth than 4%, the Swiss model says nicely, and when you have a decrease in volume to 11%, when you're bonding to the growth of a gross social product. Today we have to be extremely open and honest, and not when it suits you, then we're a little bit attached to the formulas, we're tied to the fiscal council, and when it doesn't suit you, then you just don't want to talk about it. With this pension increase and returning to 2014 we want pensioners to get a significant increase in pensions, i.e. coordination, and that percentage of 0.3% is a supplement that will actually lead to pensioners getting a level-up and since then we start counting high growth, over 4% for next year, to open up the possibility of getting significant pension increases next year. It is a desire and work complete, as a result of economic reforms, not only of the SNS, but of all the people who have supported this policy over the past four years and given the strength to implement these economic reforms as soon as possible. Indeed, this gratitude also lies with pensioners who have suffered these economic reforms and helped them all, and that is why we want to thank them in a certain way. The nominal check, which will be received in November for October, is that it is markedly increased. So, this reform you're talking about, it doesn't say anywhere that it's the government's exclusive right to increase pensions, it simply stands at the legal basis of the 27e budget system, which is just saying that this pension should be 11% of the gross social product, it says that pensions are not a social category, but one category of acquired rights that applies to all pensioners, that this level of pension is the possibility of economic sustainability not only of the budget, but of the growth that we are planning next year, based on the real investments that you've had to see both in collaboration with the West and the East. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with the PIO Fund, has put such a proposal to the vote and given MPs to consider. I think it's fair to say that you should support such a proposal, because you were all in favour of abolishing the decision that was made here in 2014 in the Assembly as one of the most difficult political measures any government and any party has proposed, and with it extremely fair to go before the citizens of Serbia and support something like this, because everything else represents one great hypocrisy and an attempt to politically profit on such a proposal with the idea that in the future simply pensioners do not have this kind of increase in pension coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43656	Thank you, colleague Tomic. According to the amendment, MP Djordje Milicevic and head of the SPS MPs' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43657	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been expecting today's and yesterday's debates to hear a proposal on what is an alternative and whether there is an alternative to the reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we have been prepared for this kind of debate. First of all, I want to say that it is very good that you have introduced the session into one normal course, primarily because of the importance and importance of the topic we are talking about today, because this is a topic concerning Serbia's future and this is a topic concerning the future of each citizen of Serbia. Many things that have been said during today's debate and I only want a few sentences, you will allow me, in the context of what my colleague Malusic said. I think it's hard qualifications when someone says in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that, I'll quote - women can't get pregnant. We have adopted measures here concerning the demographic future and I want to say on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group – we are not ashamed, because we are doing our job responsibly, together with our coalition partners, in order to have positive economic indicators. Because, as the minister said during today's debate, everything depends on economic indicators and everything depends on how positive economic indicators will be. The protest is legitimately right, we do not dispute, we do not want to offend anyone, but we are proud of the so far guidelines in stimulating Natalie I said to you, today we are talking about the subject of the future. When I say the future, I mean the future of Serbia, I mean the future of every Serbian citizen. And, citizens precisely because of the importance and importance of this topic expect us both to have a serious and responsible approach and a serious and responsible relationship. But, you know, when you have no arguments, no offense to your colleagues from the SRS, I don't mean you when I mention the opposition, I'm gonna fence myself, when you have no arguments, when you don't have an alternative, when you have nothing concrete to say about the legal proposals that today are the points of the agenda, you know that you're mostly against everything, then through those general political fossils -- you've stolen, you've kidnapped, you're thieves, you're going to answer, we're going to be counting, you're trying, unfortunately, to get cheap political points. However, I will agree with counterpart Tomic completely, the strength of the arguments is always above force. You're not strong as an MP and you're not as strong as you can speak as you can, or how many times you're going to tell someone that he stole something, that he took something, but how strong your arguments are, and the arguments are in particular, when we talk about positive and economic indicators, both visible and recognizable. When someone says - we'll be counting, sorry Serbia is today a regulated legal state in which the institutions of the system function and everyone in Serbia needs to do their job and in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia dialogue cannot and should not be conducted at such a level. When someone says -- not important economic indicators, it doesn't matter that economic indicators are positive, it doesn't matter that investment contracts that bring new jobs, which stimulate economic growth, it doesn't matter that we increase pensions, it doesn't matter that we talk to representatives of the International Monetary Fund in the direction of increasing wages in the public sector, it only says that about those who can say such things, and not about us as representatives of the ruling coalition. It's simplistic, not to say, elemental ignorance and ignorant looking at this topic when you say you've taken pensions. We are talking about measures here, and these were measures to save Serbia's economy and measures concerning Serbia's future. In 2014, a colleague named Tomic spoke about it for a little while, and we had two different directions. Once, you know, when you're an opposition, you have absolutely no responsibility, we've talked about it many times, and then you can say what sounds nice. If they actually realized that, they'd have financial bankruptcy and financial failure. And we'd have that in a year or two if we had chosen that route and direction in 2014. And, for the second time, and the direction that meant the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the reform process, and through this reform process, we come up with positive economic indicators that we have today, and these positive economic indicators are a prerequisite for increasing pensions in Serbia. Positive economic indicators are visible and recognizable. The facts are irrefutable. During today's debate, someone said, "You've taken pensions, you've raised taxes, and I think that's how you charge your budget." It's elemental ignorance, so I don't say anything harder. We, I repeat, were in front of bankruptcy in 2013. Public debt 78%, now below 50%, by the end of the year. A huge part of the debt has been paid back. When it comes to public debt, Serbia is among the most successful countries in Europe. Third year in a row, we have a budget surplus. Well, we don't have a budget surplus because of the reasons that colleagues from individual opposition parliamentary groups have been instructed. Well, it has nothing to do with direct foreign investment, which makes Serbia today a leader in the region 1.4 billion euros in the first six months. It has absolutely nothing to do with economic growth, or growth which is 4.9%. That's not how long it's been in the last 10 years. It has nothing to do with the minimum labour price, which today is 155 dinars, has nothing to do with only one dedicated, hardworking, responsible and serious work, and is then politically unpopular, courageous and determined measure taken in 2014 and whose foundations are set in 2014. It is precisely thanks to the sacrifice of the pensioner, and today it has been a matter of sacrifice and understanding, patience, we have come up with positive economic indicators, and these positive economic indicators are a prerequisite for increasing pensions. When someone says today, you're giving up too little for the pensioners, no, this is an increase based on real, healthy foundations. So, this increase occurred through the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it was not taken from the budget, it was leaving a minus in the state register, and it was making social peace and increased wages and pensions, but through a responsible and serious approach, through rational and host behavior, it was the best solution. If there's any other rights, if there's any other alternative, some other suggestion, so let's hear it. We didn't hear it during today or during yesterday's debate. What is it that exists? We don't want to, and we won't let us go back to the period behind us, the period when we had negative economic indicators. She's right, co-worker Tomic, we respect the IMF's views and the Fiscal Council and the World Bank. It is good for them to see the positive effects of the Serbian government's reform course in the right way, but we will continue to work in the best interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43658	Thank you, fellow Milicevic. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43659	Before I look back at the presentation of our colleague's letter that came out. First, let me draw your attention to one thing that's missed you. The colleague said, a MP, that this law on reducing social benefits is being deceived by Serbian citizens. The honourable fellow Member said the reduction of social differences, which is essentially a big difference. As for her commentary that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is giving itself the right, and each government has the right in both the past and the present and the future, the right to propose to the National Assembly. It is the National Assembly that adopts the government's proposal. What the proposal will be depends on that congregation majority. What was the majority of the assembly in 2008 that adopted 2009 and 2010, yes, and if the law envisioned an increase in pensions, those pensions were frozen. This government is proposing that pensions grow faster than inflation, from the minimum or growth prices to a little, not to be that 1.2%, but to be 4%, 5%, 6% and to be far higher than the real cost of living. One more thing, to inform the public, one who had a pension of 23,000 dinars in 2014 will have after the adoption of this law 26.060 dinars. The one who had 26,000 will have 29,132 dinars. The one who had 38,000 will have 41,005 dinars. One who had 50,000 will have 53,954 dinars, and one who had 100,000 dinars will have 107,907. Citizens of Serbia, dear pensioners judge for themselves, this increase is not from credit, this increase is a real success of our government, this is an increase in the real success of all our citizens who have contributed in the past three years to Serbia's economic success and to share this success with their citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-26-0.u43660	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, we are finishing our work for today, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
