ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46210	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister Ms. Ana Brnabic, and also for the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic, although she is at least formally in charge of this issue, or she should be in charge, Mrs. Brnabic. But we do know that she doesn't mostly do her job, and in particular she can't affect the behaviour of ministers and relations in a government she didn't choose. In any case, formally speaking, the prime minister, the Prime Minister of this government, Ana Brnabic, is obliged and I ask and demand that he answer the question about the relationship of his ministers, about the controversy that her ministers are conducting publicly, and not about some effervescent issues, such as, I don't know, although these are not ephemeral issues, such as the reality of programmes, but about the most important state and foreign policy issues. I mean, not only this latest incident with Zorana Mihajlovic and Minister Vulin, but it's like some kind of political reality resuscitating and repeating itself from week to week, from month to month. My question is: is it a conflict, a serious conceptal conflict, as it seems, and then the Prime Minister would be obliged to resolve this conflict by replacing one, the other or both ministers, or is it, in turn, a falsified, staged conflict, that the public would be distracted again, and that everything, in fact, was coordinated from one centre, or by Alexander Vukic? Whatever it is, it creates a bad picture, a picture of confusion, disorganization, the absence of a single foreign policy. That is, therefore, the question of this incident and relations in the government. Are relations really as bad as public impressions are, and as ministers demonstrate with their policies every day, or is it, I say, a kind of game, which is again, as I would say, an insult to this Assembly, or government, and to this Assembly that chose this government? My second question, though related to the first, goes to the address of the foreign ministry, as well as the president of the government and the president of the state. It concerns yesterday's, therefore, still today, and the ongoing visits by Austrian President Fan der Belene, whose hosts and Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic thanked multiplely for the support it provides for Euro-integration, which is holding the EU enlargement issue high on the agenda, reminded of the bright moments from the common past, and sought to minimise those less bright and tragic ones from, say, 1914. What is my particular question – does the Prime Minister and the president of the state not know if they are not familiar with the case of everything a few days ago, when it is in the same Vienna, i.e. In Austria, a delegation of the foreign-political committee of the Serbian Parliament, of our home, had to leave the EU foreign security policy meeting, together with the Spanish delegation, because the hosts, these same Austrians who thank the Prime Minister and the president of the country, set not only the mark of Kosovo without that star, but also the flag of the so-called flag. Kosovo, equal to all other flags of participating countries? So, just a few days ago, we have this incident, and on the other hand, no one heard about it, a little who wrote about it any word. We as MPs don't know enough about this incident, which is only one in a row, how friends behave, with or without quotes, Ana Brnabić and Alexander Vukic, and they, therefore, thank him here publicly and melt in front of a high guest, not mentioning, if they didn't want the Prime Minister or Prime Minister to mention it, could have at least been the Foreign Ministry and therefore my question primarily goes to their address. So why hasn't our Ministry reported verbally or in writing to Austria, which, therefore, knows by which time has it broken even those standards, by us not too favourable EU standards, as Kosovo, or so-called Kosovo international organisations, is represented? So these are two very specific questions to which I expect an answer, although probably, and I'm afraid, it won't end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46211	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46212	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I call on the Prosecutor's Office to respond urgently to the drawing of the target of journalist Tatjani Vojtehovski by the director of "Secondly", who abuses trade unions and workers in an attempt to do his job and informs Serbia's public about the safety of workers working in Serbia. The right of all of us Serbian citizens, and, of course, both MPs and MPs, is to be properly informed about the truth in a timely and proper manner. Both the way and the attack on her is something that, above all, is an attack on all Serbian citizens and their right to know the truth. Is there more interest in all of us that workers work in decent conditions, in safe conditions and in its attempt to preserve many lives of workers in the future is something that tries to prevent them in this way? A question for the Minister of Energy and the Minister for Environmental Protection. We have seen in public some writings that talk about the announcement of ecological disasters in the most beautiful areas in Serbia – Zavojsko jezero, Vlasinski jezero, Uvac, by 20 meters drop in water stops in these lakes. The questions were also addressed to the Minister of Energy and the Minister for Environment for the following reasons. The use of water is prescribed in a way that is the general good used in the interests of all citizens of Serbia, not in the interest of the EPS. Since we know that the Zavojsko Lake power plant is a top power plant and that it is necessary for all the budgets and water capacity in that accumulation to work for about two months a year to compensate for the lack of electricity in a certain period, which is usually the summer period, it is obvious that this exploitation is higher than the rules are prescribed and it is obvious that the animal world is in such a danger in that lake. Otherwise, there are MPs here from the area and they know that it's the accumulation with the highest quality drinking water, and we also know here that some brave people from the Old Mountains are able to resist the pressure of capital that they want to build a series of mini-idroelectrics on the rivers of the Old Mountains, and that procedure is something that needs to be preserved anyway. I call on the Energy Minister to sit down with the Minister for Ecology and agree on what the real interests in the Republic of Serbia are. Otherwise, we saw a similar situation on Lake Uvac. We have a similar situation, and you can ask around when it comes to Lake Vlasin, and besides these capacities and important accumulations of drinking water, tourist capacities and what it means for the possible development of tourism both in Zlatibor County and in Lake Vlasinsko and in the Pirotski County, on the rivers of the Old Mountain is something that is irretrievably destroyed. I think people have the right to that information. That's why I call for an urgent answer to these questions until it's absolutely late, because it's obviously destroying people's right to live in these places.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46213	Thank you, colleague Kiric. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46214	The question – on what basis has Dragica Nikolic and her husband, former President of the Republic, been using the state villa for two years now and how much is the cost of the state in the name of using a 800-square villa, given that the creation of which Dragica Nikolic is engaged does not require such a square, and the scientific work, to whom is Tomislav Nikolic devoted, and how does it not mean so much square? The issue is addressed to the Serbian government. The second question is addressed to the D.A.'s office. What will the prosecution, i.e. the public prosecutor, and the authorities of the Serbian government, make a public statement to General Nebojsa Pavkovic that General Aleksandar Dimitrijevic, who was at the head of the military intelligence service, has been working for foreign intelligence services all the time, and has been working with The Hague tribunal further by falsifying facts, inventing events that additionally burdened Serbs held in The Hague? Alexander Vasiljevic did the same. What will the prosecution do and will it launch any initiative to prevent the further negative actions of these traitor generals? In doing so, will the Ministry of Defence do anything to show, for example, that, for future generations, the rank of generals should be carried by honorable and honest people, not by counters, such as Aleksandar Dimitrijevic, according to General Nebojsa Pavkovic, the Chief of Staff of the Yugoslav Army? The third question is addressed to the Serbian government in front of the SRS. I ask the government of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice – how much money from the budget was paid in the name of the damage done by persons who are illegal, brought and harassed against all the rules in the "Sabbe" campaign in 2003? You know, gentlemen, that in 2003, under the auspices of democracy and the fight against crime, nearly 12,000 people were brought to Serbia. Only Pinochet brought in more people in one day or in a few days. Considering that the murderers of Zoran Djindjic were discovered in a half 48 hours, this is an absurdity even greater in the fact that 12,000 people were brought in under suspicion of being involved or linked to the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Not a small number of these harassed people had anything to do with crime, especially the murder of Zoran Djindjic. People who are politically unequal to the current current government were detained, even the husbands of members of the current government were detained, all who were in conflict with individuals from the current current current government. They have legally exercised their rights and to this day the public of Serbia does not know how much of the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget have been paid on behalf of the real damage suffered by Serbian citizens. In order not to be distracted by how much democracy it was, what a fight against crime it was, I would only remind you that the names and photographs of participants at the assassination of Zoran Djindjic have been published for less than 48 hours. This has not yet been recorded in the world that so quickly revealed who killed the Prime Minister, and by today we do not know the real truth, but those people who were in the special forces, by order of the intelligence service of England, were to be the culprits in order for the complete special unit to be disbanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46215	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46216	Thank you, Chairman. The first question in front of the MPs' group of MPs and the Centre's Movement is addressed to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Mr. Aleksandr Gajovic. Namely, in the last season of "Life of Stories", journalist Tatjana Vojtehovski, two episodes were broadcast about the death of employees of the Task Industry in Luciani. There's another broadcast in this season. The company's union protest followed, which is very strange, as trade unions should be interested in the question of labour conditions and especially incidents that had fatal outcomes. The defence ministry supported the protest and issued a statement in which it supports the activities of the Union from the Luciani Task Force and their efforts to appeal to journalists to ignore these issues. The union even requested the arrest of journalist Tatjana Vojtehovski, and the ministry supported that kind of protest with its statement. So, the Ministry of Defence, in practice or state, calls for a public invitation to arrest a journalist with a press appeal. State Secretary Gajovic said it is not the Ministry of Information's duty to condemn every attack on journalists. In time, he said he would like to hear the other side about the attack on N1 television journalist. We ask the secretary of state -- how does he choose journalists who, in connection with the attacks on them, want to hear the other side versus journalists who don't want to hear the other side? We ask him - is it the ministry's duty to condemn just some attack, at least some attack, how much an attack may condemn, as far as it may not be, whether he is obliged not to condemn a single attack, or whether or not he is allowed to condemn attacks on journalists, or whether he thinks that the issue of the safety of journalists is within the jurisdiction of the ministry? We also refer questions to the Minister of Culture and Information – will this selective approach to the safety of journalists solve the duties of the Secretary of State in his ministry, Mr. Aleksandra Gajovic? The following question is referred to by the Minister of the Interior and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office – what are the effects of the Agreement on Co-operation and Measures for raising the level of safety of journalists? The agreement was signed on 26 December 2016 between the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the MUP and the press associations. Under the Agreement, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office was to form a special register of criminal acts committed at the expense of journalists, so we are interested – how many crimes have been recorded, prosecuted and ended by a convicted, judicial verdict at the expense of those who have committed violence against journalists? The fourth question is referred to the finance minister. A protest by military pensioners and associations of Serbian pensioners was announced for October 30th, and over the poor material situation in which the pension population, as a large and highly endangered social group in Serbia, is being announced. The issue concerns the development of the 2019 budget and is we interested – is the Ministry in the 2019 budget planning to budget funds for the return of outstanding pension differences for which pensioners were denied during the four years of validity of the Law on the temporary way of calculating pensions? I'll explain what we're looking for. To be told, does the budget predict that the amount of these reductions, which we estimate to be around 90 billion, will be paid through budget expenditures in 2019 as a whole or perhaps to wars? If in wars, what are these wars, with which frequency will they go, and how many will they be, and how long will the payment of that money last for the pensioners? So our parliamentary group thinks the amount is such that it can't be paid to the pensioners once, because it would be a major fiscal blow to the budget? We ask – is it acceptable that, no more than 90 billion, how much do we estimate that it is, paid to pensioners through, say, the broadcasting of government bonds with 10 six months of war for five years, by establishing it as a public debt on which the corresponding interest will be charged and on these bonds for five years would be pre-counted for some interest, in order to make sure that pensioners, what was not paid to them during the interim law was not fully and adequately returned and that they were fully compensated for the sacrifice that the letter of the provisional law had to bear to the state without anyone asking them whether they really wanted to and if they could do so at all? We would also like him to explain to us exactly what public interests are, which specifically projects financed from the budget by funds that have not been paid out of pension pensions to pensioners have been denied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46217	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46218	Thank you, Chairman. As so far, I will ask certain questions related to the work of our agricultural producers. These issues are specifically related to our dairy producers, our dairy farmers, who are concerned with the future and survival of "Niška mlekar" i.e. "Niška mlekar" with the drive in Srljiga, which was bought by "Imleka" in 2016. Before that, in 1995, Sreljska mlekara stopped working. In 2013, she began to work again, where she received close to 450,000 euros through a programme of assistance from the Serbian government and the SIEPA. Of these funds, 50 workers were employed and where "Sreljjska mlekara" had a daily milk processing of 25,000 liters. It's something that a small municipality like the community that I come from needed. Otherwise, “Niška mlekara” was also bought by “Imleka”, it produced up to that period close to 120,000 liters of milk a day. She had close to 300 workers. After privatisation, i.e. buying by "Imleka" this amount of milk has dropped drastically. In the Milky Way, he doesn't make any milk, he doesn't work and he doesn't make any cheese. There are several workers working in Zajecar, and in Nis, "Niška mlekara" now has thirty workers and processing, I think twenty thousand liters of milk a day, which means it's all under question. Otherwise, my question was directed to the Ministry of Business, or Ministry of Agriculture, and on the other hand, Imlek, after a bad situation occurred, had a huge fire in September of this year, where a complete processing facility near 500,000 was destroyed in Padinska Skela, where 500,000 liters of milk were processed daily. We understand that it is a difficult situation, and I would ask the question, apart from this, what is the fate of the "Skreljska mlekar" or "Niška mlekara" bought by Imlek? Will it be possible to "Imlek", since its capacities are now stopped, do not work in Padinska Skela, will it be possible to put into the function of "Skreljska mlekar" to work on milk processing, as milk capacity has now increased in Nis to 80,000 litres of milk, with 25 workers coming from Belgrade to Nis to work, to help with this processing? So, I think it would be good if now "Imlek" helped and that we really all, as socially responsible people, help now "Imlek", that's what the state is doing because "Imlek" proved to be socially responsible. Now, no milk producer has left without Imlek taking his milk, but Imlek continues, so I think it is really necessary to put Imlek in the position of the milkmaker in Srelig, to strengthen capacities in Nis, because it is very important that Imlek continues to work in Serbia. On the other hand, Imlek would like to help our cattlemen who are small producers, such as producers in Srlig, who have a small number of cattle, who do not have the ability to place an accent on the hygiene of the udders, because there are more of these somatic cells than recommended, and with the support of Imleka to provide lactose for these small producers for several land-uses, that there is one lactose, when it is taken milk to put into lactose immediately, to put on four degrees, so that it can survive and that tomorrow there is no problem with bacteria, somatic cells. I think it's very necessary and I think Imlek should do it. I expect that in the next period we will have the opportunity to put again into the function of the "Stoljiške mlekar", because the survival of the "Svrljjska mlekar" depends on several thousand of our cattle farmers, who have a number of cattle' throats of two, three, and more, but the problem is small producers, really do not have the opportunity to provide the hygiene conditions that should be, which "Imlek" requires. We can all support this together through subsidies to our small producers, help them provide lactose and make the quality of male cows higher. I think that everyone living in small areas, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Babusnica and those small municipalities, is necessary that the buyers of milk, Imlek and others pay much more attention to these small producers, because without these small ones, believe me, there is no development of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46219	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46220	Thank you, Vice President. I have questions for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Minister of State Administration and local self-government Branko Ruzic. What knowledge do they have about the fact that employees of the city administration of Panchevo, public enterprises in Pancheva, are not at work for days, and that is because they are at the same time in Luciani, in a field campaign for elections that are to be held in the municipality in December of the month. Dozens of workers from Pančev public enterprises and city administration, well-informed citizens of Pancheva claim to be staying at the Park Hotel in Ivanjica, where they say that after hard field work, they rest in a five-star hotel and a swimming pool, and that they will get their regular salary for a job where they are not back for days and obviously until the elections are held. Of course, one of the questions is who will pay these costs and what budget will the funds now be drawn from to pay for this so valuable treatment of activists from the Vojvodina municipalities for the Lucan elections? It is especially a question for Mrs. Brnabic, is it her model of decentralisation, since she tried to promote on the wings of decentralisation while she was the state administration and local self-government? Also, my question is what do they know about it, and how is it even possible, since the Pančevs are confident, that public administration employees, in the city administration of Pančevo, the SNS Commissioner, vice-president of the executive board of the party Branko Malovic, and since when did he become an employer of public administration employees and local self-government across Serbia, because the facts prove it? On the trail of the same place of events, which is the municipality of Luciani, I also have the next series of questions for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, but also for Minister of Labour Zoran Djordjevic, in particular why is he silent about protesting employees in MB Purpose from two days ago, in Lucani, which is the most direct pressure and represents the goal, i.e. their request for journalist Tatjana Vojtehovski to be arrested because in her show "Life of Stories" she dealt with topics and deaths of workers in this factory? Is it possible that as long as this propaganda is taking place against journalist Vojtehovski and not only that the state authorities are in a conspiracy of silence and is it because the parallel structures of SNS, as I have already said, not only lead propaganda against this woman, are they running their local campaign in Luciani? Is it because the journalist Vojtehovski on her show had even persons who, according to their own recognition, were members and very dedicated activists of the SNS, but would never let the people of Purpose Luciana die in peace? Will these protests continue to raise how my information is, as Branko Malovic already mentioned, and continue to organise strikers against this journalist? How long will that go, and how will all this look in the SNS concept? The only answer, unfortunately very unsavoury, very unarticulized and bad at the end, was given by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Information, Gajovic, who directly suggested Tatjana Vojtehovski, as he put it, to mediation with the other side. Well, I ask Minister Vukosavljevic, what are these new methods at the Ministry of Information, and President Brnabic, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that new journalists should participate in the mediation with those who call for their arrest? To agree with them how to get arrested by the state, rougher or softer, with or without a camera, until some new press conference is prepared for Alexander Vukic, so that these videos are released. What does that even mean? Of course, I am taking the opportunity to appeal once again to the key bottleneck, to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Republic Public Prosecutor Zagorko Dolovac, to finally get out of his comfort and to start doing his job and to protect journalists who have been drawing targets at the head for years back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46221	Thank you, colleague Tepic. The word is from a colleague, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46222	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister's question, since yesterday was World Day Against Poverty, and then they found some space in the media again. The devastating figures on the state of poverty in Serbia, as well as the fact that Serbia has not had a strategy to fight poverty since 2015, when the previous strategy expired and my question is, Prime Minister, when will a new strategy be adopted? Why are these numbers devastating and why are they saying that the policy that has been being conducted in Serbia for the past few years is bad and that Serbia cannot move forward with this policy? Today in Serbia, half a million people live in absolute poverty. This means that there is not enough for basic daily needs to have less than 12,000 dinars available monthly. The most vulnerable of poverty, which is a quarter of Serbia's citizens, is located, not at risk of poverty, the worst-flighted population is children. Kids, because they live in families that earn less than 30,000 dinars a month, and because parents and if they work or if they don't work, they get insufficient social support, they can't provide basic needs. Children who go to senior primary or secondary school classes today pay for textbooks of 15 to 20 thousand dinars of textbooks, 15 to 20 thousand dinars should pay for a family that has 30 thousand dinars per month. These numbers, besides young people, are the most endangered and elderly, who cannot, over a third of them, provide basic life needs. The inequality in Serbia is the biggest in Europe. The ratio of the richest quarter to the poorest is one to ten. One to ten. In Europe, this relationship is one to four, and these numbers and these percentages are unfortunately increasing year by year. To this government Serbia absolutely has no answer, there is not even that strategy to say – here, we have a strategy, because if it had a strategy, it would have to do something according to that strategy. Sometimes some of the laws dealing with this topic would be discussed in parliament. But, unfortunately, that's not the case, or it's the case that we're discussing in parliament a law on financial support for the family with children, that law is bad for those who need to be helped. It's bad for future mothers, it's bad for families with children, because it doesn't extend the circle of users of children's supplements and it doesn't allow those users who receive children's supplements to provide basic, necessary things to their children. Yesterday was the day, no one from the government answered the occasion, nor did the minister, nor did the prime minister, speak to the president of the republic. It's a devastating fact and it says that the government has no intention, no knowledge, no idea how to deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46223	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. The word is Branislav Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46224	I thank the chairman. First question for President Alexander Vukic. It's been more than six years since the signing of the Brussels Agreement. Serbia has met all the points of the agreement and withdrawn the state of Serbia from northern Kosovo and Metohija. By contrast, Pristina has not fulfilled any of its obligations. What are we still talking about with someone who doesn't meet any of the arrangements? Enough has been suggested that Serbia freeze further talks with Pristina, while Pristina does not form a community of Serb municipalities it committed to six years ago. Why not support the proposal that is in Serbia's interest? It's a reasonable and reasonable proposal that no one will be able to object to. We also suggested that if Pristina does not form a community of Serb municipalities within three months, the government declares the Brussels Agreement invalid because of Pristina's failure to meet. Serbia must also make reasonable moves and protect its interests. Why don't you do it? A question for the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, will you take part in the debate on the Kosovo and Metohija bill? I would remind you that the DJ has offered a solution to Kosovo and Metohija's problem with the Kosovo and Metohija bill, modeling the relationship between the Danish and the Faeroe Islands. Such a solution protects Serbia's interests, is in line with both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244. To find the best solution, we have sent calls to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of Serbia, the National Assembly, all relevant political parties, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Serbian Orthodox Church and other relevant organisations and individuals in society to take part in the draft law on Kosovo and Metohija. And to contribute to their suggestions the final draft of the law before the DJB group directs it to the assembly procedure. Have you read the draft of this law? Once again I call upon you to take part, I hope we agree that when it comes to such an important matter, vanity must not exist. Question number three, I am asking the Minister of Environment Protection, Mr Goran Trivan, as well as the Minister of Interior, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. It is about service processing contracts, which RTB Bor concluded between 2015 and 2018, with Red Metal, in which the restrictions on certain elements contained in copper concentrates are based on regulations applicable to imports of copper concentrates, imagine, in China. Thus, these contracts provide for the delivery of copper concentrates, with the announced content, live up to 100 ppm, cadmium up to 500 ppm and arsenic up to an incredible 5,000 ppm. Here is especially important to point out and thus point out again the non-regularity of the whole business between RTB Bor and Red Metal, to the contrary to such high content of harmful elements, accepted by contracts with Red Metal, on the other hand we had strict and finally negative responses to RTB Bor to other companies. Despite the perfect control by Red Metal, all the shops related to service processing contracts for copper concentrates, there were IRM Bor reports, which indicated that in certain copper concentrates there were contents of arsenic 5,000 ppm, as well as contents living 51.5 ppm. In addition to this, it should be noted that, according to the Bora air quality study for 2016, the average annual arsenic value was 105.8 nanogram per metre cubic, while the average annual value of 6 nanogram per meter per cubic metre was prescribed. The report showed that the measured value of arsenic in the air in 2006 was 17.6 times the allowed value. For 2017, it is as much as 27.8 times the limit. In terms of the above, I am asking the question of the Minister for Environmental Protection, Mr Goran Trivan, whether the RTB Bor, through a contract with Red Metal, is processed concentrates with dangerous and harmful substances of illicit content, i.e. the contents that are not in line with the concentrations of the prescribed environmental impact study for the reconstruction of the solvent and the construction of the sulphuric acid plant, and is that the reason for the increased arsenic content in the municipality of Bor? If so, on what basis and who gives himself the right to expose children, workers and citizens of Bora to serious health risks? And finally, on the same basis, I ask the question of the Minister of Interior, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic – who and how could he sign these disastrous contracts for the service processing of copper concentrates with Red Metal, thereby jeopardising the life and health of children, workers and all other citizens of Bor, and will it be responsible for that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46225	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46226	First question for Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. I ask that a security assessment be made against Srdjan Nog and Bosko Obradovic's MPs and related to the events that culminated on 15 October 2018. In the process before the First Basic Court in Belgrade, we have received confirmation of all the allegations we have already made, here for almost two years. Nenad Kovac admitted that he owned the company "Lanus" with Sava Terzic, which is otherwise hard to prove, and that the APR was never held as the owners of the company. Also, he admitted his contact with Zoran Copic, who was legally convicted in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina for money laundering from drug trafficking, as well as the Kumovic links with First General Prosecutor Ljubivoj Djordjevic. Over an hour and a half since the hearing, miraculously, the detention of the witness we have proposed in this procedure is determined, based on the fact that in a number of court proceedings, criminal and litigation proceedings, we have kept the data concerning our particular litigation procedure. So, you're determined to be in custody, based on a crime that's been decriminalized. Whether someone wants to kill in Dejan Dragojlovic's custody, as has already been tried several times, and the last time in 2011 and 2012, when Dragojlović 501 day was proven to be held in illegal detention and about what there are notes in both court files and county prison. Are we next on the list, as a distraction to these powerful men and unfortunate witnesses Bosko Obradovic and I? Details of this case and the report from the hearing will be delivered to you personally today. A question for the President of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, President of the Supreme Cassation Court, High Council of the Judiciary and Minister of Justice: how it is possible that the Court of First Instance judge in Belgrade, Marija Jankovic Debeljak, leads the trial in the K25011/10 criminal proceedings against the defendants charged with the criminal offence of abuse of power in the economy, which was removed from the Criminal Code on 1 March 2018, as well as two crimes for which the absolute obsolescence of criminal prosecution took place. How is it possible for the Council of the First Basic Court in Belgrade to reach a solution that determines the detention of the defendant under whom these crimes are being prosecuted, meaning, decriminalized and outdated? And how is it possible for a defendant to be appointed as an official defender in this criminal proceedings, even though he has a chosen and authorized defence in the case? A question to the President of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the High Council of the Court and the Minister of Justice: how it is possible to reject the request for the exemption of Judge Marija Jankovic Debeljak in the K25011/10 procedure, although she and the party in the litigation, indicted by the defendant in this case, as well as the applicant of the criminal charges against the defendant in her case, precisely because of the fact that he filed a lawsuit against her. So in the same court, everything happens. Is it possible and is it allowed, by law, to file litigation or other lawsuits and charges against judges, or is it perhaps a criminal act and a criminal act because judges are outside and above the law? Also, how is it possible for the President of the High Court to rule illegally on the exemption of the Court of Justice? The issue of Public Prosecutor of the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Beogad, Ljubivoj Djordjevic, Public Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Natasa Krinakapic, Public Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Tomislav Kilibard, Republic Public Prosecutor Zagorko Dolovac, Justice Minister and State Major Prosecutors: how is it possible that the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Deputy Sofia Radak, prosecutes the person for the criminal act of abuse of power in the economy, which is decriminalized, and suggests that the detention of the accused be determined? How is it possible for the same deputy public prosecutor to admit, without anyone's permission, that he was taking away parts of the court files in the same case, and that the district attorney, Ljubivoje Djordjevic, is providing her with support and protection? Does this have anything to do with the fact that Ljubivoj Djordjevic's godfather, Nenad Kovac, is a person connected to the allegedly damaged Sava Terzic and has a direct financial interest because he is behind the kidnapping of Certus from the defendant Dejan Dragojlovic, who is being prosecuted for a crime that has been decriminalized and is being held in custody? In all this, Dragojlovic filed a complaint against Sofia Radak for insult, and it is also being conducted by a disciplinary procedure because she took and kept home 350 items, many of which became obsolete. I will address these allegations to all institutions, associations, embassies and international organisations, and I will insist that the competent associations of prosecutors, judges and lawyers give their word. A question for the Minister of Justice and the Director of County Prison: can you guarantee the safety and security of Dejan Dragojlovic, who has been arrested on the basis of a decriminalized act within the District Prison, because in 2011 and 2012, more times he has been held in custody, what are there records of both court records and records in the County Prison? You'll be held accountable if anything happens to Dragoylovic in custody.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46227	Thank you. The word is Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46228	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear fellow MPs, today I would like to ask the question of Minister of Education, Mr. Sarčević. Namely, the problem of the obesity of preschool children and especially of school age is growing in Serbia. Although medical and media, healthy lifestyles are promoted, mostly regular and healthy nutrition, children of school age and in primary and secondary schools are increasingly using fast food from bakeries, fries, crackers, chips and other unhealthy snacks. Irregular and irregular diet, especially fast food, as a predominant part of the diet of school children, have obesity, but also other serious health problems. If we add to that very weak physical activity, then it is clear that our children are growing immaturely. The obesity causes other health problems and various metabolic disorders, particularly diabetes. One of the reasons for this is the growing number of school cuisines serving healthy meals with precisely determined energy properties. Unfortunately, many children, including their parents, avoid school kitchens because it is easier for them to buy cakes in kiosks and in bakeries, with additives and a circle of many schools, so that children do not get out of school to buy snacks, so that children are offered fast food. We know that the Ministry is already taking certain measures to train existing school cuisines, which we particularly welcome and commend and link to this I would like to ask Mr. Minister, whether these school cuisines will be trained recently, how many school cuisines can be trained and whether funds will be provided for these purposes in the next financial year. It must be necessary to invest in these facilities from the point of view of health and the safety of food preparation for children. We believe that the return of compulsory school kitchens with healthy calorie-controlled food would contribute to the creation of healthy habits in our children's diet and prevent the many negative consequences of unhealthy nutrition in children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46229	Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Please sign in. The word is Jadranka Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46230	I thank the chairman. My presentation points to Prime Minister Brnabic and this concerns a serious problem when it comes to the ballet of the National Theatre, in fact, when it comes to ballet players in general. Although ballet players have, or ballet artists have, an unfettered job experience, their retirement is in complete disharmony with the demands of ballet profession. So it is known that ballet artists begin their artistic careers very early, but unfortunately they last for a short time, so for about 40 years now, their body as well as athletes has simply not been able to meet the high demands of this difficult and beautiful profession. And then we come to a vicious circle that new ballet players can't be accepted, and one part of the existing ballet players can't participate in performances, thus creating one serious difficulty at all in performing repertoires in the organization, and let's not talk about simply stopping the progress of our ballet, and hence these serious branches of our culture. I was a while ago in this conversation with the Minister of Culture and Information, and I must say, the truth obliges me to say that I was also pleasantly surprised, although it should be an integral part of the work of each ministry, but indeed the Ministry of Culture has made a serious shift in the protection of the interests of ballet players, especially when it comes to rewarding, because I believe with many difficulties and many obstacles they had to overcome one legal fact when it comes to rewarding, which is that ballet players can't have high professional equipment, or there is no college for ballet players. Also, I realized then that the problem I'm talking about now is beyond one ministry, so I'm talking to Prime Minister Brnabic about asking that as soon as possible, here I suggest that he receive, as soon as possible, the director of ballet, he's a long-time director and I think he can give out a lot of good ideas, that, together with the ministries, this must be included by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, and I would say the Ministry of Education, I would not now explain why we don't have time. So, I pray that within the shortest possible time, this problem within the law is resolved, it is a long problem, it takes a long time, not to say a decade's problem, it has not been solved by the previous government, and I would say that it has not tried to solve it, although many who came to power since 2000 have done everything to show up as the only and exclusive bearers of everything that is good, smart and creative in culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46231	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dusko Tarbuk, Dr Aleksandra Jerkov and Mr Ivan Kostic. We continue the joint principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 10 of the agenda, according to the order of the application for a word. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46232	I would like to thank the chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, for talking about the Construction Products Act. I believe this law will have a significant impact on the development of construction in Serbia, as one of the most significant industries. Serbia is adopting a completely new law that will in one comprehensive way regulate this area and what may be important to say, for the sake of Serbian citizens, that all countries in the environment have already adopted such a law, and that it has been applied in the EU since 1989. The adoption of this bill will above all raise the level of quality of materials used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other buildings, which will result in buildings built in Serbia being safer and safer for Serbia's citizens' health and life. Also, raising the quality of materials will make domestic construction producers more competitive on the EU market. So far, the legislative proposals have not been regulated to allow innovative products placed on the construction market in Serbia, and this is now defined by this law, thus allowing our producers that produce for the domestic market, but also for the EU market to be more competitive, thus opening up additional space for the development of construction in Serbia. Unharmonised domestic legislation with EU legislation also has a negative impact on our business entities that operate and products for the market in Serbia, but also on the EU market, because they have double procedures and double costs, since they have to comply with the laws in force in Serbia and the laws in force in the EU, so that the adoption of this bill and the problem will solve themselves. The problems that will also be tackled by the adoption of the Construction Products Act will have a significant impact on Serbia's overall development in terms of greater use of funds from the EU's pre-accession funds, which are available to Serbia, because now, when the projects financed by EU funds are implemented, there are major problems, precisely because the EU requires them to produce, i.e. materials that are being installed in the area of construction to be of high quality, i.e. to be according to certain standards. Since we don't have an accredited domestic body for a conformity assessment that will only now be achieved by this law. Although we have adopted almost all harmonised standards in the previous period to implement projects, we have to hire bodies from the EU to assess the quality of construction products and probably this is one of the reasons that Serbia may not be using funds from pre-accession EU funds, it is precisely that difficulties arise when the project is implemented with the installation of materials according to European standards. Also, domestic export-related construction producers can apply harmonised standards only if they hire an EU body and these are some of the problems that will be addressed by adopting this bill, which will significantly affect the development of construction in Serbia. In the end, I would just briefly like to refer to the remarks that DS MPs had during the discussion yesterday, in the lack of arguments regarding the work of your ministry, regarding the color of the helmet you wear on the site. I'd like to commend your presence on the ground, or construction sites. I would like to commend the results of your ministry's work, to tell you to continue to build bridges, railways, miles of highways that bring us new investors, and new investors bring new jobs, and as long as your Ministry has the results of the work it's done so far, you have the support of SNS MPs to wear a helmet that suits you best. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46233	Thank you. The word is Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46234	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when it comes to the draft law on construction products, it is most important to note that, by applying this law, the conditions to be created for construction products placed on the market in the Republic of Serbia, which are built into buildings, meet the prescribed requirements regarding meeting basic requirements for buildings and certainly creating an ambience for a healthy competition for domestic market participants. It is particularly important at a time when we have more and more construction sites in Serbia, when we have a record number of investments, that the level of quality of material is rising, which is used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other buildings. The most important facilities that will be built in the future will be safe and environmentally acceptable and will preserve the lives of people's health, and that is certainly first. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, the proposed solutions are certainly on the agenda to address certain shortcomings observed in the current application of the applicable laws. Then, certain standards are specified, and all in order to improve and improve construction in Serbia, which will contribute to further progress on the World Bank list in business terms, i.e. Dujing Business List, and here I would add that the solutions applied in these areas position Serbia according to the latest reports on the tenth place in the field of building permits. In three years of reforms in addition to all the efforts and responsible work of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the responsible Government, Serbia has a good rating in this area to all countries in the environment and in relation to all countries in the environment, Serbia today has the best and most modern system of issuing building permits, and in line with the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its work on digitalisation effectively working on further promotion of software in order to make it even faster and easier to issue building permits and all electronic documents. When we talk about construction, specifically in the work relating to the amendments to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Objects, it is important to point out that the application of this law in the period from November 2015 to today has led to 166,000 solutions. For the sake of comparison, I will point out that over the past 15 years, 150,000 solutions have been made according to all regulations relating to the legalisation of the facilities. It says that now in Serbia it is done effectively, that it is done transparently, that control is carried out, that reports are regularly delivered and that solutions that are cheaper, better and safer for citizens of the Republic of Serbia are applied. When it comes to laws defining air traffic in Serbia, I will immediately point out that the President of the Republic of Serbia, while he was prime minister, has continued to do so today, and this current government has contributed to the development of this area. The government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of air traffic primarily deals with the development and improvement of air traffic services, further air traffic management and reception and the dispatch of aircraft, passengers, goods and mail in international air traffic. The responsible work is told by the results recorded from 2013 to 2017, and thus the transport of passengers is up by as much as 60%. With 3.5 million passengers, we now have 5.6 million passengers. The transport of goods from 8,000 tonnes to 22,000 tonnes has increased. The number of flights across the territory of the Republic of Serbia and flights within the territory of the Republic of Serbia has increased by as much as 26%, from 512,000 to 643,000. Such good traffic-technological results are accompanied by excellent economic effects. Total and direct revenues in the air traffic system have increased by 75% from 40.54 billion to 71.1 billion dinars, while total indirect revenues are estimated at more than 2.2 billion euros. A special impact on all of this, which is the basis for increased traffic and an excellent economic effect, has international co-operation. Advocating President Aleksandr Vukic for the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in the world and recognising Serbia as a good partner also suggests that 30 air traffic agreements have been reached in the last four years, i.e. 30 air traffic agreements, and yet, comparisons are done, that is three times more than in the period 2000 to 2014, when Serbia was led into ruin. I would take the opportunity to say that the proposed solutions and the implementation of the applicable regulations contributed to the recognition of "Er Serbia" in 2018 in terms of the highest safety assessments, the maximum seven stars by "Erline Ratings", the relevant world institutions dealing with the assessment of quality of services and the level of safety in airlines. What is particularly pointed out as a special effort and the work of President Aleksandar Vukic is that particularly positive effects are expected from the completion of the ANT concession process worth 1.5 billion euros. The proposed solutions on the agenda certainly move forward with the positions in which the Republic of Serbia is located. In the Republic of Serbia, since the responsible government has implemented the SNS programme, a surplus has been reached in the budget, we have over 150,000 employees, we have 16 billion euros in project value, we have a record number of sites, we have a building corridor of essential importance. It is certainly important to remind at this time of Corridor 10, Corridor 11, highway E-763, bypass around Belgrade, fast first-class traffic Novi Sad-Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, highway E-761, Moravski Corridor, highway Belgrade-Sarajevo, and all of this is constantly being rehabilitated and state and municipal roads and constantly working on building bridges. So the government of the Republic of Serbia is working intensively to create conditions that will contribute to the further development of the Republic of Serbia. They're opening up, and there's gonna be factories next to these nice and modern cars. The employment and employment of Serbian citizens in these factories are being employed, and this certainly contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In view of its geographical location, Serbia is indeed a crossroads of important traffic flows linking the south and north, east and west of Europe. Transport, in general, and infrastructure are the most important areas of industry and are the basis for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. The goal is to create secure transport networks that will attract new investments, which will improve the quality of life and contribute to improving relations with countries in the region. Certainly, in the voting day, the SNS will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46235	Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic. (Not present. The word is Gjorge Komlenski. He's not present. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46236	Thank you, Chairman. I will also use these few minutes to try from the Deputy Prime Minister to get answers to questions I didn't get yesterday, and they are related, first of all, to the results so far in implementing the Law on Law of Law on certain changes that are now being proposed. Repeat, Minister, your words when this law was passed three years ago to parliament, that it is your responsibility to implement the law now and how we will measure the success of this law based on the results of its application. What are the results of his application today? The fact that out of 2,050,000 listed objects, 183,000 were legalized. In three years 183,000? That way, you won't finish this job in 30 years, and then it puts into question a possible deadline for the implementation of this five-year law. Minister, you're here by changing the law like a snake's legs trying to hide a satellite footage that was reportedly made in 2015. The footage so far, according to the law, I will repeat, must be available to citizens in electronic form on the website of the construction ministry. That's what the law said, and that wasn't possible. When you go to the Ministry site, he sends you to the Katastra site. The site of the catastra says – only an employee in the municipality or in the cataster can get an internet insight, and the citizen can go somewhere, to the competent law enforcement authority, and now you're putting it into law. So you're reducing the possibility that you've never essentially made possible to the citizens, and your party colleague, deputy mayor of Belgrade, is yesterday talking about how you're now introducing an opportunity for citizens to see the video online, which is true, which is quite the opposite of what you're proposing here in parliament today. You didn't give me an answer to why this change? If you're doing everything transparent, why are you hiding that video? You're hiding it so you can legalize everything that's been built in three years since this law was passed. You can turn your head all you want, you said here that by passing this law three years ago, wild construction in Serbia will be the point of view, that this law will solve it. These are your words because this law is applicable. Well, how is it applicable? How many buildings have been built illegally in Belgrade and Serbia in the last three years? Twenty percent of the buildings are built without permission. One of these facilities is an object in the Kopalnik National Park. What did you say about building national parks? You said – one is national parks, nature parks in the first and second degree. There is no construction in any variant, and there is no law under your laws, nor according to the existing one that exists, nor according to which I hope parliament will adopt. That's what you said three years ago. So, what's that bar doing at the top of a famous investor from Smederev for over a year? Who are you kidding with the story of how you did your part of the job? You can tell your part of the job that you did the moment that the facility was destroyed, not that you were playing hide-and-seek with Minister Stefanovic whether or not there was a police assistance. I'll tell you, the day it was meant to be the execution of that facility, there were over 50 beatings in that facility. They said the people who were there and saw it. I wasn't, I wasn't a kicker. You have party squads of beatings, we don't have them. So these people were there ready to deal with the people that you were supposed to send to tear down an illegally built facility and it's a good thing they didn't approach it, because I believe they'd get beat up, because the police were nowhere, but you, you and the Deputy Prime Minister, can't say I did my job as a ministry. You're the Deputy Prime Minister. Why didn't the MUP come to assist you on that occasion? And how long will you wait until the next chance? You didn't answer me why the law deletes the funds from taxis belonging to municipalities and cities can only be spent on the construction of construction land and infrastructure? Why is it deleted now, so you can spend on New Year's lighting, fountains, masts and stuff like that? You said it yourself - we put this in law so that the funds would be spent on purpose. Now you're erasing it. This law cannot pass the Assembly without asking the question of the responsibility of your work, that is, in the past three years. Why wasn't the wild construction stopped? How can this object on the Kopalnik have an object for legalisation if it was built in 2017? Is someone under arrest for putting that item in the file? How many of these empty files are in Serbia's municipalities and cities today? What's the tariff for putting a specific item in? You know that. You know what the tariff is. Of course, the tariff is between 20 and 50 euros, but that money obviously doesn't take someone who should. And with this law, you want to put that money in your pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46237	Thank you. (Alexander Markovic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46238	I thank the chairman. I want to advertise Article 27, which says that the President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. I think you've had to take every possible step to prevent the speaker from saying the truth here, to insult, to slander, but that's what we've already gotten used to when he's on the issues, although I must admit that I expected the previous speaker at the beginning of his exposure to direct us here an apology, an apology for his coalition partner who yesterday, in the most monstrous way, referred creepy threats to the death of Prime Minister Ani Brnabić, President of the Republic, SNS, thus calling for the murder of the same. But since there is no apology from the previous speaker, I can believe that he agrees with what Srdjan Nogo, as his partner, said. Secondly, where the Rules of Procedure has been broken, you have allowed it to make some false and some false information when it comes to illegal construction. It is not in any way responsible for the quantity and number of illegally built buildings in Serbia. It is his party who is responsible for the fact that we have hundreds of thousands of illegal objects in Serbia. Who was in power then? Who allowed illegal construction? So the same Tadic who was president in two terms, whose time was illegally built, while the previous speaker was the head of his party's parliamentary group here. He didn't make any noise at the time. He didn't mind at the time. He found something to complain about today. Well, during his rule, that famous pasture was illegally built on Vracar, where exactly the defence minister, Mr. Sutanovac, from his party built the building and has apartments. At least here he has the right to honor someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46239	Mr. Markovic, do you want the National Assembly to come forward in the voting day? (Alexander Markovic: No. No, no, no, According to the Rules of Procedure, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46240	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising a violation of article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I think everyone, and it's a good thing the citizens had a chance to see how members of this federal, congested and whatever opposition...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46241	What member of the team?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46242	I said, "Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly." How they treat the government of the Republic of Serbia, how they view the citizens of this country and how they see politics. My colleague Markovic asked nicely one thing, they talk about everything, but they draw attention from the essence. Please don't interrupt me, please. It's about calling the lynch, the murders, the rapes. We are not one, nor an apology, to be fenced, representatives of the opposition who are in parliament and say – I am not standing by those, I am not with them, I cannot be with Nog or other con men who want to hang, kill, rape. In Serbia, it can't be a practice. SNS MPs and all normal and civilized people will never vote for it in Serbia. We will not allow it and ask that such people be legally sanctioned in every way possible. Such are not the place in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. We have received dozens of messages only during the afternoon today where we are asked to urge such people to be forced against the wall and to force them in a political way to resign and leave this Parliament. What citizens will not vote for, em, by treating citizens, by calling for the murder of legally elected authorities, absolutely taking away their right to be representatives of anyone in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46243	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46244	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107(2) At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other people’s MP and to use offensive expressions. I've heard all sorts of things here, and this is where our Ministerial, Fully Ministry is insulted, and I'm not talking about lies. Actually, I'm just gonna talk. How can they not be ashamed? So they devastated this country, closed down 590 companies, nakeded, so they brought the naked back to the Republic of Serbia. Not only that, in 2008, they fired 400,000 people and now they honor us here for wild construction. It's a shame. Two million and 41 objects, so when did we get all this from 2012 to 2018? Please, the child would be surprised. That's what you did, during your reign, so many objects, so much illegal construction, and it's a shame that you honor us. I think it's simply inappropriate and that if this happens again, I'll react differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46245	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Ljiljana Malušić: No. No, no, no, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46246	Article 103. Article 103 provides when a breach of the Rules of Procedure can be used, but also Article 103 says what is done in cases that the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been misused for the exercise of political views or for replication. The previous speakers, in particular the first two MPs to come forward and point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, absolutely did not talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but they presented their political views, qualifications, accusations and concrete insults to my personal account. So I think, Chairman, that you should have reacted and applied the measures this Rules of Procedure gives you, to make one such act impossible. I've been accused of all sorts of things here. First of all, I am an MP for the Serbian Dveri movement, I am no one's coalition partner, I am not in any alliance with any other MP, except for the Dveri MP group, and I ask that other colleagues do not insult me, bringing my name into any connotation that I belong to any other group. So, I'm an only Member of the Dwyer. Also, I invite everyone to take a good look at what I said not in the paper, but in a direct video, and then to talk about my words. I stand behind my words, and if there's anything controversial, there's the D.A.'s office to react and let him call me if I've broken any member of the law. It's not you who need to interpret whether the law has been broken, it's the D.A.'s office. Please, in my presentations with fellow Members of the People's Parliament and when we disagree politically and when we have a sharp debate, I have never presented personal insults and personal qualifications, so I would ask colleagues from the ruling majority to maintain that level of decency, at least in communication with me. There are also people who know me a lot longer than we are MPs, personally and before politics, to be decent enough, civilized enough. There's no need for personal insults, and I ask you to respect that. Yes, we can talk about my political views, that we can talk about what I said, but don't implicate any of what I didn't do or that I belong somewhere I don't belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46247	Thanks, buddy. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Srjan Nogo: No. No, no, no, Injury of the Rules of Procedure Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46248	I thank the chairman. Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm the one who knows Mr. Nog longer than he does politics, and that's true, but I'm so much more sorry that he let himself say what he said and didn't get the strength, and he had the chance to do it a little while before he had the chance to apologize, but he missed that opportunity and repeated his words, unfortunately. I think it's a shame for the National Assembly, I think it's a shame for all of us here, but it's the one who should actually be ashamed, and that's Mr. Nogo, obviously he's not ashamed. I want to point out one more important thing, which is that we should not be interested here within a party dispute and within a party division in this false patriotic alliance or movement, as they call it, the Dveri, so some of them are for the Alliance for Serbia, some of them are not for the Alliance for Serbia. We and the citizens of Serbia don't care about that. We know he's the leader of that so-called. Dveri Bosko Obradovic and the co-ordinator of the parliamentary groups here, all of these joint parliamentary groups, are firmly defined for co-operation with Djilas and for co-operation with the Alliance for Serbia. That if Mr. Nogo may not personally think it is, he doesn't need to bother the National Assembly and he doesn't need to take our time. Let them discuss it on their party bodies, then. Anyway, I'm calling on the previous speaker to apologize for what he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46249	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. All right, let's get on with it. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go. Zorana MIHILOVIĆ: First, Mr. Djurisic, I hear perfectly, if we can only calm the MPs, because I don't know which Nogo is here, the one who's saying he's going to rape or the one who wants to confirm it one more time. So, Mr. Djurishic, I hear perfectly, there's no need to yell. When you talk about legislation, I'll tell you again what we talked about yesterday and you got all the information from me, but we'll repeat it for the sake of the Serbian public. So in the period from 1997 to 2014, it's 17 years, a total of 150,000 solutions were made on legislation or legalisation, then it was called legalisation, meaning, in 17 years, 150 thousand solutions. When the SNS received citizens' trust in 2012, then in 2014, what we inherited from you and your politicians, statesmen, ministers, etc. was almost two million illegally built objects on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So you left that in our amanet, debts, and two million illegally built objects. We have worked hard and passed the Law on Law at the end of 2014, this Parliament voted on it, and within three years this law has brought about strong solutions 183 legal solutions. Also, we did what no one had done before, because he probably didn't want to meet that data, we made a list of illegally built objects. Nearly two million illegally built buildings, that's what the authorities left behind. We were not satisfied with the dynamics, we saw in practice what is further happening, and that is why we are in front of the MPs yesterday and today, in front of all of you with amendments to the Law of Law, because we believe we have to solve this issue. But what's going through your exposure all the time is that we're supposed to be building illegally. When I say to me, you mean from the ruling coalition, that we know how much something costs or doesn't cost. It's probably the experience you have. It's probably some big, long-term experience you guys have. So, on the contrary. The government of the Republic of Serbia wants to resolve this issue. He can't solve it all at once, he can't seem to be fast, so today these changes are being completed in front of you. But what I think is additionally important is, firstly, that you do not rebel against the citizens of Serbia. All who built illegally after 27 November 2014 won't be able to maim themselves. The census made it clear what could be mutilated, so he gave the first number of illegally built objects, then gave what could be mutilated, what could not be mutilated. The other thing, related to satellite footage, no satellite footage is hidden, he was purchased, among other things, from a World Bank loan given to a cadastre. We used part of it for satellite footage. I don't see what the problem is that he sees it well. So you can go to the cadastre, you can get satellite footage from the building inspector, and you can get your satellite footage from the law enforcement authorities, too. Isn't that transparent? I think it's very transparent. When you talk about revenues, i.e. total revenues from the legislation, to this day, the state of Serbia, together with units of local self-government, has made 3.9 billion dinars only on the final income of the legislation. Of this, units of local self-government received 2.7 billion, and 1.2 billion are in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why can't it stand in our law now? It was a suggestion from the Ministry of Finance that it should go to the Budget Law and certainly define the statutes of the units of local self-government, to go to the infrastructure, just like we said. So, with us everything is clear and everything is known and there is an answer to every question, but there is no answer to the question – and what have you been doing for 10 and more years and how could you allow two million illegally built objects? Because, by the way, the largest number of illegally built objects was not created in the 1990s, but formed from 2000 to 2012, according to the data we have. Thank you. Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Jelena Zaric Kovacevic is waiting and has sought a replica of the political party's mention, as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46251	That's right, thank you, Chairman. It seems that the most critical or those who have had the worst, catastrophically poor election results have failed to come to power, or criticise those who now support the Union for Serbia's tycoons, who have had very much and probably enough time to do something about both legalisation and all other issues, and have done nothing. I am interested, say, now, what was Tadic doing while in two terms he was president from 2004 to 2012, what did the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, in which he played the ficus, while Tadic ran all the jobs? Why didn't he stand up for the fight against illegal construction at the time? Did they mind filing criminal charges against the tycoon they're with, filing criminal charges for crimes they know have been committed and involved in illegal construction? Who prevented them from destroying illegal objects all those years and introducing the system and introducing these illegal objects into the legal system? When they have no arguments, they mention all sorts of nebulises, they mention the beatings, the tycoons, the lies, they serve the false ones, I guess it's a close insult to them, because everyone in the Alliance for Serbia is probably sitting there thinking about who they're going to rape, who they're going to hang, whether it's going to be on the terraces or maybe it's going to be on another square. I don't know, that they may not be going to other cities in Serbia, for now they're just Theazi, but it might be in some other markets in Serbia. They showed what kind of policy they were leading and showed what kind of policy they'd be leading. It's a policy of violence, it's a policy that these people don't need. And let them continue, for our people no longer have a brief mind. Citizens know that they voted in the elections, i.e. they did not vote them, better said, and the citizens will know that all these threats are priced in the next elections. Because imagine, if the presidents of the government and the president of Serbia were to be threatened in such a way, by hanging on the terraces, what would they do to other citizens, who are insubordination in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46252	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46253	Thank you, Minister. So, according to the current law, the citizen has the right to see the satellite video via the Internet, the website of the Ministry of Construction Affairs. Can a citizen do that today? Yes or no? He can't. He can't do a citizen today. You're making him go somewhere to watch that video. Now you're putting it in the law, and that's a fact. Anyone can go now and check the procedure. Don't deceive the public. You're talking about a 17-year-old period of wild construction. How long have you been in power in those 17 years? You weren't even in power? Do you have any amnesia about some years there in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006? You don't remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46254	Hey, buddy, talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46255	So 17 years. My party has been in power for eight years and we bear responsibility, of course, but so do you, Minister. You said when this law was passed, wild construction will be terminated, construction permits are issued in a few days, I don't know where we are, in which place "Ding Business Lists". So, where did the coffee shop come from at the top of the Copalniks, the minister? How does an object of over a thousand squares at the top of Serbia's national park without even one single paper? Do you have an answer to that? Can you explain that? If you're law enforcement, if the laws are good, if this government respects all the laws, if all SNS officials stick to the law, where did that object go for a year and when will it disappear?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46256	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46257	I would like to ask Mr Djurisic if he remembers who introduced the mafia into Serbia's travel business after October 5th, 2000? Does the company "Difens Road" remember? Do you remember the plague? Does he remember his friends from Vojvodina, Borovica and similar to him, who had a wallpaper and a monopoly on asphalting all over Serbia? And many millions of euros have been made by the state of Serbia and these roads have never been completed. You have introduced the mafia into all construction jobs in Serbia both when it comes to low construction and when it comes to high construction. Marijan Risticevic talked about it yesterday. The big, huge washing machine, the steam washing machine is currently on Zlatibor. One of the main money launderers, the dirty money, the money that probably comes from drug trafficking is currently going on in Zlatibor. That's what Milan Stamatovic does. One of the leaders of your alliance for Serbia, then you find yourself telling us whether a portal works on the Ministry of Civil Engineering site or not. You people have introduced the mafia into Serbian construction. Today we suffer the consequences of the fact that from 2000 to 2012 the classical mafia had a monopoly on all construction jobs in Serbia. You made a pact with that mob on October 5, 2000. At the time they were your friends, then they were your friends, then you went through their fairies, bathed in their pools, because you were supposed to shoot down, as you said, the Free Milosevic regime, so when the devil came for his own, you said – e, no, no, they're not our friends anymore, they're criminals. There were other criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46258	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right on the replica Marko Djurisic, then Srdjan Nogo. (Srbislav Filipovic: Have you taken a bath? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46259	I haven't bathed, or seen any criminals, and I believe that you can today, through your high-ranking party officials sitting in responsible places in security services, do all that to check out where and where and where he is, what he's been doing and where he's been, and what criminal he's been seeing and who took the money from whom. We have been here for two years as the Social Democratic Party propose law. The essence of the law is to verify the property of anyone who has performed any political function since 2000. You two have refused to put that law on the agenda for two years. I will never report to answer and justify who did what, until that law is passed and tested by the state as your own, as you control it, all that was done in the previous 18 years. So let's see who's got what, who's how he got it, how and then we can answer who's a thief, who's not a thief. Until then, I won't answer words like this. (Serbian Filipovic: Let's see. I only ask you, Chairman or anyone else, to respect the Rules of Procedure when it is said that someone has been stealing, that someone has taken something, because it is without proof that anyone can't be told about it in this House. I've been putting up with insults here for four and a half years... (Srbislav Filipovic: You will suffer more. )......................................................................................................... Listening to me as a yellow thief. (Srbislav Filipovic: Yes. The yellow thieves in Serbia are gone today. Yellow thieves have become blue, black or whatever color you are. (Serbian Filipovic: You are a real criminal. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46260	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. I've been with you here for over four years. I've never really heard anyone call you personally. Marko Djurisic: Now you haven't heard. No, no, none of you. No one's personal to you. (Marco Djurisic: Now he was telling me – where I was taking a bath and that. He just told me. ) Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46261	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about the next thing. The so-called Alliance for Serbia, led by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic, etc. They're trying to create an atmosphere in Serbia like it was before October 5th. There is a new Slobodan Milosevic to be found and they found him in the image of Alexander Vukic and the same pogromic atmosphere was created on the eve of October 5th. I remind you, on the eve of October 5th, at one of the DOS rallys, that is what you remember as I do, because Nenad Canak showed in Belgrade – here on this square I will hang Slobodan Milosevic, here will hang Slobodan Milosevic. Two days ago, Srdjan Nogo, who is every day salting our minds about how the court can do this, how the court can do that, says a man dead cold -- if Ana Brnabic, says, initialled, I guess it's paraphrased, the Dublin Agreement with the EU, then Brussels can order Serbia a million and 200,000 migrants, and we can take pictures then. It will be as if Davinic, Dinkic's minister, initialled a contract in the hotel room and we lost to arbitration, so it can happen with Ana Brnabic. That's why Ana Brnabic should be hanged at the same time at the Terrace, and next to her hanged Alexander Vukic. So it creates the same atmosphere that was created in Serbia on the eve of October 5th. Lynch, hanging, killings, we've got unspeakable journalists. Just to remind you, after October 5th and the day of October 5th, you set fire to the RTS building. Suddenly, Canak, in Novi Sad, used his stick to destroy the tablet on which RTS wrote. (Marco Djurisic: Time.) Yes, yes, I'm talking to all of you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46262	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46263	Let me just finish up a little bit. ... Because now you're all in the same camp. You are all in the same camp and Gilas and Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic and Shana Petrovic. You're all the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46264	Thank you. The right to replica has Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46265	It is nice that you have now shown and told the citizens of Serbia that you are ruling in the same way as Slobodan Milosevic in 2000, that you are stealing from the citizens of retirement, that you are stealing social benefits, that you are killing political non-equivocals, such as... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46266	Comrade Djurishic, this is absolutely not a speech. Marko Djurisic: What's this about? Was that the 2000 atmosphere? Can you listen to me? Can you do and make it minimum for this debate to be dignified on a civilized level? (Alexander Martinovic: Who was killed? I can understand debate, I can understand sometimes a little hard words, but I can mention killings, that some political party is doing it, I really can't let you do it, and precisely because of the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm asking you precisely so that you wouldn't be forced to be punished. I don't want to do that. You're not gonna tell me that. Thank you. The right to replica has Srdjan Nogo. Marko Djurisic: Shame on you! Shame on you! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46267	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Chairman, please, I cannot speak in parallel with my colleague Djurisic to ensure the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46268	Here you go, buddy Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46269	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46270	You must ask your colleagues in the same order to die a little and allow you to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46271	Mr. Marinkovic, we are all colleagues here and you are my colleague and MPs of the ruling majority are colleagues...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46272	We allow you to speak. We don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46273	We're all 250 colleagues, so we should talk accordingly. Who's in power? He's in power of the SNS. I've been here in this assembly ever since I've always called for everyone to answer. Since you are in power, if I have committed a crime, as you impute a threat to the highest state officials, I would have to be called to account. What's the prosecutor doing? I'm calling on the D.A. to call Srdjan Nog and start the procedure. Here, right now, but I also refuse to participate in staged farces and debates on everything except important topics. We're not talking about important issues here at all. It's my right to a replica, and I'm asking you not to interrupt me. We don't talk about important issues and we never call things a real name. What am I supposed to say? That if a million and 200,000 migrants come to Serbia because someone paraphrased Dublin, we should be happy and build a monument? (Serbislav Filipovic: You should be treated, asshole. You're not normal. Go heal yourself. Is that what I'm supposed to say? Is that what I'm supposed to say? How many people in SNS are also afraid to sign Dublin and get us a million and 200,000 people? You all know exactly what I'm talking about. (Alexander Martinovic: What are you talking about? So there were no threats here, there were no violations of the law. There was a clear message here that we can't let anyone sign Dublin... (Alexander Martinovic: Who signed it? )......................................................................................................... to paraphrase Dublin because he works for a foreign service. All I'm saying is, I'm saying off the table, and you tell Martinovic after the tide.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46274	Thank you. Easy, guys, it's full of leaves. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46275	You want me to ask Srjan Nog? Who signed what? Who signed for a million and 200,000 migrants to come to Serbia? Why do you keep scaring the citizens of Serbia? This has become pathology, you do nothing else, except invent the most monstrous lies at the expense of Vukic, Ana Brnabic, the Serbian government's minister. Threaten us with some millions of migrants, threaten us today with this, tomorrow with that. Are you aware, I hope you are a mature, grown man, what you said, that Anna Brnabić should be hanged on the terraces, along with her and Alexander Vukic. Well, what do you want to do, what the Germans did during World War II? Well, that hanging on the terraces was invented by the Germans and I get why you say it. According to the ideology of Ljotic, as you served the Germans in 1941, you would have served a new occupier and you would have the whole Serbian people hang a noose on your neck. To the whole Serbian people to hang a noose on your neck, but I tell you - that time has passed. The time of hanging on the terraces is over, the time of the German occupation has passed, the time of DOS has passed. The time when Nenad Canak threatened to hang on the terraces was over and there will be no more in Serbia. If you think someone is afraid of you, because the American ambassador is visiting the city committees, like he was in Vrsac two days ago, visiting the city board of DS, which is scandalous in itself, it's not happening anywhere in the white world, that the ambassador of a great world power is visiting the city board of the party that de facto no longer exists and is a member of some Alliance for Serbia. And if you think you can hide behind the back of an American ambassador and threaten your political inexperiences and that's why we're afraid, we're not afraid. And for Mr. Djurisic's question, did Alexander Vukic kill Gavrilovic? Did the wolf kill the flea? Did the Wolf kill Batchanin? Well, these are all the murders that occurred at the time of your government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46276	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dmitry Ljotic, we have Ljutics and Ljotics. Dimitrij Ljotic had...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46278	What member of the team?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46279	Article 107. The murder of journalist Pantic, in Jagodina, for privatisation done during the rule of the yellow Martians. Dimitrij Ljotic, with whom these yellow Martians are also, said – we do not need voters, we need fighters. It is the ideology of Dimitri LJotic and it is obvious that Bosko Obradovic and his close associates cherish and nourish that ideology. They don't need voters, they need fighters. They've proven that multiple times. They proved that by attacking the journalist. They proved that by attacking the president of the assembly. They proved that by attacking a member of the RIK, a woman. So, several times they physically harassed and thus nurtured the ideology of Dimitri Ljotic. He says, Bosko Obradovic, like this, only a few months ago -- at the same time I call on the honorary officers of the Serbian Army and the MUP to arrest the president of Serbia. That's what the follower of Dimitri Ljotic says. Today they call for hanging, it's a crime in Article 209. Criminal code. Why won't the D.A. do anything to them? Well, because unfortunately our prosecutor was in the United States, because Scott put them in Parliament. So, because they're meeting Martin Brian, head of the political department. So there's a synchronization between that, maybe even the Masons have a little bit of an effect on that. That's why the D.A. doesn't initiate this procedure, because they're now in an alliance of millionaires. I'm not asking you to vote on this, but Mr. Chairman, take a little care of these extreme groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46280	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46281	I thank the chairman. You have done a violation of Article 103 because I had the right and I have applied to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, immediately after the speech of my colleagues Đurisic, although it may not be as important now, but to enter a hate speech into this home, to accuse someone of imaginary murder, to speak of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic in such a way as they do and re-supply their passions, possibly the influence of the month of October, but I will tell you that here is injured and the dignity of this home, calling for the coup, calling for him to come back from the street again to power. I can understand the nervousness of this SLIP association which is fully aware that elections cannot win power in due time, because it does not deserve it, but I will remind them of the following, which is that they entered this building as the last hooligans, carrying out the coup and desecrating the Republika Srpska Assembly, robbing it, burned it then, because they knew that Vojislav Kostunica had not received 50% plus one vote in the elections. If Slobodan Milosevic was wrong, he was wrong not to defend Serbia's honour and dignity at all costs, insisting that the second election round, which had to be held, would be maintained. This government respects the law, respects the rules of the game, and no one will ever, at any cost, occupy this building. The 5th of October street leading to the Assembly does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46282	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Milimir Vujadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure,. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46283	Thank you, Chairman. Articles 109 to 115. In fact, you know that the function of the MP is performed 24 hours a day, all 365 days a year. I think you and most of the people in this room agree with me. Your options for this matter may be narrowed down, but you should consider trying to apply all the measures provided for in articles 109 to 115 and subtracting the word, warning, and prohibiting any participation in the meetings of the National Assembly of Members of Srdjan Nog. Namely, if you are worthy of the function for which the people have chosen you, you must not be affected by what happened yesterday to the Messenger Nog. I'm sure a team before this finds out that even 1% or 2% of the voters who voted for this movement they belong to don't think, and I'm sure today they're ashamed of what Srdjan Nogo said yesterday. That's the part about your jurisdiction and the jurisdiction of this respected home. The second part I personally insist on is that all the authorities of the MUP, prosecutors and courts in Serbia seriously consider what happened yesterday and send a warning that this is a phenomenon that cannot happen in our society. What happened yesterday is not harmless at all. It is one serious social danger and I think that you, like all of the next chairmans, must think carefully about what I said, and we as a society are pictured over what is happening between us. To the soul, it's fortunate that these people are minority, but such phenomena should be cut in the roots by me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46284	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Nejko Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46285	I thank the chairman. It is certain that the citizens of Serbia and us and all those representing this country are warning by question – when will the destruction stop? The destruction is too much. Here in this home and out of this home. The destruction is growing and this isn't harmless. Calling for the murder of the president and prime minister of the state is nothing more than an invitation to the coup, an invitation to destroy the system, an invitation to destroy the rule of law. Who's going to take responsibility for that? Does this mean that we just declare that someone here said, "Here, I'm here to be tried, or are we really going to launch mechanisms that will determine responsibility in an adequate way?" So we don't have another October 5th, when the new government brought in that click that was afterwards killing – Legion and others. Do we have to let that happen? Marko Djurisic: What member? ) Article 107. But that's what I could say, and in the end... Marko Djurisic: Must be at the beginning. I didn’t have to say at first, I absolutely have no obligation to do so, and anyone who doesn’t know the Rules of Procedure should teach him. What's important is that we know, we know that we have finally identified that the destructive action is trying to do something that no one here will allow, and no one will let the Tempisvar appear, that executions are done on the street, that there is no law but that there is anarchy, we certainly cannot allow that. So I ask that in future anything that appears, especially in this House, implies zero tolerance, both for you as chairman and for each other chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46286	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46287	I'm glad my colleagues from the ruling parties are so thrilled to hear from you. Mr. Marinkovic, I've reported in accordance with Art. 107th and 27th. You are required to lead the meetings of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, there are also obvious parts of the session where the Rules of Procedure do not apply. And I really can't help but feel that all of this isn't pre-directed. All these conflicts are pre-directed. It is indeed a smoke screen for the citizens of Serbia, as it is not necessary to interfere with a few facts. The first fact is that the Democratic Party has just played the most important role in forming the Serbian Progressive Party and that those who protected their mandates, gave them the media, generously funded them. The other thing is, we don't ignore even spilling personnel from one party to another. That was the first thing that went in the direction of the Democratic Party, when the advances came to power, then these famous figures from the Democratic Party, called the biggest thieves, joined the Serbian Progressive Party. Obviously, there's a huge resemblance between those two sides. There are no ideological differences, and I'd say they're neither human nor moral. Both are Satanising political opponents, and this is extremely bad for both the National Assembly and democracy in Serbia and for all its citizens. It's up to you to stop it. But it must be cut in the bud. If you let one offend you from the ruling coalition, then you have to expect an answer. Therefore, cut. There are people here who come and work and talk about what's on the agenda. I'm one of them and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46288	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I agree with you that we should all stick to those rules and procedures and debate in a decent and dignified way in the National Assembly. As for directors and directors, you know I'm no director, I'm in the role of speaker right now. I'm here to stick to procedures and Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Balša Bozovic. Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46289	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I'm advertising Article 27. I would like to tell you that it is absolutely unnecessary that every time a very important law comes into the congregation we talk about everything but that law. We talk about everything, just not the problems citizens face every day. And just on the agenda comes something that interests them and interests them, just on the agenda comes what hurts them, and then we talk about some ten things. So, I would like to ask you to, in some way, give advice, although you don't have to or Mrs. Mihajlovic doesn't have to respect it, she is as the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this room, she came to this House to propose amendments and amendments to the law, and often it happens that she does not answer questions or authorized MPs' clubs under this law and this topic of law, let alone a list of speakers, which is from the authorities, which is from the opposition. I'm fighting here to, of course, get an answer from those who are in power, so they want to ask or ask for clarification, because the citizens want to know something. But also, to criticise opposition MPs, we have no answer and here, the other day we are trying to find out what's going on on in Kopalnik, what's going on in various other parts of Serbia, which is why in the national parks of the wall, and why no one, as an inspection of the republic, gives any answer. So, just for the debate to be, I agree, the topic of the agenda, but to respect this topic of the agenda by respecting the ministry's respect for the MPs and this House and answering the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46290	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. You know well that Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic came here and did not accidentally come with 11 associates, so she came here to answer questions, to be there and to discuss with the MPs, which she showed not only yesterday but also whenever she came to the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46291	Member 107, Mr. Marinkovic. I want to point out a huge hypocrisy, a limitless hypocrisy that comes from the Democratic Party's ranks. You all remember, ladies and gentlemen, how much noise they made about someone being allegedly on some paper standing outside Alexandra Jerkov writing some words. They submitted as a complement to the agenda to get rid of the vice president of the National Assembly, the Belief of Radet, for something she published on Twitter. And it's a great sin. But when Srdjan Nogo, a member of the Alliance for Serbia coalition, publicly calls out, calls out, not by Twitter, to hang on to Tarazim Ana Brnabic and Aleksandar Vukic, then these big Democrats come forward and say, well, don't now, there are more important topics, let's talk about legislation, let's talk about laws. Wait, is human life important to you or does it not matter to you? Do you have the same value system when it comes to political opposition and when it comes to you? It's impossible that only you have family members, impossible that it only hurts when someone touches you. Here, today's NIN says - there is no media freedom in Serbia, everything is under Vucic's control. Here's an APB for the father of Heavenly Stefanovic. That's your NIN today. Every NIN, every "Time", every "Today" comes out with a new BOLO. On one chase is Vučić, on the other is Ana Brnabić, on the third is Nebojsa Stefanović, on the fourth is Zorana Mihajlović, ask God more who, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46293	So, Mr. Marinkovic, I am asking you, as I am speaking to you, I have reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to tell these DS gentlemen that we will not stop talking about their calls for murder, the rape of Ana Brnabic, the murder of Aleksandr Vukic and that with this practice, with such a fascist dictionary in Serbia, it must once be interrupted. A period of fascist occupation has ended in Serbia. Serbia is a free, sovereign and democratic state. Everyone can express their political opinion, but to call for the murder of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, to call for hanging, it must be condemned and with that dictionary must be stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46294	I agree with my colleague Martinovic that neither the National Assembly nor the Republic of Serbia has earned it, nor the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The right to replica now has Marko Djurisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46295	Thank you, Chairman. I asked for a replica when I was called here by the president of the SNS parliamentary group to talk about who was responsible for the murders that took place in 2001, 2002, I don't know which not all year, and then we entered a series of these replicas in a way that fellow MPs also reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I didn't want to participate in this abuse procedure, I waited until I had time to answer that. I must say now, unfortunately, that I do not know who is responsible, as unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia do not know who killed Mr. Gavrilovic and various other murders. I doubt it's the people who unfortunately killed Zoran Djindjic in 2003. But what I'm saying is, the answer is first, and it's good that maybe it's been a while to ask who was when some others were killed in power and to continue with that kind of pointless discussion. But what I'm saying is that on October 5th, no mob, no criminals were here in Belgrade. The citizens of Serbia, who defended the right to vote, the citizens of Serbia who in conditions, impossible conditions of the minority, voted against Slobodan Milosevic, most of them drove him to a political pension on 24 September, and then on October 5th, they had to come here to fight for their right and that's history, and you can't change that. A thousand times, a hundred thousand times they've repeated it, organized various pointless exhibitions, as it was a few days ago here in the Assembly. That's what I'll always react to. No hooligans, no gang was on October 5th, there were hundreds of thousands of citizens, hundreds of thousands of citizens who came to defend their right to free voice, and I believe that citizens will always defend that right, and I call on today's authorities not to tempt them, not to try to see if citizens are ready to defend their vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46296	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46297	Did you hear about what was called the Maki Arsenijević, he publicly boasted that with a Molotov cocktail he came here to the National Assembly and set fire to the building of the National Assembly. Well, you brought him. You're talking about some spontaneous, crowded citizens. Well, they're citizens who were loaded into buses, trucks, boggers, passenger cars, brought here in front of the National Assembly to burn down the National Assembly building, to burn down the RTS building. You 40 were lynched by Dragoljub Milanovic, the director of RTS, and you boast. You're saying some pointless exhibitions. Well, you boasted, yours, those leaders on October 5th, boasted how many artistic paintings they took, how many chairs they took out of here from the National Assembly. After all, what you can't answer after 18 years, if you really won the election, why you set fire to the entire election material of the Federal Election Commission. Well, what a winner in the election turns on the proof of his victory isn't happening anywhere in the world. It happened in Serbia on October 5th 2000. Why? Because you weren't sure whether you won or didn't win. Why don't you say that there was a conflict between Zoran Djindjic and Vojislav Kostunica that Djindjic was in favour of going to the second election round, because he knew that Vojislav Kostunica did not win in the first election round, but Vojislav Kostunica insisted then not go to the second election round, because he knew that in that second election round his victory would be very uncertain. These are facts that Serbian citizens should know. And as for fear of you, no one is afraid of you. I'm just telling you that the state of Serbia is a serious state and that it will no longer allow violent change of government. When you beat us in the elections, when the people in the elections say they want Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Djilas, Shane Petrovic and so on, we will take off our hat and say – great, let them lead us to the future. But until that happens, no more Maki Arsenijević, no more Joe Baggerist, no more burning Parliament, no more burning television, no more hanging on the terraces.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46298	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. George Komlensky, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46299	The Honorable Chairman, you allowed the violation of Article 103 again because you did not give me a word by the Rules of Procedure as soon as I heard from him, and a violation of article 107 was done because the dignity of the National Assembly was not respected, Mr Djurisic tried to spray what is being said here in his speech. No one here has said that Serbian citizens are hooligans, criminals, thieves or anything like that. The citizens of Serbia made one mistake on October 5th, which is that they are going after the hands of hooligans, criminals, bandits and thieves to the National Assembly, on Serbian television, and that is the mistake you are also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I am sure that never again such a group can nor will they succeed in leading them to such stages. Therefore, a very clear distinction in each of the speeches used here. There is also a difference between the citizens of Serbia whose perhaps justified dissatisfaction with the material status in 2000 has abused a handful of criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46300	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Do you want to get the National Assembly in voting day? No, I don't. ) Now in accordance with Article 112, I am setting a three-minute break. My friend Nogo, please don't throw it at me. What does this look like? Shame on you. I don't understand how you came here today after those words yesterday, but now a three-minute break. We'll continue after that with further work. [[After a break.]] We're moving on with the session. My colleagues told Srdjan Nog about the insult of SNS MP Aleksandra Martinovic. He just told him that he's an asshole and I don't want to allow such a speech, such incorrection, especially a hate speech that we can hear from you. And did you hear what he said to me? ) Let's move on, the word has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46302	Thank you, Chairman. We had the opportunity, here all morning to listen to insults, lie to lies, attempt to fool Serbian citizens again like 18 years ago, to serve them on a tray of lies, to plant false information, to frame them with insults at the expense of the president of the state, at the expense of his family, ministers, MPs, all those in Serbia who want to live better and more politely. We have not heard any concrete arguments on the subject of the agenda, on a set of laws we are discussing today and on whom we will discuss the next days in the amendments. Why didn't we hear? Why so much hysteria from session to session. It is very important that the citizens of Serbia know. Because from law to law that comes on the agenda we systematically solve problems in the state of Serbia. We are systematically fighting bad things, and we are providing the citizens of Serbia with conditions for a better life. Why do so many attacks on the laws we're talking about today, the Law of Law? Why is there such a degree of anxiety among members of the congested and federal opposition when it comes to illegal facilities? It's precisely because most of these and such objects, such a way of working, were actually conceived after October 5, 2000. It is then that the kind of sunflowers in Serbia move that anyone can do whatever they want, wherever they want, but anyone who is a member of that ruling majority, the other one does not. Then comes systemic corruption. Then you can't get permission to build anything unless you're in close, extremely close relations with members of the then government. Then, from 2000 to 2012 millions of objects were built in Serbia without any permission. We also talked about pasture this morning, we talked about many examples, obvious examples where something wasn't quite normal at the time, and that's why the attack is starting, here, when we talk about these laws to Minister Mihajlovic. From all weapons, attacks against Minister Mihajlovic, the SNS, Aleksandra Vukic, on the Government of the Republic of Serbia to discredit everything we do, but Serbian citizens see and know that today's building permits are getting faster, that they don't have to come with an envelope to the secretary of state, to the minister, because they're going to throw them out. One who tries to do such a thing will be thrown out, processed and arrested, and something like that could not have happened since 2000. It was desirable to know what the percentage for the permit, to know what the percentage for the roads, the percentage for the residential building, the percentage for the hotel, the coffee shop. He knew the percentage of everything. It all came down to a combination and a percentage. Today it all comes down to knowing exactly what solutions are prescribed by law to get permission and that it could be done and done and built in the interests of Serbian citizens. Why does he attack so many roads? Several roads have been made these years as SNS is in power. The government led by then by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, today Serbia's President Aleksandar Vukic, has made more roads for the time than the previous 30-40 years. Those roads brought new factories to Serbia. Those roads have brought 180,000 new jobs. All these solutions, infrastructures are important for the lives of Serbian citizens, but are not important for tycoons. The only damage from what someone is doing in Serbia today is. The tycoons and members of the former regime suffer, and, of course, because they are aware that however they commit themselves, however they interfere, whatever hangings they threaten, whatever rapes they threaten, whatever senseless, idiotic tweets they write all day long on Twitter and Balshon and the rest of these, Nogo and the rest of them who are going to give their feet out of parliament in the next election, whatever they write and do, Serbian citizens get in the car and go on their roads, see the road, see the tunnels, see the bridges, there are bridges. Do you know how it used to work? When they want to do something, they turn a wall in the hospital and open that wall. They say -- here, the renovation began, and KC in Belgrade never finished, in Nis ruined entirely in Kragujevac nothing, in Novi Sad nothing. Today you have an announcement that over a billion euros will be invested in healthcare alone for the next three years, not a topic today, but only in health care, and that is what Serbian citizens see. You have a gamma knife, then an x knife. All this is the consequence, the positive consequence of the work conducted today by the government of the Republic of Serbia by Ana Brnabic, formerly Aleksandar Vucic, is the positive work of Serbia's President, Aleksandr Vukic and the SNS-led government, which is supported by my fellow MPs today in the Serbian Parliament. That's why I'm calling on them to shut down the business, the threats. They will not frighten us, nor Minister Mihajlovic, nor President Vukic, nor Minister Stefanovic. Here's today's new drug confiscation, weapons. We'll arrest criminals every day. Every day, police in Serbia will arrest whoever dares to sell drugs, whoever dares to bribe, who seeks bribes. They will be arrested and processed every day. We'll never stop doing that, and the roads will continue to build and the factories will open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46303	Thank you. Honored Members of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on with our work. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46304	Thank you, Chairman. During yesterday's debate in principle, I cited some of the reasons why the MP group would have had enough to vote against this set of laws, so let me repeat what I said yesterday and what was crucial. First of all, you must not, by professional work, like the Engineering Chamber, suspend the possibility of issuing licences and thus place it at the level of the administrative authority. Secondly, it is also very important, it is not good to pass laws that will only protect one category of citizens, not all. Such a proposal for a road transport law has actually shown that you do not really understand what it means to introduce order, competition, efficiency and market economy. Third, it is inadmissible for citizens to be deprived of legal protection, to abolish justice and to allow the destruction of objects to take place on the basis of final solutions. No one can play with the property and the lives of the citizens. Such a law on the law of objects should not be passed. Also, I can't help but look back at the minister's response to my presentation yesterday and ask for clarifications. First of all, the Honorable Minister, you mentioned yesterday that the engineering chambers were abolished because the ministry wasn't satisfied with their work, so I have to ask you why it wasn't stated in the reasoning of the bill, but you verbally informed us here at the hearing? Why wasn't the Ministry satisfied? Against how many faces did you initiate a disciplinary and other procedure if someone did something wrong? Secondly, on my remarks yesterday about the Bill of Law on the Law of Objects that there is a great danger both for the public and for the state if the objects collapse on the basis of final, rather than for the rightful solutions, I will remind you that you have said that you have estimated that there is greater damage to the state than illegal objects, but that some object is destroyed, so that the state will compensate for the damage. Explain to us, since none of this is stated in the reasoning of the bill, how did you assess what was more damaging and why did you not contribute to the study you conducted when assessing the effects of such a solution? Please be kind and state the name and last name of the person who came up with something like this, because I think it takes the citizens of Serbia to know who this person who thinks he has the right to tear down their houses without speaking to the court for protection. Also, since you did not state in the bill how you will measure the success of this law, I have to ask you how many objects do you expect to be legalized in the first, how many in the second year, etc.? I suppose you have a plan, don't you? Are you allowed to take responsibility for yourself if the results of the first year are not achieved? That would be of great interest to our citizens. On my point that the law allows the mutilation of illegal objects built in the protection zone of public buildings, you acted as if it were the most normal thing in the world. Since the Law on the Law of Law of Objects has many more shortcomings, I'm going to list just some of them, which I didn't yesterday. One, the criminal responsibility of civil inspectors has been lifted, opening the door to corruption. Second, temporary connections to electricity, water, and sewerage are lifted, which is why many families can suffer unimaginable damage, especially those families with children, old and sick. Thirdly, the way in which a useful area is identified is not in line with the Law on Taxation of Citizens' Property, which can lead to problems in practice. Thirdly, regarding the Law on the Transport of Passengers, to my conclusion that you should have included all relevant factors in the drafting of the Bill of Law, i.e. representatives of the IT sector because it is in the best interest of citizens to have as high quality transport as possible, the cheaper the service, you replied that the representatives of the IT sector were allowed to take part in the development of this proposal, so please answer this. If this is true and if this bill is good, then why did the eight largest IT organisations in Serbia turn to the MPs and invite us to vote against the adoption of this law and specifically note that despite the open aid offered, they did not formally participate in the formulation of this bill. I would like to thank you in advance for your answers. Please answer me who's not telling the truth here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46305	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in its preamble, says: " Starting from the fact that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that from such a position the provinces of Kosovo and Metohija follow constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in all internal and foreign political relations, Serbian citizens bring the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. “ This is certainly the most important part of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Zorana Mihajlovic, who today is elected on behalf of the government in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has been elected four times as a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia and as vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has been elected every time the election took its oath. The text of the oath reads: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and, with my honor, I pledge to respect the Constitution and the law, that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government with security, responsibility and commitment and be committed to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia. “ The fact that the importance of Kosovo and Metohija is highlighted in the preamble and in the oath of each minister, in an oath by the President of the Republic, says that by adopting the Constitution, Serbian citizens have found that there is absolutely no more important task than preserving Kosovo and Metohija and preserving the territorial sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. They swear an oath, a man truly advocates all that is most holy to man, honor, cheek, his word, and his conscience. The oath of honorable men respects more than any law, for he who treads a sworn oath spits on his word and on his cheek and loses honor. There is a history of a whole series of Serbian giants who celebrates history precisely because even their life was less valuable than the opportunity to break their oath, to trample their word, to trample honor. There are many people's proverbs that talk about it. One of them says: "Man keeps his word and his horns." We were all witnesses two days ago that when signing some contract in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the US ambassador, Scott, in the worst possible way, insulted and humiliated not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but all its citizens by saying that Kosovo and Metohija are not so-called, that the government is not so-called. but that it is for them a sovereign state. Representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia Zorana Mihajlovic kept her mouth shut as she was watered. She kept silent even though she had pledged to defend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that she would do everything to preserve it at any time, at every opportunity, both internally and internationally. Some criticism followed, the minister kept her mouth shut. A day later, however, she issued a statement saying: "I did not immediately respond to this inappropriate statement by the US ambassador because it was given at an event where we and the US company negotiated construction for Serbia an extremely important highway, a highway that would bring new jobs for more than 20,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. "It is of course an obvious lie, but what is more important, says the minister and vice-president of the Republic of Serbia, did not react because of an extremely important highway worth 800m euros. And that it was worth eight billion euros and 80 billion euros and 800 billion euros, Kosovo is more important. He who has the honour, who has the cheek, who knows what the word means, has nothing more important to him than the word. She was required by the minister and vice president, Mihajlovic, to react immediately. He says: “I didn’t react immediately, so I responded later, the next day. “ We had an almost similar situation for the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, not to mention Resolution 1244 in a speech before the Security Council, or UN, and says: “It is not true that I did not mention it, but the previous day. “ So some Kosovo and Metohija defend the day before, some defend yesterday, some defend tomorrow, and no one defends when needed. If Zorna Mihajlović had said – I couldn't figure it out, if she had said – I was afraid, if she had said – I didn't know what to say, if she had said anything else, it might have been an excuse, but I said, "I didn't say anything about the contract that I signed," that means she knowingly did it, that she was consciously embarrassed, that she had knowingly embarrassed both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens. What is more sacred than Kosovo and Metohija and how will Kosovo and Metohija defend those who choose the moment and say, we talked about the contract. What contract? Shame on you. You, Mrs. Mihajlović... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46307	A colleague of Sarovic's... (I Nemanja Sarovic: I am ashamed that you are the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija... You can hear yourself, but I've turned off your microphone. I just wanted to ask you to adjust your language to this debate we have. I've already mentioned it to all the MPs, there's no point in treating the vice president like that. Please treat yourself with respect. Go ahead, move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46308	Mr. Marinkovic, I stand behind every word I say. As you can see, I chose them carefully. I have not offended anyone, I have made my point, my judgment, my political position that what Zorana Mihajlovic did is a disgrace. Others did, even from your ruling coalition, but that's the problem. You know, the President of the Republic says: "Uh, what I wasn't. “ Brnabiæka says: “Vulin, who criticises Zorana, is right. “ Why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia not make a decision to declare Scott a person of non grata, to banish him from the Republic of Serbia? Did you do it? Well, to see someone really standing behind their words. You're not standing. And those who criticized her did it to get political points on the internal plan, on the political scene of Serbia, where they are represented as protectors of state interests, and in front of the old ambassadors they tremble. It's not even a level for the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic. Well, in no state, the Prime Minister or the Republic is the level of ambassadors. He should never meet with anyone above the level of assistant foreign minister. It's a level in diplomacy, for those who know something about diplomacy. You obviously don't know. Has the official press release been sent? Well, of course not. You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you Why don't you banish Scott? That's the man who's the rest of Clinton's administration. Yesterday, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mihajlovic spoke of bombs falling. And it is, and Scott is a representative of that policy, of fascist policies, of those who committed crime against crimes, of the crime against peace, who bombed the Republic of Serbia, of the sovereign state, of the UN Charter, without the declaration of war, that killed its citizens for days, weeks and months. Why don't you banish that man? Can worse come? He can't, and he can't come, so you showed that attitude. You have shown that you are serious, you have shown that you are determined to defend the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Now, after this, after such a scandal, how can Zorana Mihajlovic defend and represent any law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? In order for someone to do that, they must have moral credibility, have honor and have cheeks. It can't be the person who's taking the oath. Come on, say, where is it justified to break the word and break the oath? Are those the moral standards you're propagating? Is that what you want to impose on the Serbian people? As far as the SRS is concerned, and I repeat, it is a shame for every citizen who is Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. Shame on you, Zorana Mihajlović! Resign if you have a little honor and morality, and a little. You didn't even blink, you didn't even try to protect what is most sacred to the citizens of Serbia, what is in line with your oath and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is the most sacred, which is KIM, the Serbian KIM. Shame on you! Resign!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46309	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46310	Mr. Sarovic, you're going to insult me and say all the things you say, it won't throw up, or it won't lead to you having greater confidence in the citizens, to cross the census, for nothing. So you can do as much as you want, but it's going a little harder. I don't want to talk about whether you have your own education or not. So, what you told me, you can tell the members of your family, but, please, not to me. I don't think it's right. We are in the Parliament of Serbia. This is indeed a special building and a special respect for this institution. The second thing is, yesterday with your party president, I spent more than an hour discussing the event, first of all, of an agreement on the construction of an important highway. I'm sorry you weren't there, that you weren't listening, so I don't want to tell you again, because I'm not sure you'd understand that at all. Furthermore, I also think that, and I will be very brief, therefore, I would hate for you to ever defend us and I would never, or ever, like to have the defences of Kosovo radically. I believe that the president of our country will have the right programme and that we will certainly talk about the future, not the past. As far as honor is concerned, if only I could say, as far as honor is concerned, it is truly beneath the honor to discuss honor with you radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46311	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46312	I answered... (The People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are earning. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46313	Please, colleague Martinovic, in accordance with Article 112, I am setting a three-minute break. It's impossible to continue the session. (National Ambassador Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws. I can't continue in these conditions session, I have to set a break. This doesn't make sense. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Thieves, traitors... I call upon all the messengers and messengers to die and not to insult one another. Break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. My colleague Jovanovic, I must warn you of these insults. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic next, then Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia, not for Nemanje Sarovic. He knows Nemanja Sarovic the truth about the US ambassador's statement. The statement was also condemned by the president of the Republic and the defence minister, after all, by both Prime Minister and Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic as a resolute minister. I just want to remind the citizens of Serbia that this government, which Nemanja Sarovic accuses of being traitorous, that we are scum, that we are bastards, etc., that this government is in impossible conditions, in very difficult conditions, economic and foreign policy, for the last three years at KIM, we have built two schools, one kindergarten, one university, one university, one hospital, one hospital, one home of health, that we have renovated 16 schools, seven kindergartens, one college, 20 hospitals, one hospital, that we have fully equipped with all the necessary material and information resources of 75 schools, 17 schools, two colleges. But what is much more important than these figures, I understand, Nemanja Sarovic will preserve KIM in Serbia, not Aleksandar Vukic. So, Nemanja Sarovic is the one who defends KIM, and Aleksandar Vukic betrays him, Aleksandar Vukic, who has the courage to go among the Serb people to KIM, to tell him heavy and painful things and, ultimately, to the same Serbian people who have shown great confidence in all the elections held in KIM since 2012. That's what Serbian citizens should know. And, don't defend KIM, please, just let me finish, so don't defend Kim from Old Town or Vračar, but by going to KIM, by helping those people who live on KIM by talking to these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46316	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46317	Mr. Marinkovic, I'm reporting in accordance with Art. 27th and 107th. First, as for Aleksandar Martinovic, he should not have replicated me, but Minister Mihajlovic and Deputy Prime Minister. She's the one who said-- don't God let the radicals defend KIM. I remind you that the large number and most, practically, of these people who are now sitting in the SNS, especially those in the prominent positions, were in the SRS. Aleksandar Vukic was a war minister of propaganda in the government of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the bombing. Therefore, take care of it. You know, you're here in some internal conflict when you say that. Another thing, Mr Marinkovic, is what is much more serious, which is how you allowed Zorana Mihajlovic to address the National Assembly and individual MPs, to mention families, that she was saying, if anyone understood anything and if anyone was there. It's a scandal. If he doesn't understand or understand anything here, it's Zorana Mihajlovic. If she understood, she would know the rules of fine conduct in the National Assembly, in which way she respectfully spoke to the MPs, and she would be less than a soft grain when she came here, not when Ambassador Scott lined her up. So the minister can't go on critics, principled criticisms, reasoned criticisms, facts presented by the MP, to talk about how big he is. It is measured in the elections, in the elections, it is not there, nor is there anyone who has ever come out with his name and last name in the elections, so let's see what her rating is in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, do not let, unless you want a more serious incident, that the minister, any one, offends the MPs, mentions their family and demeans them. That's inadmissible. (President: Thank you. ) You have the measures at your disposal. You gave the measure to Natasa Jovanovic, who did nothing to offend anyone, and you were obliged to give the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic the most difficult measure, away from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46318	Thank you. Apparently, colleague Sarovic, you didn't hear what happened during the period when the break was set. (Nemnja Sarovic: I heard Zorana Mihajlovic insult her. () In any case, do you want the National Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Nemnja Sarovic: You did not give an explanation, for God's sake, you must give an explanation. What does it mean? I brought the facts out. Punish Zorana Mihajlovic for insulting the Messenger. () Just tell me, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Nemnja Sarovic: You are required by the Rules of Procedure to give an explanation, to say it is no insult, or it is an insult. It's not an insult, of course. Of course, I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Nemanja Sarovic: No offense when they say... Would you like us to treat the ministers like that? I want to make a statement. I don't want to go further with you. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Before Martinovic, I answered. You just said Nemanja Sarovic, then Verica Radeta. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46319	Article 107, Mr. Marinkovic. As chairman of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to say that no one here should be offended, but I just want to remind you, Mr Marinkovic, that yesterday and today Minister Zorana Mihajlovic was exposed to very serious insults, at times they spoke to her with those, which is extremely rude, and today we are listening to the most difficult insults at her expense, that the traitor, that the thief, that he is a thief, is being thrown from her place, etc. Nemanja Sarovic: Who said that? ) What certain MPs do not seem to understand and use some wedding terminology and terminology from fame, so they say – the minister is a guest in the National Assembly, this is not a celebration, this is not a wedding and this is not a birthday. This is a session of the National Assembly, where both the people and the MPs and ministers take part, and the minister is not a guest in the National Assembly. The minister is a participant in the debate and has the right to state the political position of the government of the Republic of Serbia and on the draft laws representing the National Assembly, as well as on all current political issues in the Republic of Serbia. So there are no hosts or guests here. There are participants here in the debate. Participants in the debate are MPs and ministers. I also call on MPs and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, to address each other in the chosen words and to exchange in a civilized and cultural way the arguments, if you will both about KIM and the draft laws that are in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46320	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word is the Verse of Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46321	It is true that there are no guests and hosts in the National Assembly in this sense in Svadbar, but it is also true that article 116 obliges everyone to behave in the same way, that they must respect the Rules of Procedure, so it must be respected by Zorana Mihajlovic. It is very interesting here that whenever Zorana Mihajlovic sits in the National Assembly then, as her guardian, Marinkovic runs sessions, 90% of the time and never gets to talk, which someone, God forbid, would resent Zorana Mihajlovic. All that Martinovic just said was also said to Minister Goran Trivan the other day and the minister before that, and it didn't bother anyone, but I think you'll all be sorry soon. It seems you haven't read and heard today's statement by Alexander Vukic, but good about that after these days. So Zorana Mihajlovic allowed herself to insult the People's MPs and has no right to do so. Negaja Sarovic told her – shame on you. The sentence “ Shame on you, ” even“ shame on you, ” from your ranks, gentlemen of power, sent here we hear at least seven times a day every day. We don't mind, we never react. It's perfectly normal. If we think someone did something embarrassing, what else would you say to him than to be ashamed of him? You have completely tried to replace the thesis, to turn the essence of what is really the essence of the conversion of Zorana Mihajlović and her comment – God forbid you do the KIM dams. Mrs. Mihajlović, radicals defended KIM, Vojislav Seselj and Aleksandar Vukic shoulder by shoulder. Not with the gun down, but the way politicians did it. We pray to God that in Alexander Vukic, this radicalism is fully awakened and that he defends KIM again in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46322	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You know well that this kind of address, especially the lady in the National Assembly, whoever it is, whether it's the People's Parliament, the Deputy Prime Minister or anyone else, is really too much for me. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. The word is Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46323	Mr. Marinkovic, I am speaking in accordance with Art. 27, 108 and 103. We had previously heard some speeches by Aleksandra Martinovic and he, in some way, tried to justify the scandalous behaviour of Zorana Mihajlovic and the insults she sent to the MPs, said that she was allegedly insulted and specifically said that I was talking about it, about thieving, about other things, and he took advantage of many expressions that I did not. I didn't insult anyone. I've been saying, as you've heard, a lot of things. I knew what I was saying and I stand by every word I said. I said I was ashamed that Zorana Mihajlovic was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, that she should be ashamed of how she acted and should resign. Is there something going on here? It's nothing. This is the National Assembly and I have the right to do so. Zorana Mihajlovic has no right to mention my family, no right to insult me, no right to argument... I read the Constitution, read the oath she took at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the text of the oath she broke and said what it meant. What are the consequences of breaking the oath? A man swears by honor. With honor, Zorana Mihajlovic swore, broke her oath. Is there any honor after that? There isn't. He swears honor, cheek, gives word, and tramples it. There is no moral credibility to be in the National Assembly, not even a guest, and that is the essence. I insist that you punish her for her insults and scandalous behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46324	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I didn't definitely hear that Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic mentioned your family. You know I always, always appeal to the MPs, I think it's really unauthorized stuff and it shouldn't happen in the National Assembly, but I absolutely didn't hear it, and I'm sure she didn't do it. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Zorana MIHAJLOVIĆ: Just because of the citizens, then it should also be said that in the meantime, words came from your benches, directly – stupid, wacko, shovel, bastard, run there, shut up, etc. That's all your colleague said to me. Just for the record, since you have a microphone to say it, not what's the problem. So, when radicals choose the government, when you have more than 2% of what you had in 2014, you will choose other ministers. Until then, I suggest we talk about the law, Mr. Martinovic, I've chosen my words. According to the Rules of Procedure Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46326	Mr. Marinkovic, I'm advertising a violation of article 108. You just gave the warning sentence to Natasa Jovanovic. No one here in this room has heard the reason for saying such a thing. Nobody. Tossing out of place, here you hear every day as much as you want to throw away. (Alexander Markovic: You throw the most. Markovic's getting his membership refunded, and then you can throw it to me. Do it and you'll throw it away. Parliamentarians earn each other daily, but there are rare situations when the minister throws MPs. In a break, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic throws MPs, insults them, Natasu Jovanovic insults them. That was in the break. Whether you register it or not, it's a matter of your right and your relationship to the work of the Assembly, but we don't mind. Natasa Jovanovic corresponds adequately to Zorana Mihajlovic, not in this way as Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic invents, she tends to, but rather warns that she is a representative of the government and that she must respect the MPs. And, of all things, say Natasha Jovanovic a reminder. What's with the arches? What are those criteria? What do you ask us to do by respecting the Rules of Procedure, or by correcting you every day or at all times? It doesn't come to mind. We have come here to discuss, we are having a debate on the draft of these laws, which are disastrous, and the ruling coalition has no argument and what here in front of the cameras shows concern for Zorana Mihajlovic, to see what they say to her and to hear what they say to her in the hallway, worse than Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46327	Thank you, Comrade Mircic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you know very well how much I treat the MPs of the SRS, but I was forced to give a warning. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Yes) According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (The Faith of Radeta: Who answered first?) We have to take care of it. One injury to the opposition's representative, one representative of the majority. What's the matter with you? I should have gotten my word first. You'll get your turn. Take it easy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marinkovic, I'm reporting for article 27, and I have a constructive proposal. So, I suggest you withdraw the note by Natasa Jovanovic, so I suggest you withdraw the warning, to end this painful situation in the National Assembly, which is extremely inappropriate. As for Zorana Mihajlovic, who seems to be the favorite subject of individual parliamentary groups, I would like to say the following. As president of the parliamentary group, I will defend Zorana Mihajlovic, not because of Zorana Mihajlovic, but because of the fact that she is a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who received support from the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic and while a SNS minister is sitting in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, he is the minister of my party, SNS and Alexander Vukic for me. SNS MPs will defend every minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, as long as he is a minister, whether someone likes it or not. I see you're very funny... (Milorad Mircic: Like a working battalion on the Kadinacha.) It is, like a working battalion on the Kadinacha, etc. I see you know history well, Mr. Mircic. I made a constructive proposal. So it's easy for them to behave the way they behave. They're not responsible for running this country. The Serbian Progressive Party is responsible for the country's leadership, bearing responsibility for Parliament's dignity as well. So I repeat once again, in order to calm down the passions, so that the National Assembly in the right sense of that word could function, please withdraw the warning of Natasha Jovanovic, to move on to the points of the agenda, to move forward on the list, to stop destroying the dignity of the National Assembly. As the most powerful party in this country, as the most trusted party in Serbia, I have an obligation to present this proposal to you because I know how difficult the situation in Serbia is. It's easy to be against your country, it's much harder to be for your country and defend it in difficult times.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46329	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. I believe that the role of the chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to just encourage dialogue and when the situation and the debate are soaring to influence this tension. For this reason, I think it is in the interest of Parliament, of all the MPs, of all of us here, in the interest of our state, not to continue the fight, to continue with one normal work, a normal debate, I respect the arguments and the SRS and, of course, the arguments of the majority. I'm here to judge as the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure say. I agree with you, I am publicly withdrawing the warning given by Natasa Jovanovic, not because of Natasha Jovanovic, not because of the SRS, but because of the peace in the National Assembly and the continuation of our dialogue. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and now, in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46330	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46331	The esteemed chairman, the prominent Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I've been selected from the SNS list. I will, as I have so far, talk about concrete things about a set of these laws. As for the bill of law, in that part, from where I come from, it's done most of the time, I've visited all the property, all the buildings, all the buildings in Srlig, and it's done in the surrounding municipalities, and I think we're going to have an opportunity under this law right now, and I'm potentialting this precisely because a large number of objects in rural areas, there's no way to do everything by law, because it's property that's run on great-great-great-great-grandmothers and blankets, and that's why these people have legal problems. We expect all of us together to find the opportunity to provide adequate resources to make it easier for these people to sharpen their facilities. Something very important in the Law on Planning and Construction, for me it is the same big thing that for the first time given the opportunity to facilitate our agricultural producers, the people who work, who build on their properties, on agricultural land, build their economic facilities for the stables, for all they need, there is now the possibility of making it easier for these people and they will have the opportunity to do it easier. I would now talk about the law on accident research, about rail traffic, water traffic and air traffic, by putting an apostrophe and an accent on rail traffic. In the previous law, where I was talking about railways, I was talking about a railroad going from Nis, Svreljig, through Književec, Zaječar, towards Negotin and Prah, and the other arm going towards Bor and Majdanpek, where in the work of these tracks, based on all those research done last year, we have a lot of accidents, precisely because that railway is in very bad shape, which is the railway, which is said to be very unstable, where this train was planned in one section of the railway from Knjižvac to Zaječar, 95 kilometers an hour then, now there is going 50 kilometers an hour, while from Nis over Svrljjig, according to Književci, that railway was intended to be 65 kilometers, and now there is 10, 20, 20, 30 kilometers. That's exactly the part of the railroad where there were a lot of those accidents, the jumpouts of the wagons. In particular, in November 2017, six wagons slipped into Negotin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46332	You're bringing the end of fellow Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46333	In May 2018, in the section of the railway from Književec towards Svrlig, a tanker car slipped off, on the same May of the month, a tanker car slipped off, in September of the same year, a tanker, the same thing in Materac, so that's all the situations we have to work on to reconstruct the rail as soon as possible. I hope we can reconstruct that railroad, fix that railroad, and I'm sure you'll be like...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46334	I thank my colleague Miletic. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. He's not here. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46335	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is a country in which work is being done and built, every day, sometimes day and night. That Serbia is working and building, Serbian citizens see each step, not only in Belgrade, which is the largest construction site currently in Serbia, but also in all other places. The development of the construction industry, above all, is of great importance to the overall economic development of each country, and thus the development of the construction industry also has a great importance for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. The construction industry and the development of the construction industry is one of the basic conditions of employment of workers and thanks to the arrival of SNS and the takeover of SNS authorities, thanks to the development of the construction industry, the number of unemployment decreased dramatically from 26% in 2012, down to 12% in the last quarter of this year. Also, I must point out that the development of the construction industry also entails the development of many other services, such as trade, tourism, etc. The development of road infrastructure, both rail and road infrastructure, and that it has great importance for the economic development of our country, for attracting foreign investment, but also for the better life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to point out that in a systematic new way and for the first time, it is arranged, proposed by the Construction Products Act, the construction product market and that is of course for every praise. Apart from road corridors, Corridor 10, Corridor 11, aside from major investment in development, that is, rebuilding railway infrastructure, I must stress the great effort of this government and the particular ministry of construction, on development and on water industry-related projects. First of all, for the reasons that two laws are on the agenda today relating to the registration of vessels and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation, which, apart from compliance with the European Convention, is particularly about the work of the seafarers that our country has ratified, and how it regulates both the way of recycling and ship recycling in accordance with European standards. What I want to point out, and as far as the ministries and the entire government are concerned, is the construction of a terminal on Luka Smederevo, because, thanks to the president, and then to Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, the president of the then state, Mr Nikolic, a strategic partnership was established, and Željzar Smederevo, unlike those who wanted to destroy it, employs five and a half thousand workers today and, of course, this terminal will also spread the burden, which will be able to receive five million tons of scattered cargo, and how significant to Luka Smederevo, for the very town of Smederevo, also for the second-hand journey of the Danube, because the Danube is on the entire length of our territory, which is 588km of sailing. Also, about Smederevo, for the development of the economy, for the development of river shipping and how significant is railways, which is five and a half kilometers of new railways, which will lead from Male Krsna-Smederevo to Luke Smederevo, i.e. to the cargo terminal. It's going to be a one-wheel rail that's supposed to be finished by the end of this year and, of course, it's going to be electrified. Also, in order to protect life and human health and to protect the environment, I must also commend the projects that are related to the extraction of sinking ships, warships from World War II. It is 23 German warships, located near Luke Prahovo. I also have to commend all activities of the ministry and government, which are related to the reconstruction, reconstruction and modernisation of port captainies, which are 12 in Serbia. First of all, the port captains Smederevo and the port captains of Kladovo, and by the end of the year, the port captains of Prahovo will be reconstructed and restored. All that the government takes over, all that concerns construction, traffic and infrastructure is aimed at the progress and development of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS in the voting day will support all proposed laws. Thank you. All that the government takes over, all that concerns construction, traffic, infrastructure, is aimed at the progress and development of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Progressive Party in the voting day will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46336	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Firenjan Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46337	At the beginning of my address, I would particularly like to stress that in areas dealing with the ministry, Mrs. Mihajlovic may have been the most investment and investment in previous years. I think it's a really good definition of this and the previous government, that through major infrastructure projects it has led to a very positive impact on our country's development. Developed infrastructure has led to the fact that we have many investors today, new jobs are opening up, and even those parts of our country that were previously neglected have set out to develop. And this announcement of the construction of the Moravia Corridor speaks in favour of it. This corridor will bring excellent results, given that around 500,000 inhabitants live in the area, that we have 21,000 business entities and well-known places of religious and Banjian tourism. Also many traffic measurements, which I had the opportunity to analyse in 2009, when I was a student, showed that in a triangle between Belgrade, Cačka and Kragujevac, the biggest traffic burden in our country. When it comes to the proposals for the laws that are before us today, in particular the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Passengers, it is good that this proposal regulates taxi transport in a unique way. So far, we have had one situation that every local self-government has prescribed very different conditions for driving and driving and that there have been problems and situations where even those who had prescribed tables performed this job illegally. Also, the proposed changes to car rental services with a driver, i.e. "Limo service" has been recognized, given that it has been incorrectly defined by the Tourism Act so far. What might be mine and the question, is this part that refers to the characteristics of the vehicle, where the five-year-old limit is indicated. I hope that all those who now want to do this job legally, because the law finally recognizes them, will be able to rebuild their fleet if it does not meet this condition. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport of Goods Act, it is clear that in international frameworks this area is often changing and that Serbia is monitoring these changes. The law will certainly have a positive impact on those companies dealing with this activity, employees, because their rights and obligations are clearly defined. It is also evident that the law requires additional means to implement it, but, as far as it may be, it is certainly justified, because it is the safety of our citizens, the safety of those who carry out this transport and environmental protection. I think we have good legal solutions to support. It is necessary to continue the monitoring and analysis of the effects of traffic laws on the ground and, as soon as some derogations are observed, to respond, to adopt new laws, so as to have as effective and safer transport of goods and passengers as possible. Traffic is a living area and is rapidly changing in the world and in our country and I hope that we too will be able to accompany these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46338	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, colleague Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46339	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, today's presentation in the principle debate will begin with several truths, and what we have done these days since we started this session and the topic, is precisely true. The truth spoken by Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, as told by the prime minister, the ministry and just the MPs of the assembly majority, is the truth that Serbian citizens recognise, and are therefore declared in the elections and statements. There are no two truths. The truth is only one and all attempts by the rest of the yellow company, the Alliance for Serbia or rather the Alliance against Serbia, as things are now standing, because at this point in the Assembly there is not a single representative of the rest of the yellow company, and the citizens know, I don't know if they can see, at this point we have 12 representatives of the ministry and a vice-president of the government, who is there to answer all questions and to help us also MPs to make amendments and improve this law. The truth is, since we have eight years of waiting to issue a building permit, we have come to the conclusion that construction permits are issued in just a few days. When Minister Mihajlovic announced this in passing the law, all of them denied it from the opposition, but we knew very well that such a thing would be possible and that it was really possible in reality. When we have information that from 2015 to today 166,000 solutions have been issued for the legalisation of objects and that only 150 000 have been issued for all years by 2015, then the laws passed by this ministry and proposed and adopted by this assembly majority produce results. All those who switch to change and change the laws relating to the building, the message is very simple – this government, this ministry and, of course, President Aleksandar Vukic recognizes problems and, if necessary, we will change it again in a month or three months, if it is in the interests of citizens and in the interests of the state. There is no law that will not be adapted if we raise the scale more, and the scale rises daily to more and better for the citizens of Serbia. The fact that we have income increased by 75% is precisely that this ministry, as well as the Government and President Vukic, was entitled to decide who and how to manage air traffic. The 75% income has increased and these are the truths that the opposition simply cannot deny. When someone tells them the truth, then they threaten, and right now they threaten everyone who doesn't think the same way they do. The Mayor of Sapca, who belongs to that group of them, that stew, in fact, they're not even a stew anymore, they're so one who jumped left and right and middle, they don't even know what they're thinking anymore, they're ashamed of each other and, of course, they don't trust each other. They can continue in the alliance, lie to each other, but citizens will not allow to lie to them and as a result, in the next elections, and so little support they have, will surely lose. But the threat that all the councilors and MPs who speak the truth will be sued is a threat that will not scare the councilors or MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, but will only give us the strength to insist even more on the truth, and I repeat, as I said at the beginning – the truth is only one. The threat that someone will insist that someone rapes the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and that someone who declares it and who wishes and publishes it on his site is just a member of their governing body of the alliance, just talks about the alliance. When they talk about negative reality, nobody's guilty, so it's not us, so who is it? Serbian citizens know very well who it is that is threatening. Mayor Zelenovic is threatening to sue the media who are presenting the truth that the SNS is telling, that they will sue all those who speak contrary to him. Well, let her sue 53% of Serbia who knows and knows why she supported Alexander Vukic and the policy conducted by Aleksandar Vukic and this government and, of course, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The arrest that Mayor Zelenovic is afraid of and he himself announces the arrest, of course for a reason, because he and Dusan Petrovic both know what they were doing and indeed only with Zelenovic agree that there is a legitimate fear that he will be arrested. It is not a questionable name and last name and not an arrest announced only to Nebojsa Zelenovic but to all those who have dared to put their hand in the pocket of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All those who haven't done it are not in any trouble. They don't have to worry and they don't really care. And because Zelenovic repeats that he will be arrested, I probably repeat, that he knows very well what he was doing at the time. The beatings they threatened and threatened among other things came into action. At their gatherings, people appear in phantoms, in alliances, or in my opinion the alliance against Serbia, the phantoms know who is wearing them and why they are wearing them. And, the message they send with these phantoms produced fruit, so a while ago, the SNS activists in Sapac were just on the cover of the night, the people under the phantoms, turned on and threatened a woman with underage children, that if they did not stop fighting Nebojsa Zelenovic and their thief's alliance, that they would not be well, and that is simply the truth that exists and that is present on the political scene. It is thanks to this alliance of yours, and the latest invitation to the murder of the prime minister and the Prime Minister of the government is the information that speaks enough of someone who has said so, and says enough that he is also a member of that alliance against Serbia. You can defend yourself all you want, but in that defense you cannot lie to Serbia again and again. No one is a member of that alliance, everyone is a member of that alliance, and you all support the threats, blackmail and threat of death to the President of the Republic. Has any alliance stood up since this morning, and you've stood up a dozen times, to condemn that threat. You don't have to. The citizens condemn it, and as a result, we wait for the next election. The percentage you entered here was small, but that small percentage will be high in the next election for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46340	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, fellow Matić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46341	Thank you. Well, we have a lot of laws today. The power is such that it draws attention to me too, all the laws are key, I would pay particular attention to two laws, that is to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Law of Law. I said that this is heavy matter, that it's real estate, that it's property-legal relations, that simply, matter itself is demanding, difficult. I say it challenges the attention of all our citizens. I think it's also courage to get into some proposals that probably aren't nice to many, who didn't follow certain rules, so we're here to support these good proposals and vote, to suggest certain changes and additions in terms of improvement and to me special attention, I'm going to talk through the amendments about the part of the law sitting on the agenda, but I'm going to say about three things today. The first thing is the general regulation plan. I'm not sure that anything has been said about it here, but I think that these changes and additions to the general regulation plan have led to a level of enforceability, to a level that can be based on it to issue a certain act, or enter into the operational part of the building, and I think that's one big shift for all of us, for the entire economy, for the infrastructure, and for all of what practically owns certain immovableities. It's very good, it's very revolutionary, there's probably some exceptions where they won't be able to, but they're just exceptions. So, I absolutely support it, because it speeds up the procedure, simplifies and will make it easier for all of us and enables us to spend better and better quality energy and money for tomorrow forwards. Furthermore, the observation in the cataster, or in the Republic of Geodetic Institute, that while the legal process is being conducted, it will practically not be possible to carry out the traffic of these immovableities under the legal process. And, I mean, it's gone without a lot of attention, but I think there's a lot of people who might go into shopping, selling and everything that means traffic, but until the legal process is over, until we get a final, or executive legal solution, I don't think we should even put it on the market until it's a perfectly clean state. And, I think the team has protected a large number of people who would get into traffic without practically knowing whether that traffic is good or not. Third thing, Engineering chamber, work, licensing, etc. I may also take a little bit of a risk on myself, given that I am from this fela, that simply, if it was shown in practice that a number or a small number of colleagues simply did not match that of their license from the Engineering Chamber, I think that certain adjustments should be made, which this law did and did and if they did not strike on existing rights, or on existing licences, those who have licenses, so they will retain the licences. However, in technical sciences, and in all sciences, especially in technical sciences, simple changes are very fast, etc., cannot only be maintained with such a degree of one engineering knowledge, but this must be done by permanent, everyday work and improvement and work on it, and raise the level of knowledge, which is proven through the laying of licences before certain commissions of the sea. If you don't hit on existing licenses, and they're going to be in some time period, if it's five years, and I think there's been five years to check, I don't think we're losing anything like a profession, but we're just warning ourselves that we're doing our job, we're working on ourselves and we're promoting ourselves. For these reasons, I think these moves are just good for all those who want to practice, and in every country, if engineers have jobs, colleges that teach them, engineers, they enroll enough students, it means that the country is developing well, it's moving forward. For these reasons, all these moves are for the sake of our country's progress. For these reasons, I support these proposed laws, and through the amendments I will report for other proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46342	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46343	I see Minister Zorana Mihajlovic is using the Assembly to show how proud she is, brazen or insolent she is. It would be good if it shows when it comes to Serbia's humiliation. You who throw unarticulately must make sure the truth comes out. What is very important is that at such times as Serbia should defend itself, it acts humbly and humiliatingly with Serbia. What is completely evident here in this bill's proposal is that in the fullness of announcements and the beginning of construction operations in the construction of residential buildings, the Ministry proposes standardisation of construction products. To standardise construction products, or to adapt to European standards, you need complete technology in certain parts of the construction industry to change. In order for the crep that produces, for example, Kikinda, to be according to European standards, you need a complete production line, and you need to be in charge of this credit. And it's so sad, devastated by the former authority of the doss area that was also owned by Zorana Mihajlovic, it's impossible for the manufacturing industry, in this case, to handle such an additional financial blow. As for the legislation of these facilities, we here from Branislav Ivkovic, all the way to Zorana Mihajlovic, from Serbia to earning an estimate by object to those proposals that should be legalized per square metre, but common to all, it was that illegal objects should be destroyed. Well, gentlemen, don't you live in Serbia, don't you see reality? When do foreign investors come to where they make halls? In Vojvodina. Here you are in India, here's your move from Belgrade to Novi Sad in the middle of a real production hall. In the middle of a country owned by an Indian cooperative, they built production halls. Is that in line with sound logic, not with detailed urban plans or general urban plans? Why? Because a foreign investor has its own long-term account. We're talking about the Association, or the Chamber of Engineers and Technicians. Gentlemen, mind your own business, these are the people who have graduated from the faculty of technical expertise. It takes at least nine semesters. Appreciate the nine semesters in those nine people. You would now be robbing Serbia, taking away or giving licenses to these people by yesterday because of the Schumarc, who with Zoran Mihajlovic. Well, take the woodsman away. Put all the foresters away if you have to, and don't do that... After all, as morally speaking best, every member of the government who is truly in charge of the corridors that what happened to him on Corridor 10, for moral initiatives and for reasons, would have offered to resign. Whether the resignation would be accepted by parliament, it is already a second issue, but at least so much honor and congratulations that it has a minister and that it resigns, no, but accuses engineers and technicians of misdesigning. They didn't project wrongly, but they approached something that was a fraud, which is a fraud, which is that the work would be cheaper for those who are close to the authorities to perform the work and then it would be a mess. No one is pleased that this happened on Corridor 10, but in most European countries resigns, resignation is offered. As for other standardisations, we are a century and a half to the EU. You're a little premature with these European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46344	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46345	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, has, indeed, surfaced. Never again has the rule been built in this Serbia, and all thanks to this responsible government and our President, Alexander Vukic. We are witnessing that in the previous three days Serbia hosted the Third Summit of the Minister of Transport of China and 16 Central European countries and the Third Forum of Mayors from those countries. The goal of expanding regional co-operation with China and developing regional infrastructure projects is certainly one of our tasks as leaders in Europe. We support cooperation with China in construction – one belt, one time. However, we also witness that just last month, our Minister Zorana Mihajlovic signed a financial agreement with China, which supports the construction of a 20.4km-long bypass around Belgrade, which will circle the entire area from Batajnica to Bubanj Potok. The value of these investments is 207m euros and this is the first financial contract signed in June. Today, however, it is on the agenda to amend and supplement the Law on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents. The reasons are to improve security in the transport system of the Republic of Serbia through the implementation of a reliable, impartial, transparent and efficient accident and investigative process research organisation. The bill solves problems related to the conduct of the Traffic Safety Research Centre and competent judicial authorities during the investigation. This law lays down the obligations of the competent judicial authorities to provide the file and the documents necessary for the conduct of the investigation to the Centre. The law determines which accident or serious accident the Centre has an obligation to investigate, which has not been the case so far. It is also specified the obligation of the aircraft user to participate in an accident or in a serious accident, to give information on the persons and dangerous goods on the flight to the Centre for insight. Certainly, the reconstruction of our regional railways, in this year we have done almost 280 kilometers, i.e. the infrastructure of the Serbian Railways and in the 2019 plan there are more than 300km, in this way all regional railways in Serbia will be reconstructed, in one way affecting the safety of rail traffic. If we know that the cost for the state of traffic accidents that occur over 300 million dinars a year, this will certainly mean both budget cuts and cost cuts for the state. All these laws we have on the SNS agenda will be supported in the voting day, as I am, by their member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46346	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46347	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, respected minister, respected guests in the Assembly, we have several laws on the agenda today. Of course, the Law on Planning and Construction is most often discussed by previous colleagues and colleagues. I think it's important to start from exactly how many times it's been changed, first of all, when you took responsibility for this area. Often it could be heard – we inherited two million or as many objects from some previous evil government. Of course, the DS couldn't since 2000 for the eight years it was at its highest responsibility in the executive government to build these two million buildings. It's a little different reality. So these two million objects have been built over time and tens of years since the 1970s, and particularly intense since the 1990s, so that this kind of alibi for everything going wrong in some past is something that can't be close to arguments, but are key things about how these laws you're proposing affect people's lives. They influence, above all, the professional community, because we are aware that modern states believe that their values and their strengths are not in square kilometers, territories within square kilometers or in meters of infrastructure, but are located in the values of people, their abilities and their willingness to access innovative solutions and to learn, work on themselves and advance from year to year. What do I start with this? Because the Law on Planning and Construction, above all, aims to solve, in addition to others, what was the result of the destruction and the symbol of the destruction of that wall on Corridor 10, the supporting wall in the Grdelička gorge, where the accused engineers, designers, and where it was necessary to call the media and the Engineering Chamber to withdraw the licenses of sixteen engineers and later on for three professors of construction college. These changes will deprive the Court of Honor of the Engineering Chamber, but I think it is more important that not who will sign off on the withdrawal of license engineers, economists, perhaps their fellow engineer or someone else, but, above all, the relationship to the profession, to an independent professional association such as the Engineering Chamber of Serbia, but also to all other independent professional associations. You are declaring European values and European integration, and it is obvious that here you are showing that by taking away their rights, their competences, in line with good European practice, that my colleagues in the previous speech also spoke about it, is something that shows first of all the attitude towards 28,000 engineers, members of the Chamber, who own about 50,000 licenses. You spoke about 70,000, but the exact number is 50,000. I have some questions for you about this and in one of these meetings in the day for questions, I have also referred one question to you in addition to the question I referred to Minister Djordjevic. I got an answer from him within 15 days and thank him for that, but one of the questions for you was just about that supporting wall or that hair, the repair of the hair in the Gredile ravine. So the key thing was not to listen to the word of the profession, the original projectors, who were not informed and without their knowledge, are the redesigned solutions here how many times, 11 times. Given that the category of the building is Corridor, an object that requires a large licence, the ministry gives permission to do so. You haven't responded to this in seven years, and we heard from Director Corridor that he said they knew about this problem and that they expected it to happen, the decommissioning of that wall and that picture, unfortunately, we all have it in our heads and we're not happy about that picture, and I'll tell you why. In addition to producing additional costs that will cost citizens of Serbia about seven million euros, at least according to those first estimates for the resolution of the problem, it also raises other questions, and I would ask that now, at this plenary session, we get all the answers to the question that I did not get the answer that I had asked you some more than twenty days ago, which is how they were done and are the same methodology for the rescheduling of four additional hairs in the Grdeliska ravine? When we get there that way, we can see that four more cuts are similarly remedied, and I think it's important that we get the answer to that question precisely because of our possible suspicions. To get back to that need to listen to people from the profession, to listen to the designers. Then we saw a quick solution that we received from the president of the state who went around that construction site and a hill that was coming against the road that had been built before, which he said: "We will not bomb the hill, but we will remove it. “ In consultation with some construction engineers who have completed the Low School of Construction, who have devoted 30 years of professional work in the field survey exactly of the Gredile ravine and the composition of the soil, I have received one piece of information that I would like to share with you, which is precisely a question and a distraction that needs to be very carefully removed from that hill, because it is too close to the river Morava and that we need to keep in mind that we do not have to crush that hill in one way, in which we will quickly solve this problem without consultation of the profession and people who can say that the way in which the surrounding towns and towns are being bare, can open up a space for water penetration in the depth and structure of that land and that risk cannot be allowed ourselves, because you can imagine how we would experience the consequences of silk towns and waterways of Morava. So, because of that call, listen to the word profession. Try to understand that these 28,000 engineers, their knowledge and their licenses, their 50,000 licenses are not your opponents, least of all enemies, use their knowledge and try to understand that they are your greatest allies, because if you listen to the word profession, you will be more successful in your ministry, including the entire government and our entire state. This is an invitation and yes, we're up in the defense of the profession, but I think it's important to say what it means besides saving for the budget, except for removing the harmful consequences, except for jeopardizing the safety of all future passengers on that corridor. What does that mean for the safety of the workers doing the work themselves? Since I have now asked this question, I have not received an answer within that 15-day period, I will repeat what I asked the Minister for Labour, Minister Djordjevic, and I have received an answer just thinking about it, because we are buried, unfortunately with terrible news of the frequent deaths of workers, mostly in construction sites across Serbia. My question was that and it was true, since I had no reliable information, that 31 workers have lost their lives in Serbia since the beginning of the year, working on construction sites? The answer I got, unfortunately, is even worse. Thirty workers lost their lives and often worked black with inadequate protection, and you have this in an official response from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This is their correct and quick answer to a very specific question, with the goal that these workers should not represent some mere number of 36. Each of these workers has a name and a last name, has their own life, has their own families, has their own children, and to prevent future cases, it is necessary, I call you once again to listen to the word of the profession, to respect these 28,000 engineers in Serbia and to give them the opportunity to organise construction sites by their profession in the way it is organised in accordance with the Labour Protection Act, that we always have available inspections that will be visited by these sites and that will react when irregularities are observed in these sites in order to protect every single life, not just life but injury, possibly injury at work on those sites. That's what a profession is for, that's what engineers are for, that's what a country that respects knowledge is for. We have consequences, of course, for other solutions that we have, here I will mention to you one of the members that defines, and that is, I think, a Article 51b which you practically declare public interest to what is in your interest, that there is no need for a Lex specialis. Then I don't think this Assembly would have had the need four years ago, 2014 to bring a Lex specialis to you from an important project called Beograd on Water. I'm going to refer to him as an important example, as a symbol in which we shouldn't do it and why I'm opening it up as a question, it's a question of our assessment of what the effects of today's laws are and how we're going to measure those effects, in a year, two or four years. Here, we have four years after the adoption of the law and the lex specialis in the construction of "Beograd on the Water" and we haven't once wondered – what is this intersection of the state? Here are the opportunities, you are the signatories of this contract, you defended this law and the Lex specialis from this Assembly with arguments that the foreign investor would invest three billion euros, that in 2016, two years ago, the building of the highest tower that is the symbol, the future symbol of Belgrade. We're in 2018 now. Just two cases. In partnership with a foreign company, whose founding role is 100 dinars, the founding stake of 100 dinars and which becomes the owner and partner with a percentage of 68%, while the state of Serbia has its 32%. All citizens of Serbia, shareholders in the project have 32% compared to 68% of foreign capital invested 100 dinars of founding capital in the company. It's been four years. The first question, how did we push these buttons, plead for this law? On false pretenses. If we learned logic in classical high school, we need two premises to draw some real conclusions, but we've had bad premises, wrong premises. We've been told, three billion is being invested. Where are those three billion? We are told – will be built by 2016? Where are your buildings built, that tower of no idea how many floors, dozens, 40 floors? So it's a way to convince the majority to vote by bad and wrong and incorrect arguments. I believe that many people wouldn't vote if they knew the outcome of this project and the effects of the adopted Lex specialis, that they knew the effects would be like this today. So that's the same topic we're going to open, probably, after the fourth bill you've changed in four years and we can see that it's never bigger wild construction in Serbia. And for what it's worth, we've mostly talked about a relationship with construction engineers and their expertise here, but let's also mention electric engineers, electrical engineers. Here, today we're talking about something that's the same call for professional respect, and that's why it's important that you respect, organize professional organizations, what is the Engineering Chamber. You probably saw the news. About seven days ago, we had a Minister of Ecology and Environmental Protection here, where you sit. And you heard, and many of us are coming all over Serbia, you heard about the situation of Zavojsko Lake, one accumulation in the Pyrotski County, where the top hydropower plant, which is supposed to work two months a year to supplement the capacity, but because of the obviously insufficient power of the profession, the profession that has been suppressed, the profession that has been humiliated, this hydropower plant releases huge amounts of water to produce electricity and makes huge ecological damage to that part of Serbia. See what condition that life is now in the lake, the Zavojsko lake, which is along the way, and it is important, one of the greatest accumulations of purest drinking water. What about Vlassin Lake? Ten meters lower level, to produce maximum current, but then life is destroyed. Here, you can check it out, see what it looks like. Uvac, look at Uvac. How many meters? A dozen, not to bid in meters, but apparently it's the destruction of the environment that largely destroys the space our people live on, based on this beauty, based on this wealth can develop, not only these economic potentials, but tourism, and that seems to be the case. But with this attitude towards the profession, without integrity, without credibility, with suppressing, removing, we have such projects as "Belgrade on Water", we are experiencing the pumping and oppression of life in these lakes, but what is also a symbol of construction today in Serbia and the application of this law, it is an object on Pancic's summit. We have one of the amendments here to the law that abolishs criminal responsibility for responsible persons in public enterprises for giving connections to objects that are not legally built. And we're all witnesses. The illegal object at the top of Pancic, the symbol, is attached. He's got electricity, he's got water. In what way? Who gave these connections? Under the current law, it's a criminal responsibility. He doesn't have any responsibility. You were talking about the facility being removed, there was no police assistance, and it wasn't done. But there is a criminal responsibility here too, and now with the amendment of this law, that possibility is lifted, rather than a fine for that species at the moment of the crime. These are the effects and consequences of the adoption of the law, and that is why we need one open, honest, right of debate in which engineers will be listened, listening to the MPs, in which, above all, the citizens will be listened, because you have not listened enough to the citizens in the public debate, in presenting this draft of the law, because I think it was very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46348	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46349	Mr. Kiric, a few important things, since you're, I'd say, mistaken in many ways. But let's take it in a row. First of all, the Law of Law. You said someone here was giving themselves an alibi for changing the law. Let me remind you, therefore, two million objects are in your power, and one of the ministers in your governments left to the Serbian Progressive Party when she received the citizens' trust. We got that citizens trust just because we could solve the problems you left us. Therefore, there is no alibi. We've passed the Law of Law, we're changing it because we see that we have to do some more things to prevent all those who want to, to all those arrogant investors who want to build illegally and to simply allow inspections in the local and in cities to solve such problems faster. Our interest certainly was from that moment and today, when the Law of Law was passed, and that's November 2015, our interest was that all that was possible was that as much as possible and mutilated, but those who were building on that November were not able to be mutilated, because it was a criminal act. So, this government, unlike all previous governments, I'm primarily talking about governments in which the SNS, everything that was necessary under all the laws, has indeed been done in connection with illegal construction, so the solutions to destruction, the solutions to law enforcement, if they were laws, then criminal charges, etc. Let me also remind you, in 17 years, from 1997 to 2014 150 thousand solutions were given only to legalization. Since 2014, then, in three years, 180 000 legislation solutions have been given. At the same time, all that was on the republican level, 76 facilities had to be removed in national parks, or destroyed. Since everyone here is asking about the Kopalnik National Park and the facility that is there, there is all the documentation, so everything that has to be done has really been done so far, in terms of the solution to the collapse, criminal charges and all those procedures that are under way. And other institutions, I suppose, will do their job in that sense. But what I don't understand is when you were saying, you know, when you started talking about legislation, about the Law of Planning and Construction, you said one sentence. You say – the amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction are related to resolving issues of wall destruction, i.e. the hair. I mean, really, I didn't even understand the connection. So then I kept listening to the story of the hair, so I kept thinking that you, in fact, cared very much about building infrastructure facilities here. And then I realized, in fact, that it wasn't the subject of your exposure, it was, first of all, the story of the Engineering Chamber. So, you are concerned that the Engineering Chamber will now be under the control of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure, as much as this material base, which was the material base of DS, forestry, etc., will no longer be there, but simply now we will be dealing with, first of all, the issue of licences, withdrawal, first of all by verifying or withdrawing licences for those designers, engineers, who, unwittingly, therefore, are unethically doing their job, because unfortunately, there is that too. So it doesn't mean that if you're a college graduate or an engineer, a science doctor and a professor that you're not wrong, that you're not consciously wrong or that you're not unconscious. That's what's going on. Well, those who do, they can't muddle their whole waist. Also, the main issue is, or the biggest problem, I'm just repeating once again, what this material base is now moving to the Ministry, but by proposing that the engineering membership fees be free, i.e. that there are no memberships that engineers, among other things, pay in the Engineering Chamber, therefore, pay fat, which cannot be affected by the state, and the exams they take and the licenses they receive and the permanent membership fees they pay for. It is supported and benefited by a small group of people in the Engineering Chamber, which practically built a private company from the Engineering Chamber. Those people who really want to work and get educated and move forward with time, when we talk about knowledge, they don't have a chance. That anyone really cares about engineers, not demagogues to talk about and protect themselves behind them, then the Engineering Chamber in the previous 10 and over years, since 2003, when it was founded, needed much more to do to create all those engineers who have licenses to get further education, because once you get a license, doesn't mean you know everything. Once you get a license, it doesn't mean you can design after five, six, ten years and make a mistake, because you've never designed anything new in your life before. When you mention a specific Kosin 2, it was not built by the Government of Alexander Vukic, nor by the Government in which the SNS, nor by an economist, nor by a lawyer, it was built by designers and engineers, these same designers of members of the Engineering Chamber, some of whom, who made such projects that were completely inapplicable. What, are we supposed to keep quiet about something like that? I don't think we should keep our mouths shut. I think we should work it out. This is just one way. Don't worry about Cossina 2, don't worry about any other hair, they're all safe. This highway will be completed and released this year. Not one kilometer, not one meter of highway will be released without being safe, since we take care from the beginning to the end of each project. I have to share with you and remind you of some things, because it seems to me like it's all forgotten or that's the way it is with us. So, south of Corridor 10, which is made of about six lotions. I asked today to give me, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, until 18 October 2018, a percentage of what was done. In 2012, I don't know if you can see it, to go from there, Grub lot 1 – tunnel Predejana 0%, 2013 0.30. Since 2014, 10%, 15, 50, right now 18.10. 93.07% of that lot is done. Lot 2 – Predejane-Caricina Valley tunnel 2012, 2013, 0%. In 2014, six, ten, so we're going on 36, 70, 92% today. Lot 3 – Predejane tunnel, lot 4 – Manajle tunnel, lot 5 – Caricina valley-tunal Manajle, lot 6 – Manajle-Vladicin tunnel Han 2012, 2013, 2014 almost on this last 0%, and from 2014 29, 10, up to today 99, 99, 99,8%. So, don't tell us about how someone doesn't follow and respect the profession, because that's not true, because this is a profession, but also don't cover yourself behind the profession by talking about how someone here doesn't respect the profession, but make some constructive suggestion that this profession is really a profession and that we factor out what's quality from what's unfortunately not quality. Also, about the tower, you asked about Belgrade on the water. I'm glad you asked that. I guess you can see it all because you can't not see Belgrade on the water that's being built. It's a contract I signed in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia. In 20 days, it will begin, say, building a tower, 168 meters high, a total area of 66,754 meters square. In addition to that tower, all other facilities are being built. After all, you saw, you had a chance to see one part that we also opened and what that part of the city looked like. So, people can comment on you from the opposition, whether you like it or not, but the bottom line is that it's one of the biggest infrastructure projects, that it's run because it's a stable budget, because we can deal with it, that we've hired domestic companies that work, that our employees work. When you talk about work injuries, you know, there's a job injury when it comes to it. Unfortunately, no one is looking forward to it and no one loves it and no one wants it. We deeply sympathise with every injury at work, from hurting the hand to, unfortunately, being killed. These are the things that happen. We want to cut them down, we don't want them to be at all. I repeat once again, they happen when they're working. Unfortunately, those years, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 were not working, there was no construction site. To immediately refer to the presidents, you say – President Vukic was at the site. That's wonderful. I'm proud of my president coming to every construction site. You know why the previous presidents couldn't even make it to the construction site? There was no construction site. They couldn't come and take a look at any of the lines that were reconstructed, because zero miles of track was reconstructed, and you know that from Nis, too. They couldn't get to see her, not one part of the highway. They couldn't come because it wasn't there. So let's be constructive and say it is, not that we talk about it all the time, first of all, what's not true, and second of all, we act like we've suddenly forgotten the past. We haven't forgotten her. We know exactly. I know very well what the projects looked like, what it all looked like in 2012, 2013, 2014. That's all I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46350	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We continue work at 3:15 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here's your colleague, Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46352	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, above all, I wanted to pay attention to the previous presentation. It's been a long time, and after all, you and the minister have answered a lot, so I really don't need to spend much time. I'll spend very little. Whenever they don't have arguments, whenever they say something that isn't true, they mention the notion independently, independent of anything, even in the profession independent. If something's working, if there's a state behind something, it can't be independent. So someone who works for the state, who performs state tasks, he must also respond with his knowledge and skill and ultimately to that acquired diploma and license, or anything, to what he does. A lot of words have been spent on Corridor 10 and on that slope, and I will mention Corridor 11 and I as a citizen, as an ordinary man who travels every day, from the Kings to Belgrade, I was very bothered, there on the loop of LJig, for a long time, doing that stripping of the hill, and I only recently saw why it was done. Well, because someone's been professional, visperous, thinking about the consequences, because that's where they're going to go part of the Ibar Highway, four degrees, or I'm already agreeing I don't know how much it's done and how it's supposed to be, that nobody, or those on the loop, that it's safe, that it's safe and that God doesn't bring that whole hill down to future Corridor 11. So someone was thinking, it was a profession, it wasn't a state, but someone has to suit that profession, and that same state. I'll remember, and Mrs. Minister, and then she was the minister of resist, remembers the great oak, you know how many stories we had then about oak, then there was no story of independence, then there was no story of expertise, there was oak, oak, oak, we couldn't move the oak. Thank God, we moved the oak, we did what we had to do, and that part of the highway, now it's operational. I can tell you a very good, high-quality road, a highway that I like much more, that's less speed, it's probably going to remain less speed than on Corridor 10, but I think, above all, the visual view of that part of the highway gives you the width, gives you the strength and gives you the very real undertaking that those people who worked there have done. And I'm going to end up with the Žeželje Bridge, remember Jank-turned Veselinović, every other session was the Željev Bridge, the Željev Bridge. We opened the Jell-O Bridge, it started working. So, this government, this president of the state, they're doing what they promised, they're doing it securely, and I said the other day, the works are talking, everything else is fog. So keep doing what you did. We even touched a little before and the idea of environmentalism, you didn't talk about it, but we talked about Zavinsko Lake, about Uvec, unfortunately, as if every other year, or I think even every year, when it comes to Uvac, it must have happened this year. The water drops, when the rain falls, when November starts, returns to its previous sides, it is a much bigger problem, a large number of tourists, it is a very beautiful part of Serbia. Now a large number of tourists pollute a large number of those tourist ships were once just one. So we're talking about it, I'm talking about what's true, because it's very ugly, and yet I'm going to go back to what many MPs have started today, as a topic, and it's mentioned, and that's public hanging on the terraces. Well, let's not do that. Here is Mr. Sergey Trifunović, abuses something that, Mrs. Marinika Tepic, for months, has been trying to impose as a subject constantly, all of us 152 MPs here most of us, someone labels us as those who do not want to treat children, so in 2015 we passed such a law. It works and the fund, it does everything, but don't bring petty politics here to parliament and that what you can't and what you promised, and you never did, to bring down some ugly story. As far as these laws are concerned, the laws are excellent. This one law is a whole new law, and I'll talk more about it when there's a debate on amendments. As far as law enforcement is concerned, that's the only thing I'm going to mention, 183,000 is a little bit? Well, since 1947, we haven't had any laws, let alone 183,000. I'm going to mention the city of Kraljevo, which has issued about 5,000 solutions in these two years. So, in 2017 and 2018, it's done pretty well, it can't all be done overnight, but well, we'll be done. When I mentioned the King, I will return to the Shipman airport again, we have talked about it several times, and I see from what the President of the State said a few days ago in the King, that during the following year, first of all, the problem of the military issue, which should first be solved in order to be a civil airport and I am glad to begin, that you signed a letter of intent two days ago, to say so, a pre-contracting with the American performer about Corridor Moravia. Who knows or doesn't know, believe that from the Kings to the Stalaci you need an hour and a half for 70 and a few miles, and that seems to be, you're probably doing measurements, the most frequent of our route. I almost went to Leskovac and I saw somewhere from Vranjska Banja to Stalaj an endless column of tows, damper, these heavy cargo vehicles, whether they're from Montenegro, whether they're from the territory of the Raška district, I see that some international organisations are, but it really means that it's the vessel of the housewife of that part of Serbia, and there's, we all know, about half a million people of Serbia living, it's going to solve a lot of problems. After all, he will bring us many investors. What I keep mentioning when you're in these sessions is that railway corridor from Stallach to the King. I see that from the Kings to the Kragujevac there is an electrification. It is that that facility is bad because of the terrain as it is, there in the valley of Georgia, but I think it's with Corridor Moravia, this road and the connection of Stalac with the King, or Požega and there with the port of Bar to get a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46353	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46354	Thanks for everything you said. Somehow I feel obliged to inform you about the future mixed airport of Shipmen in the King. We've started all the really procedures. What is currently under way is the signing of a contract between the Ministry of Defence and the operator, that is, the Serbian airport. At the same time, the Republic Property Directorate is solving property issues, and I really think we'll finally be able to have an operational airport of Shipmen at the beginning of next year. Of course, we will move on to the investments that are also needed at that airport, the training of all the people who need to work there, and I think we should really turn to further investments at all, not just for the Shipmen, who are very important to that part of Serbia, but also other smaller airports. Thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46355	Comrade Bozovic, you have 25 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46356	Thank you. I ask a concrete question – why does the SNS, why does the SNS government allow illegal construction? We have so many exact examples in Serbia and the capital, and we don't understand why it's not being prevented? Is it because of ignorance, is it because of corruption or because of incompetence? So you've come up with solutions to stop this construction, and on the other hand, it's still going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46357	I thank my colleague Bozovic. Replica, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46358	I thank the chairman. Here's the second day in the principle debate on these bill proposals is the competent Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, we listen to criticism on the SNS account, at the expense of Alexander Vukic and hear about corruption, ignorance and incompetence. It is a pity that the government knew well by 2012 how to apply corruption and to fill its pockets and in power until 2012 we had an affair over the affair. That's not what we're talking about today, but there's been talk of since the SNS came in, we haven't done anything. We want to remind ourselves of the underground containers that cost Serbian citizens six million euros? A project that was the result of malfeasance. We want to remind ourselves of the abuses during the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard here in Belgrade, when the Belgrade city budget was damaged by also six million euros? You want us to remind ourselves of an affair with trams, when the Belgrade city budget was damaged again, for 53m euros? It's the money of Serbian citizens who know where that money went and that's why the gentlemen across the street didn't vote. While they were emptying the city and state register, we were building and working, everything was transparent and everything was verifiable. In their time, only websites cost tens of thousands of euros. We had a session last week that was related to environmental protection – 600,000 euros cost only a promotion of some action, "Let's Clean Serbia". They only cleaned up the Republic of Serbia's budget. Finally, let me ask - did a colleague possibly condemn the attacks on Anna Brnabić and Aleksandra Vukic and the public calls for hanging on the terraces or did I not hear that?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46359	Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46360	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. So I have a concrete example and a specific thing. Mrs. Mihajlović, we got a letter from the tenants of a building on Starar, and here, you are now in a position to verify specifically, at least you may not know about this particular case, but the tenants in the street. "Ljube Davidović 13 on Starstar." Namely, there are two residential buildings and between these two residential buildings we have an illegal building that lasts exactly four years. So, as far as you're at the head of this ministry. What exactly is this about? An investor who does not take into account the fact that he has a legitimately invalided location permit and an invalidated building permit continues to wall. In the meantime, he destroyed both buildings. When it rains, both in one and the other buildings, where the tenants live, in LJube Davidovic 13, moisture enters and their lives are destroyed. They addressed both your ministry and Alexander Vukic, while he was Prime Minister. So, I ask you to do with the work that's been jeopardizing two housing units for four years, can you check with your associates around you, with assistants and advisors, which is why the Ministry doesn't go out in the field and, although the permits have been revoked, still allows an investor who absolutely doesn't mind you. Then how are you going to solve some more difficult cases if you can't solve this particular one on Starry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46361	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46362	Who about what, Ambassador Balsha about, what, honesty, what? That looks like you. So, first of all, let's get along. We need to know first what are whose jurisdictions, so there are amendments and additions to the Law of Law. It is because of those investors, therefore, not because of honest investors who work in accordance with the law, but rather those investors who work outside the law, or who do not respect the law. When you're talking about this legislation and the illegal construction and the question that you've asked before, then perhaps you could first ask yourself, or your members of the party, the alliance, as you already call yourself, with all your coordinators, what were you doing in the area of legislation and construction, primarily illegal? Because everything you've left behind was primarily illegal, from what you've done and you've mostly made for yourself and some of your own personal, party interests, and you haven't done, for example, any single infrastructure project that's most important to this country. I brought it today. I asked for a break to be printed. So this is what Corridor 10 looked like when the Democratic Party was in power and all of these Gilas, Jeremici, Tadici and similar, and this is what the Vrla Bridge looks like today, also Corridor 10. I don't know if you can see it well. So they don't need to say at all, words aren't necessary at all, they're enough to see pictures, it's enough for people to go through Corridor 10, to go through Corridor 11, to see what travel and rail infrastructure looks like today. That's not enough yet. But if you'd done something, if you'd done anything during the time you were in power, then we'd be talking today about some third highway we're going to do, then we'd be talking about even more tracks today. This is how we first had to finish what you, unfortunately, didn't finish the whole time you were in power. So we solve problems, solve what you left behind, plus what we invest in new objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46363	Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46364	Thank you. Mrs. Mihajlovic, we shouldn't be offended. Let's solve one particular problem. You and your Ministry, in 2015, issue a temporary measure and tell the investor to suspend the construction immediately and return everything to its previous state, ul. Ljube Davidović No. 13 on the Starboard, downtown Belgrade. Let me just ask you, since you're surrounded by people who probably know everything about it, is there a solution in cases like this, because I think this is the solution, that this is the one, that there are them in the syasset in Serbia? I'm not asking you about what happened. The smelly buildings, I'm not asking you about the Kopalnik. That's what we were talking about at the beginning of this principle debate. I ask you about a specific case – LJube Davidović 13. The people's walls were broken, moisture entered, their health was disrupted, for four years, everything on their side, all the papers, all the courts, all the decisions, first-degrees and second-degrees. There's still nothing going on, because the investor doesn't think you're any authority, not you, not the law, not your government. So, what are we gonna do in those cases? How, for example, will some in Kopalnik want to be afraid of the law, if any investor in Serbia can afford to endanger housing, endanger people's lives, and absolutely no one can do anything to him? Here, if you don't know now, right now, about this particular street and a specific case, please ask around to help people. I don't want to insult you, nor do I want to take any further steps with you over any insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46365	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46366	I figured it out yesterday, but today I'm going to say it again, I need to repeat it more than once to understand it. I just said, a little while ago, two minutes ago, and that's why we're making changes and additions to the law? Because we had situations where investors were building illegally, to come up with inspections and make a solution to the collapse, to start after that, we also have a second-degree solution, for investors to launch administrative disputes that unfortunately last for years. During these administrative disputes for years, the investor is building up. Well, in order for that to be gone, now the inspection will have the right to go down after a second-degree solution. I said that a little bit. If you'd read the law a little bit, if you really really cared about getting rid of it, I'm sure you wouldn't even say it. By the way, that cover story behind your big concern for the citizens of Serbia, and all you did was worry. So it's really like that for example. It's to write sketches on the subject. Also, as far as I could look at your biography, you're a graduate law student at the Law School in Belgrade. However, you don't have a single day's work experience in these legal affairs, some volunteer, but I guess you understand the basics. I'm a doctor of economic science, so I understand. So this is how such cases, which you have now mentioned from great concern, are really solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46367	You no longer have the right to replicate, my colleague Bozovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46368	I thank the chairman. I want to say that I am sorry that so far these few representatives of this Alliance for Serbia, and I say this disgrace for Serbia, have not found it appropriate to condemn a monstrous statement and call for murder by their members. They've had countless opportunities, but simply, there's been a lack of reaction and that's what causes regret. We're used to it, we're used to insults and telling lies about us, about the SNS, about the President of the Republic, because their policy is based on it, on lies, on slanders, on insults, and lately on threats, we're increasingly threatened. But what Serbian citizens need to know is that it is a broad but unique front in which different actors play their part, so some act the opposition, some act the journalists, some act the unions, some act independent institutions, like that Shabic, but with the same goal, and that is how in every way to attack Alexander Vukic and SNS. When Balsha and Gilas mention the fight against illegal construction, the fight against corruption in this way, it is, if you ask me, Mr. Chairman, at least hypocritically, because they, while they were leading the city of Belgrade, were synonym for corruption, synonym for illegal construction. In their time, there was wild construction in every Belgrade municipality. There were tariffs, there was a price list. It was known in which coffee shop, which one of the officials was brought the money. It was accurate about illegal construction. The whole town knew that. When it comes to the most important amendments and additions to the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, I would, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, have been brought out several times by the Minister and by the authorised representative of the SNS, but simply because of the citizens of Serbia, I would say a few of the most important things, which is that from now on, visibility is required in the 2015 satellite video for all facilities to stop abuses. So satellite footage is available to all citizens. Amendments and additions to the Law on Law-Law have amended the provisions on the availability of satellite footage and now every citizen can make an insight into the satellite footage of which the authority responsible for the affairs of the law, the building inspector and the immovable cataster service. Objects, which are not subject to legislation so far, because they do not meet the legal requirements, are mostly located on public areas or no building zones can now be destroyed after a second-degree decision, so, after a decision on the appeal, or on the basis of the finality, there is no longer any need to await the outcome of any administrative dispute. This is the most important change in the new law and the most important measure of stopping illegal construction and preventing abuse. So far, all the lawless builders, even if rejected in the legal process, have been initiating a dispute at the Administrative Court for at least a few years. During the time of the administrative dispute, these facilities could not be destroyed, and the duration of the dispute was used by lawless investors to complete an illegal building, sell apartments, move in, etc. Furthermore, there is an obligation to file a tax application, so a property tax before obtaining a legal solution. According to the Belgrade Public Revenue Secretariat, only about 5% of the legal objects pay property tax. It's not a normal situation, because the state has made it possible for the owners of illegal objects to mutilate them in this way by symbolic taxes, so it's perfectly normal to pay property tax. Furthermore, it is understood that one object that was built after the entry into force of the Law of Law, in November 2015, is not and cannot be subject to the law. Then, the list of illegally built objects is no longer possible, but we are establishing records of objects that are not included in the immovableity cadastre run by the authority responsible for the affairs of state diameter and cadastre. There is also a obligation to keep public records of all procedures of law enforcement in the public register, i.e. catastro. What else is important? The ban on the subsequent accession of illegal facilities to public infrastructure. Those I would like to point out are given the possibility that the city of Belgrade should entrust part of the legalisation business with the city's municipalities. Why? In Belgrade alone, there are 270,000 legalisation cases, of which over 75% of the 200 squares are. As a result of such a large number of cases, the city of Belgrade has been given the opportunity to entrust part of the city's dealings with municipalities, all in order to speed up the completion of the legislation. Then, it's precise who doesn't pay the billing fee, so no home tax is paid anymore. And these are only the most important changes and concrete benefits for both citizens and for the economy of these draft laws. Since I don't have much time to finish, I'm just going to look back at the part in this discussion that was about some kind of symbol. One of the chiefs, a group of MPs, pointed out here that the symbol of our own facility is on the Kopalnik. The symbol of their authority, when it comes to an illegal shop, is a pasture on the Wizard. That pasture where Sutanovac bought the apartments and never explained what money he bought those apartments from. It was a symbol of their government, and a symbol of our government, GDP growth in the first half of 2018 over 4.8%. It's a symbol of our authority. Foreign direct investment in the first half of 2018, a billion 418m euros of foreign direct investment, is a symbol of our government. The unemployment rate fell to 11.9%, it is a symbol of our government, it is a symbol of the power of Alexander Vukic and SNS. For all these reasons, I suggest we drop all the charges completely unfounded and support these bill proposals in the voting day. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46369	Based on what, my colleague Bozovic? No one mentioned you at any time. Dragan Sutanovac is mentioned, so he is no longer president of the DS. You have no right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic, not there. Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46370	Thank you, Chairman. Minister with associates, I'll talk about amendments to the Law on Law of Law. I truly understand all the reasons that you set out in an explanation for the amendments and additions to this law and I welcome the determination to finally solve the decades-old problem of legalisation and wild construction. We all know it's not an easy job. I would share one observation that is very important and can make a serious difference in the approach of this law compared to all previous ones. It is about what the administrative language calls the lack of interest of the parties in the legalisation process, but when we translate it into Parliament's language because we in parliament are talking about citizens, then things look completely different. That's the point, that's what you see in these amendments and additions to the law. It is the intention of citizens to achieve what is called, if you want legal certainty, but also life security. Citizens need to, and in this regard they are very interested in ending the legal process because it is one of the most important human needs, the need for a roof over the head, the need for a safe home, because it was also the reasons that forced them to enter this risky business for a period of 10, 15, 20 years. I understand that the responsibility and competence in this process is what you insist on, because if there is no responsibility and jurisdiction clearly defined, and that different approach, which deals with citizens who are interested in solving their problems, that is what makes the main difference and what can really bring the legalisation process to an end. Simplified procedures for obtaining building permits are sufficient reason to really introduce zero tolerance for wild construction. There's no need to build wildly because the regulations are simplified, cheap. I'll remind myself, and it doesn't matter, that in 2010 and 2011, after the construction licenses were issued, we were at 173 of the 183 countries of the world. I am pleased that you remained consistent with yourself when you said in November 2015 that this was a zero point for wild construction. I'm glad you didn't extend the jurisdiction of this law to the facilities that were built after that period, because we're witnessing that there were such examples. He's got them. I just want to say that it's not quite true that it wasn't done, from what I've stated so far, it's clear what's been done. I'd just like to remind you of something we all forget, and it's fair to say. We are still recovering from that 2009 law, not to mention land conversion, not to mention the damage the law has done to the construction industry in the long term in Serbia. I really want to believe that you will succeed in finding the mechanism and we will certainly help you, using our control function, to establish mechanisms, that all of them, especially at the bar, who participate in the implementation and application of this law, are responsible and that they clearly know what their jurisdiction is, because this is the only way to finally solve the legalisation problem. When we send a clear message, that there is no possibility of wild construction and that it will no longer be forgiven, because there is no need for that, then we can clearly single out, if someone is still doing it, that it is the irresponsible individuals who have some personal need to disabling the law, to which the state and you as the competent ministry certainly have to answer. In voting day, if I didn't mention it at the beginning, I'll support all the proposals you've made, as well as my colleagues from the SDPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46371	Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46372	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with the co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I will speak of two laws. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on air traffic, and the second is the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Economic and Technical Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary, in the area of infrastructure projects. Before I start my presentation, I have to look back, because all day here they tell us that we should be telling the truth, and the truth is only one, that never in life in Serbia was ever built again, but in the period from 2012 to 2018, when the SNS came to the head, with then Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and today as president. Why? Because our president is building a system. This was a completely devastated country. I'll talk about traffic, and I'll tell you what it's like sometimes, what it's like now. They honor us here about Belgrade on the water. There's nothing more beautiful than this Belgrade on the water today. Look at the world's cities, the Thames, London's on the Thames, and Parliament's in the Thames, Paris, the Senate. The most exclusive neighborhoods are right on the water, and we have two rivers. Let's just remember what it looked like by 2012. It was a cemetery of ships, and no one in their right mind was allowed through there. You know why? Because it was a snake-breathing place, angry dogs, and no one normal, the one who passed the bikes was carrying pieces of meat to defend himself against the dogs. Today everyone should go and look, because it's one of the most beautiful promenades in this part of the world. Well done. Now I'm going back to air traffic, to make a parallel as it used to be during the old Yugoslavia, when it was a powerful "JAT", so Yugoslavia fell apart, and we kept the name until 2012 "JAT". So, the non-existent mission, the unworkable aircraft, the old flight operation, and the dinar wasn't invested in the aircraft. So it's a completely devasted air traffic. Since 2012, there's been a lot of money invested, we've got new planes, we've got a junior flight operation, we've completely renovated the airport, we're expanding the runway, we've got a whole other story. People have to understand, the first impression when they get into our country, across the airport, and this very airport, it's a picture of the city they're going to be in, and that's why they're going to be coming back. When we talk about the function of development, we talk first of all about the complete system and we have to invest it in education, in production, in absolutely everything. Fortunately, according to the government of the Republic of Serbia's recommendation, regarding the Nis Airport, it was recommended that it no longer be paid to foreign companies, because we are losing a lot of money. Since we stopped doing this, we've increased the traffic of goods 300 times at that airport. We have increased traffic eighty times, fantastically, so money is included in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It flew over the Republic of Serbia 80% higher. This is how the responsible government of the Republic of Serbia works. What's best, in 2017, we included 550 million pure money, indirectly, 2.2 billion, and so the government is responsible. That's how it's usually done. That's why there are inappropriate criticisms on this side, if we want to criticise it, we are in favour of hearing good and well-intentioned criticism and improving it. There was talk here about Corridor 10. Corridor 10 to 2012, and since 2012, here we are, 2018 will finally be after 60 years finished Corridor 10. It's Corridor 11, it's going to be a highway to Sarajevo, it's going to be a highway to Tirana. Why? Market economy, if we don't have highways, no one will live to invest in the Republic of Serbia or whatever in the Republic of Serbia. Well done, that's how it's supposed to be done. I am sure that in a few years we will be one, and already we are of the most developed countries in Southeast Europe, a stability factor, but with the addition, with the construction of still highways, we will be the top investment destination. What else is there to say? It should be said that we are one of the safest air agencies, that we are rated with seven stars, which means that the safety of the cannon, that we are flying to a hundred destinations, that we have direct flights, to New York, to Beijing, that we are in negotiations to make another 20 agreements, and with existing ones, I think it will be a top. I think when this concession is over, we'll be better by 1.5 billion euros. Just two more sentences, as far as the second bill is concerned, with Hungary we have never had such good bilateral relations in our lives, as since 2012, and further with the government of Hungary, and I am sure that in the next period, all the projects we have imagined will be achieved. We already signed the preliminary agreement in February of this year, and now we're going to ratify it in a few days and the point is that the people, who are supposed to be doing these projects, and both sides have made it, and the Management Board that will control the implementation of these projects, and what I can't skip, have already started building a fast track from Novi Sad to Budapest, have been designed projects and we talked about it a year ago, on both sides. These projects were given, we gave the project and the Hungarians, the projects were united, they were given to the investor and the contractor, and they were going to be Chinese companies, and I'm sure in a few years we'd be driving fast tracks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46373	The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46374	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with Associates, I will focus on the Construction Products Act in the context of today's united debate on a package of laws in the area of construction. To date, Serbia unfortunately did not have a general, or roof regulation in the area of construction products, although we are large and famous manufacturers of a large number of construction products. The need to regulate this economic activity in a unique way stems from the need to standardise the quality of construction products by applying domestic standards, but also from the obligation to comply with EU law in this area. So, to harmonize our legal framework with meeting international standards, which is part of the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows. The ultimate outcome of this harmonisation is the placing on the market of quality building materials, with good performances, so those who are neither dangerous nor for the safety of objects, nor for the health of people. Environmental standards for building materials must be met. Why is the ecological aspect important? Construction products that are built into housing but also in business and public buildings must meet the strict conditions of environmental protection. We spend most of our lives in houses and apartments, so it's very important that, in addition to the quality of construction materials and their sustainability standards, there are environmental standards. Just to remind you of asbestos buildings that are otherwise health-threatening. Also, I would draw attention to the importance of using materials that meet environmental standards in construction today. This is also an EU requirement for our legislation to be harmonised in the context of environmental standards, because only such construction products will we be able to place on the market of EU Member States. I'd like to advocate the re-affirmation of traditional construction materials, so-called. Ambital, autochtonic building materials that are legally positioned in developed countries and where their use by stimulating measures is otherwise affirmed. These materials mean healthy conditions and housing and life, especially for rural areas dealing with rural tourism. When we talk about traditional materials, I mean, first of all, the use of wooden materials, wooden buildings, clay and other materials. The law should enable the use of these materials so that those who build houses from them can obtain building permits, or use permits. This also contributes to the legalisation of such facilities, which there are plenty in many tourist environments. Also, if these materials were to be standardised, regular credit support would also be allowed for households that would be defined for these types of construction. I think this would also preserve Serbia's people's heritage. The environment is being preserved and, most importantly, it is being saved on resources. That wouldn't mean we're going back to some distant past. This means we use economic resources from our natural environment. The definition of traditional construction is an idea that our parliamentary group has turned into an amendment that we have submitted, and we will talk about it in particular. In addition to this amendment, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted an additional number of amendments to this law, so I believe the government will consider them. When it comes to the production of construction materials, we must stress the importance of this branch of economy for overall economic development, because the construction of infrastructure and housing facilities brings together numerous products and manufacturers and includes the economy, especially when it comes to large infrastructure projects, because in Serbia about 1,200 registered construction products are produced under this law and they will be standardised and controlled. We support this solution because it is natural for the manufacturer to guarantee quality in itself. All of this is in favour of supporting this new bill, which should regulate the production and distribution and placement of construction products on our market and encourage exports to the region and other European countries. From all of this, the SPS parliamentary group will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46375	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46376	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, first when we adopted the Law of Law in 2015, I also spoke at the time, and I am one of the MPs who supported the adoption of this law. After three years, the law has brought much good. What's good about this law above all is that at least it's clearly signed by the local self-government number of illegal objects, but what I pointed out in 2015, and what I can do today, Mrs. Minister, is one problem that I think today, after two-and-a-half years of law enforcement, we should admit, is that this is where we failed our exam to prevent further wild construction. You have also explained to us that the line will be drawn, that all further wild construction will be a crime, that local self-government should roll up sleeves, of course the ministry, but in practice local self-governments have mostly signed and sent solutions to people about forced destruction, and that is where they completely care. This is where the citizens created a little confusion, especially in the rural area. On the other hand, what's good is that the ad hoc ministry allowed local self-governments to receive a certain number of people who did these jobs, but these were people hired by contracts on occasional and temporary jobs, which were neither professional enough and that job got very old, and in reality, it could have been faster. On the other hand, what I think is good at these changes is that it will simplify the procedure for the demolition and that has already been done by fellow MPs and I would not repeat it. I fully agree with that, that it should not wait for the end of the administrative dispute, but what cannot be legalised, it must be destroyed immediately. You can't legalize gas pipeline facilities, plumbing installations at all, on line infrastructure facilities, and that's where we absolutely agree. Where I would ask you, which is very important, it is that you advocate with the Vice-President of the Government to abolish the ban on employment in the public sector. We need more in local self-government than most people who will engage not only in law enforcement. Today we have additions and amendments to the Law on the transport of passengers in road traffic. I'm talking about cab drivers. Taxists have become wound cancer today, especially in smaller municipalities in Serbia. Taxi drivers are operating completely illegal or wild-line transport. They go in front of the carrier five minutes in the morning when the kids go to school, they buy passengers at the price of the bus ticket, and we all don't watch because we don't have enough inspectors in both the ministry and the local self-government, and that's something we need until we go, Madam Minister, to take the vehicles away. You can't catch the same man who does a wild cab ride five times, gets a small criminal sentence and he comes back and does the same thing. As long as we play with regulations and we don't have enough people who will clearly be able to say gentlemen once, twice, three times, the vehicle goes to auction to sell it nicely, pay out of that punishment and more problems. When you have such an example with wild cab drivers, when you have an example of the destruction of those who have, rather than destroying the poor, there would be no more problem. When we talk about amendments to the Law on Road Traffic, transporters in general in Serbia are in a lot of trouble today. I come from the Forest, where this year for a forest peasant was probably the hardest. What I need to draw your attention to, since I still have a little time left, I would ask you to be a resolute minister while on the world's stock exchanges the price of oil leaps to simply consider reducing excise duties in order to cost transport, because our transport companies are falling a lot at this point. Our jobs are taken by transporters from Macedonia and BiH, who have up to 25%-30% cheaper fuel than we do. We currently have fruits from the Shumadia carried by Bosnian carriers and that is what we must not miss. This is an example of life, and this is something I ask you, that we are simply all interested in all of this together, because our carriers are in serious trouble. We were talking about the driver's drain. We also have a problem with the permits that you've been trying very successfully to solve, but now this fuel price problem is something that's quite present. On the other hand, we voted here in 2004 from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2,000km of regional and state roads on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I have the information, since there has been a lot of talk here about this corridor from Pojat to Preljina, I would ask if any of the associates can give us exactly how many kilometers of rehabilitation from this European Bank's restructuring and development loan has been completed since 2014? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46377	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46378	Here, I'll give you that information. We talked a lot about them, but let's go back to the beginning, after you first talked about the bill of law. I really believe that we will be able to implement the legal process much faster than it was in the previous period. I really don't give up on that. I fully agree with you, if we were to see what would be a critical point in law enforcement, and I believe that we're going to solve it, it's really a question of the number of inspectors. Almost all local self-government has shown the need not only now, but in the last two years for a number of construction inspectors and others, but we are now talking, first of all, about this area. I don't think it's a question of whether or not the regulation will be lifted. I think we need to do it two ways. The first step is that every local self-government once again has to take a good look at the entire structure of its employees, because it seems to me that somehow it wasn't thinking about what the priority is when hiring people in some units of local self-government, what I could see, therefore, by redistributing employees, and then, of course, by adding, because, definitely, in order for the law to be implemented, the inspection has to exist and has to do its job. It's related, therefore, to road traffic inspection. When we talk about these changes and additions to the Law on the Transport of Passengers in Road Traffic, I must admit that it was the taxi drivers and cab drivers' associations that initiated us to change this law, aware that more and more wild cab drivers were emerging, that problems were emerging in the process. The value of only the taxi service market, for example, is 30m euros in Belgrade territory. That's an estimate of the annual value. So, first of all, we're talking about a lot of taxi drivers, we're talking about families, after all, who live out of it, we're talking about the market that exists and, of course, about those who need to use these services, so in that sense I think we've made a quality step because it was clear that the units of local self-government and cities are not able to regulate this issue in such detail, and I hope that we're also going to have a positive shift here. When you mention, too, the carriers, I think there are two problems and I think we should talk to the finance ministry and I'm really going to initiate it with the minister. So, anyway, along with the Excise Associations with the Ministry of Finance, but also about another thing that I also think is a serious problem, and that's standing our trucks at the border. We face this problem more and more. It directly affects the competitiveness, affects, of course, the companies that do it, but it affects, above all, the competitiveness of the entire country, so what I can promise is that we'll sit down with the finance ministry and see if we can solve these problems. The credit that was taken several years ago is 300 million, plus from the budget close to 100m euros, from the EBRD, the EIB and the World Bank, we have completed about 100km, rehabilitated, reconstructed about 100km of roads. At least that much project-technical documentation is under way. We've issued confirmations for 178.65 kilometers of completed roads. So that's what you do. What was the problem, not to be confused immediately, was not the problem with domestic performers or projectors, it seems to me that at first there was a problem in the procedures of the three banks that exist. So we have the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank. Each one had its own procedures, and when we wanted to speed up these procedures, they couldn't, firstly, agree between themselves and put up with it a lot, but we did it, I believe, to solve it and now it won't be a problem anymore. I hope I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46379	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46380	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, dear fellow MPs, my colleagues spoke of a set of laws ahead of us. I'll look back on the changes and additions to the Air Traffic Act. In the past two days, you've been exposed, as have all your fellow ministers, and some criticisms I probably don't understand from the position of professionals. I will try, for the sake of Serbia's public, to explain what is what through the amendments and additions of this law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. primarily by you as a resolute ministry. So we are talking about continuing to bring our legislation into line from this area to international standards and EU regulations. When it comes to the application of international standards, special attention should be paid to the addition of a new chapter of this law, which is in line with Annex 18 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and applies primarily to the safe transport of dangerous goods in air traffic. The reason for this change is that the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods did not provide for air traffic. It was necessary to classify it this way and define this area as part of the law. Also, what is law and what is more clear is the jurisdiction of the state authorities. This specifically refers to provisions on environmental protection. Powers for the adoption of regulations in the area and protection against noise and exhaust emissions shall be transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry responsible for environmental protection tasks, given that it is within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Air and Ozone Protection, as well as protection against noise and vibration. This is another indicator that there is a real continuity in the work of the government. The bill also tightened inspection supervision, and all in line with the Co-ordination Commission's suggestions for inspection supervision. The rights, obligations and conditions that must be met by both aircraft operators and aircraft operators are clearly defined. The Civil Aviation Directorate, which is responsible for conducting an inspection, is given the possibility to carry out professional tasks can be entrusted to a person who has the expertise necessary to carry out the professional tasks without calling an air inspector, as in practice an insufficient number of air inspectors have encountered the problem. Through these amendments, the law will also define conditions for existing aviation security. They'll raise them to a higher level. More specifically, the Air Force Leader Institute has been defined, with the authority to take official measures and actions, all in order to preserve the safety of both passengers and airships themselves and their crew. It is also possible for air carriers to establish a list of unacceptable passengers and for safety reasons to refuse to carry such passengers at all. Therefore, the changes and additions will allow the free market of air services for which there is development potential, as well as the improvement of the aviation industry and investment in the same. These are just some of the advantages of amending and supplementing the Law that are proposed and I, unfortunately, because of the short time I have left and the space for my colleague Vesna, I am here finishing my presentation, noting that, like all MEPs, I will support a set of laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46381	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46382	Thank you, Chairman. As for the Law on the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, the amendments and additions will provide new opportunities and further regulate this area. They'll get in the way of illegal construction without permission and profit by breaking the law directly. Easier and faster implementation of a solution to the removal of illegal objects is introduced. These measures will shorten the whole process, as so far it has been waiting for the end of court disputes. These changes to the law will bother the tycoons and irresponsible investors who are rich by avoiding paying taxis, so they will now have a traffic ban. No more illegal sales. So far, lawless builders, even if refused, have been instigating a dispute in court and the duration of the administrative dispute, have used them to complete the illegal construction of buildings, sell apartments and make them rich. What does that all mean? This means that all the objects for which the solutions to be rejected or rejected will be destroyed on the basis of the final solution. That, respected citizens, means that Djilas, Shapic, Stefanovic and the godmothers are in big trouble. We won't allow any more 300 million-dollar puzzle parks, no more dead people for investors, and they won't be able to falsify and lie. They'll have to, like all of us, pay taxes. I think it's important that the paper is required to carry out the visibility checks on the satellite requests submitted under the old laws in order to prevent abuses. However, in order not to damage those citizens who built before the law was passed, whose facilities are not listed due to the failure of construction inspectors, they will be allowed to be legalised. The Yellow Authority issued a building permit in about 300 days. Because of the great corruption, the construction mafia, the problem of lawless construction remained unresolved. Based on the list carried out under this law, there has been a database of about a million and 600 illegally built objects so far. By adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, e-reforms, i.e. The e-space will be reduced to 12 months, which I think is very good and will bring good results. Finally, I would like to mention a project to build the Moravia Corridor, a highway from Kruševac to Cačka, which I think is very important, because the 110km highway will pass through central Serbia and connect road Corridor 10 to Corridor 11. The fact is that the Serbian government is working with all countries that want to invest and can contribute to the better and development of our country. We're leaders in the region by attracting investment. We've changed the state. Since 2012, when we found a catastrophic situation, where Serbia was on the verge of economic and financial collapse, we have achieved a 4.5% GDP growth and are now the tenth on the "Ding Business List". The current results of the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure have greatly contributed to raising GDP and overall development, and I, Minister, congratulate you on that. In voting day, the SNS will vote for all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46383	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46384	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, a respected lady minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, in Serbia's economy, the construction industry is highly positioned, and its prosperity reflects on the accompanying production branches and areas. It is therefore of great importance to pass this set of laws in the area of construction. As for the draft law on construction products, my colleague spoke, so I would move on to the Law on Planning and Construction. The fact is that we changed it several times and upgraded it, last time in 2014, but it also brought newspapers in the area of planning and construction, which as an effect had this that the process of issuing building permits was made more efficient, faster and more transparent, and the procedure accelerated. The adoption of this law of the release procedure was faster and simpler, and a higher level of legal certainty will be achieved. When the law establishes the necessary legal and economic mechanisms, private investment, which includes building facilities, will be attracted, which will help create new jobs and strengthen overall economic activity. To sum up the positive effects of this law, which are – reduce the cost of procedures, save time in obtaining permits, more efficient work by state authorities, reduce the price of built-up buildings. In one word, a legal framework will be created that will further encourage organised and controlled construction. The reason for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Law of Law is that illegal objects return to legal flows. For many years, mass illegal construction has seen an increase, which is due to the huge inflow of the population into cities, above all, due to lack of control, but also because of the lack of planning documentation that would allow legal construction. The laws that have been passed so far in this area have been a modest effect. The adoption of this law is of public interest and what is most important, which is the essence of the law, that illegally built buildings are introduced into legal flows after a legal decision and entered into a public book, which brings legal certainty, increases the market value of the facility, facilitates the transport of real estate, as well as obtaining permission to perform additional works on the facility, as well as the possibility of borrowing by placing a mortgage on a registered facility. The aim of the law is, in one word, to provide an opportunity for illegally built objects to be introduced into legal flows, i.e. that they are mutilated, not destroyed, because if they were to collapse illegally built objects, we would have significant economic losses and an inconceivable social problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46385	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46386	Thank you. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the problem of lawless construction exists back decades, but has most escalated in the 1990s, when mass lawless construction is recorded, whose cause is a major inflow of the population with the war on affected areas, the lack of any kind of control over illegal construction, but also the lack of planning documentation that would allow legal construction. Up to the entry into force of the Law on the Law on the Law of Objects in the Republic of Serbia, around 771,000 legalisation applications were filed. Following the census, which was carried out under this law by a construction inspection, it was found that there were 1,659,307 illegally built objects, which had not been registered in any way and for which legalisation was not submitted. The amendments to the Law on Law and the Law on Planning and Construction will provide state and building inspectors and local self-government with new opportunities for an even more effective fight against irresponsible investors who are building without permission and are trying to make them rich in breaking the law. Amendments to the law provide that, instead of a judicial solution which rejects or rejects a request for legislation, a final solution that rejects or rejects the application for legislation is sufficient. This measure should bring much more removal of illegal objects than ever before, as the collapse has been pending until the end of too long administrative and judicial disputes. The amendments to the law also provide that all illegal objects have a ban on traffic until a final solution to the legislation or its refusal is reached and that is, by introducing a notice into a cadastre for all illegal objects that will prevent them from being trafficked. The need for these amendments stems from the fact that certain provisions of the material part of the applicable law are exhausted, so it is necessary to put them outside the legal force and to comply with the provisions of other new laws, and all of them, given that the legislation is of public interest to the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a proposer of this law has clearly defined that the adoption of this law constitutes a public interest. The process of legislation has a wider economic impact on society, the national economy and the state budget. The procedure and mechanisms proposed by this law form the basis for solving decades of problems in this area, and this law shows a clear intention to finally get in the way of wild construction in Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the bill's proposal in a voting day, as well as any other proposals on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46387	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46388	Thank you. Madam Minister, associates, there are plenty of laws on the agenda, and I will only talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Law on Law of Objects. When the minister was in the assembly last time and I was discussing the laws, the minister said it was logical that I didn't understand it, because I'm a dentist. Then I made a little effort to see what it's like to have a relationship between a doctor of economic science and a building, so you're going to give me the right to think that it's just as important as a dentist and a building. I have watched further, and I have seen that for six years you have been a minister, four years in this place and two years before that at the post of Minister of Energy, and before that you were a member of the G17 Energy and Environmental Protection Advisor of the then Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Labus. So you've been in politics for a long time, and you've been in positions where it could have been decided. And now we're changing the Law on Law of Objects, and now I've got a whole series of questions coming up that I couldn't get answers to. However, I have heard today how many legal objects have been in the past. I haven't heard how many objects have been destroyed. In fact, I'm beginning to be inclined to conclude, which may be wrong, but you'll allow me to be as an ignorant MP to conclude in the way I feel I should conclude, it seems to me that only laws are made to make things right, to get something legalized. We almost passed the law out of education to credentialize universities that didn't have credentials, because they also gave doctoral degrees. So we passed a second law that, for God's sake, the student didn't know he didn't graduate from college, but he enrolled in doctoral studies and we fixed it for him. And now we're passing the law that some of the objects that I've learned have been created during your period of management of the ministry have been given the opportunity to be legalized. It's not a problem that you're facing absolutely yours. That takes 50 years. It's been going on since Communism. And I'm making a difference here, and I'm trying to be constructive, so that maybe I can solve this legalization issue, make my proposals. There are three different groups of illegal objects. The first group were the facilities when Serbia's first storm was carried out, when the peasants pulled out of the village and explained to him that he should be a worker and then, with the silent consent of the state, which provided good credits and cheap construction materials, built an essential facility for its life and remained illegal, from that period. The second group were the ones who sought a slightly larger conformism during that same period and made 200 square meters. The third group, the ones that are some of the last years, well, we'll admit, and during your ministry management, we're building five-six floors, illegally, and now they, like, didn't know, and now we're gonna, like, do something about it. I don't know what to do, because we're getting into a whole series of problems. Imagine them who don't have the opportunity to legalize it, and imagine a building that's already been moved in. I would suggest that all of them be charged well and rigorously, and I would take care of them and interest and all claims. But what can happen? It could happen that this investor is gone, that his company went out in the meantime, and people bought apartments. Well, then we have another problem. Imagine the situation, by law, article 39. We say – unless the facility is legalized within three days to cut off its electricity. Electricity is only connected if the application for legalisation has been submitted. And now imagine somewhere where the legalized objects aren't, how do we turn off the power? How do we turn off the power, for example, in the Roma settlement in the King? How do we think about shutting down the power out there somewhere that has more kids, five, six, isn't a legalized facility, can't legalize it? It's all our problems. Minister, we can meet with that. I'm not mean here. I'm gonna do a little depression right now, 'cause I'm running out of time. Yesterday, I listened to my colleagues from Topless Place. This comes to you as a well-intentioned advice. I've been listening to colleagues from Toplicia who have been talking about a highway that needs to be built through their neighborhood, which, like that, when I'm angry and redesigned, I call NATO a highway. Of course we should do it for the Serbs of that neighborhood and I welcome them all on this occasion, but we've been talking about the Moravia Corridor for a long time. Now we see, as you say, that it has been signed these days by the Memorandum, I won't be wrong, I won't talk about Ambassador Scott and the previous ambassadors of the enemy state and your reaction in that case, but I want to tell you that then the signed Memorandum, comes out the title in the newspaper – the highway Moravski Corridor finished by 2019. I beg of you, Minister, but seriously please say when do you expect this trip to be over? I am speaking to you as a member of the Committee on Infrastructure, which has been on the Committee for two years. I've been doing this for two years and I keep asking questions. That's why I'm asking you to say the deadline. There is my well-intentioned advice – be longer with the deadline, say a year later, so that it may be a year before, so that we may all be happy and content, and you as then minister or any future minister and resident. Because it's unrealistic to say that something will be finished in 2019. In the 2012 campaign, I am from Kraljev, it was described as a pre-election promise from the Serbian Progressive Party – Moravski Corridor, Moravski Corridor. Six years go by, it hasn't started yet, and now we're going to finish it in 2019, and I know what the problem with the coast of Morava, with the making, with that part. I know how much it costs, because I'm a member of the board. If anyone asks you what I asked you, you say 2025, so be it in 2024, and we're happy. Don't give the deadlines and keep those deadlines short after. What bothers me the most about all this? When you talk, you really don't show that you feel any degree of responsibility. You've been here six years. Well, it must be someone's fault. And who's to blame if they're building a three-time closed-pool project in the King? We pay for the project three times. The first was no good, so let's do the second, and now we're making the third, and that's what the people pay for. Someone must be responsible. Who's to blame? In the village, on the way from the King to Kragujevac, a man began to build in his estate an object, a barn, what he said, there is no permit. A construction inspection came in, pulled out those yellow tapes, and he can't come in. And in cities, buildings are built on seven floors, and we say we don't have a chance to stop it. So there's an opportunity to prevent it. Sometimes there's no good will or maybe there's no courage. I asked a few questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46389	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46390	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 107 - the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't know what's wrong with this election list, those who claim America is our enemy state. Maybe to us, but not to them. So that state pushed them in, let Professor Vujic explain, in parliament without censorship, she didn't push me. Secondly, Mr. Chairman, the villagers are constantly mentioned here as the main culprits of illegal construction. Maybe a peasant in Cačka, his last name is Obradovic, came from the village of Vranići, but, he was a construction inspector, worked there in "Hydrogradnja", ruined, left workers out of work, came, you have 44,950 registered facilities in Cačka and 95,326. The fact that he came from the village is not the peasants' fault for illegal construction, but the building inspector in Cačka called Obradovic. Next. On that same election list, it was repeated yesterday that we peasants should plow, dig and sit outside the store and drink beer, we are not even worthy of a restaurant. We should sit in front of the store. It's a hate speech to me, and it repeats itself. Do we consider ourselves less valuable to people? It's a minimum of fascism. People, if you think we don't belong in parliament, then you're in terrible error. I recommend that next time they pass Karadjordje, beginners of a new modern Serbian state turn their cheeks, not to look at him, because he was a peasant, he was making a state, and they were breaking it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46391	Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) Thank you very much. Right on line, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46392	Thank you, Chairman. I needed to get back to you, because I heard a grudge that the laws were passed to make something right. The laws are passed, I guess, that our country would also follow trends, and that's why changes and additions are being made to follow trends, to further work on modernising our country and to make certain things right and to ensure proper application of the law. Obstacles to the Moravia Corridor, the basic problem is the deadline in which the Moravia Corridor will be made. Of course, we haven't heard for the first time that something that was announced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the President of Serbia has been criticised, and everything is suspected, that there will be nothing, and then we can see that the highways are finished, that the factories are finished, that new jobs are open, that wages and pensions have increased, but constantly here in the Assembly we can hear that we suspect everything that happens later. I would suggest to them that they might talk a little bit to Dragan Gilas and explain to him where the Moravia Corridor is, since I remember seeing Dragan Gilas in 2017 on RTS who had no idea where this Moravia Corridor is, or where he's going, so maybe it would be good to explain it to him. In the end, I want to end this announcement and repeat the question – did someone else condemn calling for hanging on the terraces across the street? Let them be honored.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46393	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46394	Apropo of this first mention of Gilas, I think Gilas probably knows where the Pioneer Park is, and he hardly knows where the Moravia Corridor is. As far as the MP is concerned, you've really made progress even though you're a dentist by profession, that's true. You know, like that, I'm human to ask you -- if you, uh, you're being asked a question -- if you support your colleague coming out and saying to hang anyone here, we're talking about the Prime Minister and the President of the State. So, like, I say human, and you once said human. So, do you support that?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46395	Right to the replica, MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, Madam Minister, it doesn't occur to me to justify the incomparableness of somewhere I have the impression that this is in fact just the continuation of the brave step-up that the Government has made whose head today was the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and the continuation of the fight against illegal construction in Serbia. However, it should be known that this is not some recent problem, this is a decades-old problem in Serbia that is experiencing its culmination after 2000 and the authorities of that unfortunate DOS. I'm going to go back and make one retrospective of what it was that preceded all of this. You know that at the time the building permit in Serbia was waiting two to three years. This is one of the spells, another is the cause of one serious number of privileged individuals who had the privilege of avoiding legal regulations and of building without the necessary documentation, which was normally close to the authorities at the time. What are the consequences? The consequences are very serious. The consequences are that at that time you have Serbia in 175 places in the world at the speed of issuing building permits. You have a seriously collapsed construction industry when many major construction firms in Serbia disappear in that unfortunate and looting privatisation. You have as a consequence the dismissal of workers from the same companies and in the end, as a result of everything, two million illegally built buildings in Serbia. That's the final score. This is the result that will await the government of Alexander Vukic and the government's ministry. That's when the big business starts. I'm already a start, and the big thing was to list all these objects, which laid the groundwork for serious resolution and facing this problem. It's something that was first done in history. The two million buildings in Serbia have been seriously recorded and listed. Today as a consequence, in fact, as something that preceded all of this and these today's legal solutions, you have a faster issue of building permits, where you wait up to a few days, in my subotics only two to three days, as far as I know. Even on the site of your ministry, Subotica is located as one of five cities where construction permits are quickly issued. You have a serious launch of the construction industry. Instead of the 500 sites you had active during Gilas as leader of that unfortunate alliance, you have about 2,500 active sites in Serbia, correct me minister if I am wrong. That's one serious step when it comes to this thing. Because of all the easier procedures that happened in the meantime, you have fewer cases of illegal construction. To the soul, I can't from some human aspect criticise a part of the people who during that period managed to build their housing facilities and take care of the family and find a minimum of some security for their own family, but the number of these cases as a consequence of all these legal solutions has been reduced to a minimum. For Serbia to know, these cases still exist today and no one can deny it, however, this law that is before us today is in fact a continuation of the fight against this illegal construction. First of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, we will again take a bold step. Not the words of the Messenger of the people, even though he is the messenger of my party. On the other hand, the policy of the Serbian Dvori movement has never been hanging, nor will it ever be hanging. But there's something else I need to tell you. I'm, like, last night, in this congregation, called an animal. The president of the state calls me a fool, a lunatic, an asshole, a thief, a fool, a sexist, because I'm a member of the opposition, and no one has ever condemned it. So I am clearly and publicly building on what MP Nogo said and I repeat the Serbian Movement of the Dvora never hanged anyone, nor is it in the politics of the Serbian Movement of the Dvora. So much for that. I wish anyone who has the name of a People's MP, because on his shoulders he carries the burden of the chosen voices does not share this people, so that as I reacted, I see the reaction when I am told that I am an animal, which happens in this assembly. Take the stenogram. You were here last night. No one responded to that. I don't have a problem. One time I said it and I'm going to say it another time Ava Cassians Studenski said it – I didn't want to get hurt in my own language, I said it a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46397	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46398	For those who like to quote great predecessors, and also to me, the Negossa seems very often. This is what was called a defiant. It does not strike the goal. A man cannot be recognized in the condemnation of those who call for hanging, to be recognized alone, and then he says, "No, I do not support it." Do you have to decide whether or not you imitate and recognize each other? What did Alexander Wolf have to ask? He asked something that interests everyone in this country. He asked where Dragan Gilasu came from 25m euros acquired during how many four years of state office for four years of politics. That's a logical question. That's what everyone in their country is interested in. He asked the question where did millions of euros come from at Vuk Jeremic's expense? What does he do? What did he deserve, profit? When he asks him an open question in the show, and they ask him a question several times on your media that you've identified yourself with here, the great coordinators of that tycoon alliance, Ljotic, you know who you are, you know. You've probably identified yourself among the first, among all those who call for hangings and rapes. Well, you. So when someone asks Jeremiah to lie down with his shoulders and kittens, well, I can't tell you, so it's not polite for me to tell you. He asked the question of Alexander Vukic, again about this Jeremic, what does everyone in this country care about, exactly, about which service did he receive those 200,000 euros from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin? This is what Aleksandar Vukic asked, and those who are struck, which reminds them that they have identified themselves as followers of Dimitri Ljotic, as followers of Marisal Petrovic, if the followers of those who led the children to the shooting have a problem, not with us, not with Alexander Vukic, but with themselves. That problem should be solved internally. Every single person or those they sit next to. While they're sitting where they're sitting. Until, in one word, they condemn rape and invitation to hanging. Well, that's what they're listening to right now, that's what friends tell them about. They are all Vesenović and Nogo and Gilas and Jeremic, continue there is no difference on your own.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46399	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has been made by MP Milomir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46400	Thank you, Chairman. Apparently, in this Alliance for Change, to begin by saying, they give up everything and everything yesterday, the Night, today the Leg, God knows everything, everyone or everything, the only thing they don't give up and what brings them together are Gilas' millions and hatred for the president of the state. But it is a good thing that this policy is naked and depicted in this way finally here in Parliament. I'd go back to the law, that's all. on the legislative proposals that are before us today, and I will begin again from this Law on Planning and Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, because I was somehow given the introduction by the previous speaker and made one retrospective of everything that has happened in the past and what has preceded this situation and these legal solutions that are before us today. Somewhere I have the impression that in fact this is just a continuation of that brave step-up that the government led today's President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and a continuation of the fight against illegal construction in Serbia. However, it should be known that this is not some recent problem, this is a decades-old problem in Serbia that is experiencing its culmination after 2000 and the authorities of that unfortunate DOS. I'm going to go back and make one retrospective of what it was that preceded all of this. You know that at the time the building permit in Serbia was waiting two to three years. This is one of the spells, another is the cause of one serious number of privileged individuals who had the privilege of avoiding legal regulations and of building without the necessary documentation, which was normally close to the authorities at the time. What are the consequences? The consequences are very serious. The consequences are that at that time you have Serbia in 175 places in the world at the speed of issuing building permits. You have a seriously collapsed construction industry when many major construction firms in Serbia disappear in that unfortunate and looting privatisation. You have as a consequence the dismissal of workers from the same companies and in the end, as a result of everything, two million illegally built buildings in Serbia. That's the final score. This is the result that will await the government of Alexander Vukic and the government's ministry. That's when the big business starts. I'm already a start, and the big thing was to list all these objects, which laid the groundwork for serious resolution and facing this problem. It's something that was first done in history. The two million buildings in Serbia have been seriously recorded and listed. Today as a consequence, in fact, as something that preceded all of this and these today's legal solutions, you have a faster issue of building permits, where you wait up to a few days, in my subotics only two to three days, as far as I know. Even on the site of your ministry, Subotica is located as one of five cities where construction permits are quickly issued. You have a serious launch of the construction industry. Instead of the 500 sites you had active during Gilas as leader of that unfortunate alliance, you have about 2,500 active sites in Serbia, correct me minister if I am wrong. That's one serious step when it comes to this thing. Because of all the easier procedures that happened in the meantime, you have fewer cases of illegal construction. To the soul, I can't from some human aspect criticise a part of the people who during that period managed to build their housing facilities and take care of the family and find a minimum of some security for their own family, but the number of these cases as a consequence of all these legal solutions has been reduced to a minimum. For Serbia to know, these cases still exist today and no one can deny it, however, this law that is before us today is in fact a continuation of the fight against this illegal construction. First of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, we will again take a bold step. I must say that, indeed, it is a brave step, because without judicial solutions, we will also approach the destruction of illegally built objects, because we know that these judicial proceedings in the administrative procedure in Serbia last for a few years. Given, Minister, to say that you are making such a brave and reform step, we, as SNS MPs in this distinguished House, have supported such reform and courageous legislative proposals, be assured that we will also support the one that is before us today. I wanted to do one retrospective of everything here so that we wouldn't hide it in Serbia with some kind of cloak, what it is that led to this situation and what it is that we do to get out of what we didn't do with our own guilt. I will also touch on this proposal for a law on construction products, simply, briefly, I think that no well-intentioned man, nor an MP in Serbia, can be against things being arranged in any area of life, including this one. This is the first time, the law I've talked about is a sequel, and this is the first time we've ever done this area when it comes to this construction sector. We determine some minimum quality and standardisation of construction materials from which we are all building our own facilities today. It will, above all, benefit Serbian citizens who will build their facilities or traffic real estate. They will know what the quality of these facilities they buy, how and what materials they are built and what materials they will have, let me say, some minimum ecological ones will meet some minimum economic standards. As for the economy, I think that effect is unequivocal. This, above all, will contribute to that healthy part of the economy that comes from the principles of sound competition, a healthy competition, will open a new door to large European markets, where these standards are a condition and where these standards apply today, which you are proposing to us Members of the public through this legislative proposal. So, in short, these two laws, I've looked back on everything we've had in the past, what you've been doing since 2014 especially to this day. Let me tell you once again, given that this is about bold steps, what Serbia needed all these decades ago, we from the SNS will support these two, but also other legislative proposals that are before us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46401	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46402	Thank you for your opinion and your comments on the laws. I would just like to add as information, that during Dragan Gilas there were some 300 sites in Belgrade, and on the territory of the Republic of Serbia something under 500 sites. In 2015, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/35 and (EU) 2015/35. 12,000, 2016, 16,000 construction sites, 2017, 20,000 sites, September 2018, 33,249 sites active in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, nearly 5,000 construction sites on Belgrade's territory. These are the results of the work you see.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46403	The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46404	Thank you. I would like to point out at the very beginning that the United Serbia will support all proposed laws on the agenda of today's sittings. Mrs. Mihajlović, in your presentation yesterday, we could hear that there is a brand-new draft law in the field of construction products on the agenda. What is important about this bill is that it regulates the market for construction products and raises the level of quality of materials used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other buildings, and also achieves more favourable prices for investors due to competition among producers. I think the new law will contribute to making domestic producers more competitive on the European market, as the same standards will apply in Serbia, as in other EU Member States. Now that we say that European standards will apply, that means that they categorize the product, but that the state should determine which product is quality and which is not for use. Quality control should be serious and know what is required of certificates and I have no doubt that it will be so and that inspectors will punish all those who do not respect the degree of quality of goods prescribed by law, because the safety of our citizens is the most important. On the other hand, the new regulations will give additional incentive to the development of construction and allow building facilities to be primarily safe and environmentally acceptable, protecting people's lives and health. The countries in our environment have already passed this law, and as an illustration, how important it is, I will provide data that, for example, Slovenia, after harmonising its law with European standards, only in the area of concrete and concrete production in the period from 2002 to 2006, has increased the number of companies in this area by 7%, and the revenue from the sale of Slovenian companies' products on the territory of Europe has increased by as much as 80%. This bill is also a prerequisite for access to the international market, but also opens access to the EU market. There are about 500 million consumers on the market, which we from JS view as a good opportunity for domestic producers to improve their production for a large market that they can operate on. As regards the draft air traffic law, which was adopted in 2015, the paper proposed by these amendments and additions, brings plans to build the airports themselves in accordance with new standards. I simply cannot, as a letter coming from the King, take advantage of the opportunity, when I am already talking about the construction of the airport, to remind you how important it is, not only for the King, but also for the whole of Raška, the Moravik and the Shumadian district, that the airport "Mova" in the Ships is put into operation. The airport primarily has a huge impact on improving the economic picture of these districts, opening up the possibility for investors to see that part of Serbia as a more favourable place to open factories. For example, in the Kingdom, the construction of two large factories, which will be employed by 7,500 people by 2023 and I believe that the opening of this airport will make their business much easier. What is also of paramount importance, but above all urgency, is the beginning of the construction of the Moravia Corridor. It is an area from Pojata to Preljina, where 500 thousand people live and operate as many as 25,000 companies. You can imagine how much better and faster connections will mean to both citizens and businesses, and it is also clear that it is crucial for every potential investor to be close to the highway and airport, something that determines where to raise the factory. Opening the airport and building the Moravski Corridor would circle the picture of the economic and economic progress of that part of Serbia. When I talk about the draft law on the law on the law of objects, it should be pointed out that they will allow for much faster and more effective removal of illegal objects, as well as for preventing traffic, i.e. the sale of objects that do not have a final solution to legalisation. The problem of illegal construction itself exists a few decades ago and the efforts of both the government and your ministry themselves to get in the way of this problem is enormous. There are currently about two million illegal facilities in Serbia, and all services are involved in the legalisation process, but I think more should be done primarily to raise awareness of citizens and appeal to enter into the process of legalising their facilities as soon as possible. The aim of this bill is for the legalisation process to be faster, simpler, more efficient and that is most important for Serbian citizens. In the end, I will repeat that JS will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46405	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46406	Thank you, Chairman. Before I begin the presentation, I would just like to ask you personally, since there are two Natasa Jovanovic, MPs here, you call me Natasha St. Jovanovic or Natasa, Stanoje, Jovanovic, because I come into a very unpleasant situation, because there are some colleagues who have two last names, so you call each other. Therefore, I think Natasa Jovanovic, since there are two Natasha Jovanovics, I insist...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46407	But there's only one in the O.R. Right now, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46408	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected vice presidents, many criticise you but without real arguments because everything the ministry does is transparent because it is about construction projects and infrastructures that are immediately visible and usable. Construction is one of the most important industries and provides facilities, infrastructure for all economic and social categories. It's a huge area that covers your ministry and some would say it's a man's job, but I disagree. Women are by their nature, giving more attention to details, organization, self-discipline and certainly empathy and female intuition in business is not negligible. So your ministry is in the right sense in the part of gender equality. The laws ahead of us are very modern and they are all aimed at removing observed irregularities in practice, and on the other hand they are in line with EU laws because the EU countries have coordinated, they have done a lot of harmonisation before us, and they are far more economically developed. Coordination in the area, for example, construction products have worked and all the countries in our environment. In Serbia, for example, there is a seat. Western Balkan transport communities, the headquarters of the infrastructure and traffic association under the 16+1 mechanism and the project participant one belt. The main goal is to improve integration in the region and reduce non-physical barriers in order to increase the flow of goods and people, because that means investment, that means jobs, better lives of citizens, and that means sustainable development. Serbia is trying to co-operate with everyone, although it resents it, anyone who can contribute to the country's rapid recovery and progress, because the only interest is the well-being of Serbian citizens. For example, Russian credit has been invested in modernising railway corridor 10's stock and bar tracks, and new projects are planned to include construction of a new dispatch centre, continuation of railway reconstruction, electrical works on Stara Pazova-Novi Sad's shares, then part of the Belgrade-Budapest rapid track. The minister had a meeting with representatives of the World Bank in Serbia that, in addition to building Corridor 10, rebuilding the road network, reforming the construction licenses sector, and it is very important to reform the Serbian Roads for the sake of efficient business and clear definition of obligations and responsibilities in better maintenance of the road network. It is also important that Serbian citizens know that World Bank representative Carla Gonzales Karvadzal praised the results of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, noting that Serbia is a model for countries in the region to turn challenges from opportunity to progress. Many of my colleagues have talked a lot about the laws, I fully agree with them, so I wanted to form my exposure in a slightly different way since we're already at the end of this long day, so I want the citizens to know that it's the World Bank, for example. as a very important organisation, it is not negligible what she recommended and told us that we can count on their support and assistance to Serbia towards the EU. At the beginning of my presentation, I mentioned gender equality and this was also discussed at a meeting with the World Bank, how to include gender equality in the transport sector because women are a very important part of the economic development of each country and that women's mobility and access to the transport sector must be provided. There are ten laws in the field of construction and traffic, amendments to the Law on the Law on the Law on Law of Objects and Planning and Construction, Building Inspectors and Local Self-Government, new opportunities for an even more effective fight against irresponsible and arrogant investors who build without permission and try to make money break the law. For example, in the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, an insurance policy is necessary for damage to the environment. We had environmental laws here last week, and this is an example and proof that our entire government is working in one and the same goal of protecting the environment and harmonising its laws with the same goal. Earlier, we had very important and very reform laws from your ministry that we supported. One of them is certainly the House Bill. All I have to do here is underline that it's very important to control. In the voting day, I will support all the proposed laws because I believe that they are high-quality and I thank the ministry team that has made preparations for this session so that we MPs are adequately familiar with a large number of laws. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46409	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not here. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46410	Thank you, Chairman. I must say that the Law on Planning and Construction, which we passed three years ago, was definitely a turning point in attracting investment in our country. Therefore, since the adoption of that law, it has been sufficient time for the previous legal provisions to be tested in practice and to conclude in which direction changes and additions of laws should be made in order to further define, improve, or improve and provide for new solutions. The need to establish necessary legal and economic mechanisms over a short period of time to attract private investments that involve building facilities that will contribute to the creation of new jobs both in construction and in other areas, resulting in the strengthening of overall economic activity. Our President Aleksandar Vukic is investing enormous work and energy to create with the Government of the Republic of Serbia a better investment climate that attracts foreign and direct investment and is one of the priorities of our economic policy. Unfortunately, during the government run by the DS economy, Serbia was destroyed and the country was destroyed, citizens lost their jobs, no bread, no hope and no perspective. Much has been done for the past four years, and we are aware that our country cannot be richer, but it can certainly be more orderly and just and new laws and changes and additions of the existing ones are passed to that end. The amendments and additions to this law address several problems that have arisen in practice and, among other things, allow for faster and more efficient adoption of amendments to the planning documents and their exchange in digital and electronic form in the model of implementation of a unified procedure and for investors to be able to obtain works more easily and more effectively, with less costs, thereby further increasing investment in the area of construction. For Serbia, investment is the basis for economic growth, technological progress, competitiveness and exports of employment and income. It is absolutely certain that the new provisions will introduce preparatory work and, in order to ensure smooth implementation, large infrastructure projects and create a legal framework that will further encourage organised and controlled construction. I can freely say that this is a strategically important document for Serbia aimed at improving business conditions for investors who want to build in Serbia, which will lead to an increase in the participation of construction in GDP, then an increase in overall economic growth, an improvement in the competitiveness of Serbia's economy and the creation of new jobs. The proposed solutions will also have a direct effect on investors, companies, entrepreneurs, as well as on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. I must stress that this law is extremely complex and it is necessary to further define and regulate certain areas in order to benefit in the future in terms of additional cost reduction of procedures, then save time needed to obtain permits, more efficient work by state authorities, which will result in a reduction in the price of built-up facilities. Taking into account the comprehensive effects of this SNS law, the opinion is that it should be adopted because it provides assumptions for its application. The second law I have prepared is the Law on Changes and Supplements on Road Safety, but I will not discuss it in order to give other colleagues time to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46411	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. He's not here. The word is by MP Bosko Obradovic, another 45 seconds of remaining time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46412	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to conclude at the end of this debate that yesterday's meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was interrupted by the chairman when we asked a series of questions from the Minister of Wild Construction in Serbia and what she did for six years by the SNS authorities to stop wild construction, and especially the symbol of wild construction at the top of the Copalniks behind which SNS criminals directly stand. On the other hand, counterpart Vesovic today has asked a number of competitive questions from the minister, she has also been silent, and the only thing they can do is attack an honorary building inspector who has been retired for four years. I wonder, since Milisav Obradovic has retired for four years as a construction inspector in Cačka, who now provides wild construction in Cačka, behind which Mayor Cačka Milun Todorovic stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46413	The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46414	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I'm kind of always pleased when your laws come to the Assembly, and I'm glad because I can talk a lot about how important projects are being built in central Serbia, especially in the city from which I come, in the town of Cačka, how much is being built in the last few years. At the time of the government of Aleksandar Vukic, at a time when Aleksandar Vukic is president of Serbia, and at the same time, to say how much was not being built and how devastated Cačak was at a time when the Alliance for Serbia was in power. Of course, when we talk about all these investments, what I have said many times, I will now repeat and always repeat, by 2012, not one single kilometer of highway was built in central Serbia. Now, thanks to Corridor 11, which is largely built by the sea corridor, whose construction will soon begin, we can expect the town of Cačak and central Serbia to become a hub of highways, which for the future of this part of Serbia is of incomprehensible importance. Those who ask us why the late Moravia corridor, why it wasn't built before, can ask their colleagues from the Alliance for Serbia why he was 12 years late, not only the Moravia Corridor, but also Corridor 11, and all other corridors in the part of Serbia where I live and where my colleagues live, so in central Serbia. When it comes to the Law on Law of Objects, it is clear that the Government of 2015, when this law was passed, was the first government to fight seriously with the problem of illegal construction, and that we had absolutely no activity in the field before. The predecessors, the question of whether they could only count all illegally built objects, let alone do something about it. In that sense, I consider these changes to be very good because practice has shown that there are certain problems when illegal objects do not crash immediately and when they are traded, and when families move into certain buildings with children. Practice has shown that it is difficult to react in such situations. Right, these changes should allow this law to be more effective. We tried to count all illegal objects in Cačka, and it was very difficult for us and we got to these 95 thousand illegal objects, and what was interesting is that most of these objects were built at a time when Milisav Obradovic was the head of all inspections in the town of Cačka. I don't know what hurts individuals, when it's true, and especially those individuals who would like to lecture us today on illegal objects and tell us about what's been built, to mention the first, family members. Since my family was mentioned yesterday too, I would just like to say that I would be happy if most of those 95 thousand illegal objects at the time of Milisav Obradovic had been supporting walls and protective bedsides, we wouldn't have had those disasters from 2014 and 2016, if someone had thought of prevention. But it was mostly buildings, apartments, everything that could be traded with. Today there is no need for this, for the simple reason that a building permit can be obtained in 28 days, it sometimes took you a few months or a few years to get to the building permit. Speaking of all investments, I would like to show you what the Alliance for Serbia is offering today to our citizens, and this is best seen on the Dragachev case. Since they could not offer any investment for 12 years, they are offering citizens of Dragacheva, believe it or not, soap with the Union for Serbia's logo, here it writes nicely, the Alliance for Serbia of Dragacheva, for a gift to the citizens of Dragacheva. Except I still advise them to apply this soap to themselves, first give it to Željko Veseninović and then to Srdjana Nogo. I'm just not sure there's any soap that can wash them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46415	Thank you. Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46416	Thank you, Chairman. I think this is correct on your part and it's my turn to say it. In fact, for two days now, there's been a defamation of an honorable man who retired four years ago without having had a single spot in his career, what the whole town of Chachak knows about. The whole town of Cačak laughed when Velimir Ilic, in his time as coalition partner of Aleksandra Vukic, attacked my father and miraculously insulted him and invented him, speaking of some kind of corruption in his work. Just now, Milisav Obradovic was the inspector with the most submitted orders for the destruction of illegal facilities in the town of Cačka, and I explained why these facilities were not destroyed. Because you don't get police assistance, because the court rules as it suits local tycoons and politicians, and because the city administration won't allocate funds to destroy illegally built objects. The construction inspector, the citizens of Serbia, should know, is powerless, powerless to bring down an illegal facility if it does not receive assistance from the court, police and city administration. So, in this situation, you have an honorable and honest city inspector, who everyone in the town of Cačka knows was just the strictest law-respector and opponent of illegal construction, so that someone here for two days and years back would drag him out, and that there was no court ruling, that there was no evidence, that everything rested on faith, what Velimir Ilic said. People, the man who lied to everything he ever said in his life. After all, did this same Velimir Ilic not recently speak of Alexander Vukic and Andrej Vukic as the greatest criminals, so that we trust Velimir Ilic to be right, that Aleksandar Vukic and Andrej Vukic are the greatest criminals. And you can't respect what Velimir Ilic says once, in the case of Father Bosko Obradovic, and when he talks about Alexander and Andrej Vukic, then Velimir Ilic lies. Well, when does Velimir Ilic lie? Make up your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46417	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, replica. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46418	I don't know when the Alliance for Serbia co-ordinator, 2013 was lying when Velimir Ilic, by the way, made a statement about the city's urban inspection problem in Cačka that year. Mr. Coordinator told me about his current boss. "Dear Gilas entered the business with the media during the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, when it could, or foreign agents, such as his partner from the beginning of B92, Veran Matic, or reliable people of the Milosevic married couple, such as Slavko Curuvija, or Željko Mitrovica, who later changed sides. It is unknown what he did and what he did until 2004 did not become a member of the DS, since then his companies' profits have increased rapidly several hundred times and in a few years they become millionaires. Gilas's greatest fortune has been curbed by reselling advertising seconds to RTS, hiring his service companies in Belgrade's city administrations, whose mayor, by obtaining state-owned companies' clients under the control of DS, or by foreign firms who have previously been granted privileged business, or robbery privatisation in Serbia, all representing an unrecorded kind of media monopoly. “ That’s what Mr. Coordinator said about his current boss, Dragan Gilas. As for family reference, this is what freedom of the media in Serbia looks like. This is the front page of today's NIN, (showing the weekly) where in the most brutal way possible the father of Nebojsa Stefanovic, Branko Stefanovic, would be clear to Mr. Coordinator who has opposed the American ambassador here, on the last page of the NIN, you have tweets, Mrs. Jelena Stevovic, who says: "You are not here to correct journalists, but to answer questions," Wucic, the American Ambassador Scott, kicked. That is the answer to all those who claimed that Aleksandar Vukic did not respond to Ambassador Scott's statement that Kosovo is not so-called. a state, but a real sovereign state. Otherwise, Mr. Coordinator should also know that his great friend is the US ambassador, two days ago... (President: Bringing the end. ) Here, I conclude, Mr. Arsic, visited the city board of DS in Vrsac, and at that time he presented to the city board DS, his coalition partner, the book "Americans, History in Art", and the top Democrats presented to his ambassador's exhibition a collection of famous painters and multimedia artist Zivko Grosdanić Gere, "Gerikature".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46419	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, I point out this, but I appreciate your permissiveness because you gave your colleague Obradovic your word, no matter what nobody mentioned to his party or his MP group or himself. Your discretionary right, according to the 3rd point, was yours, and you gave him your word, but in doing so, he made several false statements, injure the dignity of the National Assembly. So the official data suggests the following, that the inspector and chief of Inspector Obradovic had 44,950 listed objects in the catastra and had 95,326 unlisted objects. So not every third one was registered. So much for honor, honesty, morality, etc. I appreciate your permissiveness to allow the freedom of the choir and the speech. It is that they do not appear, only appear when they have something to say, although in the National Assembly this same colleague Obradovic tells the opposition representative – you cannot speak, go outside. So much for their democracy, so much for their justice, so much for their democracy, so much for their honesty. In the end, I noticed something. I noticed that this construction inspector retired four years ago. No more wild construction in Chačka.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46421	counterpart Risticevic, a colleague of Obradovic, was granted the right to reply to the mention of MPs from his parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the People, Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46422	The Honored Chairman, Member of 107th Dignity, insults the family of President Aleksandar Vukic and the failure of the truth by the coordinator, who last night with the uncrupulous King against the construction of Milan Stamatovic in Novi Varoša scattered economic and patriotic demagogy. Why, then, did they not say and explain that Milan Stamatovic, otherwise a metallostrugar, as the president of the municipality, authorised himself to be the head of the municipal administration, and as such signed the location conditions for 1000 squares of construction of similar people in Zlatibor? Did he explain to his alliance colleague that I don't know what to the citizens that he doesn't remember when a public procurement procedure was conducted on Zlatibor? Did he explain that hundreds of millions of non-intentionary spending dinars were spent by his colleague, who assured Novovaroshane of their honesty last night, according to a report by the state auditor, and passed with the opportunite. We can't comment, we can't be surprised. He says, if we did it, why don't you arrest us? Well, it's not our prosecution. The last one they flirted with, and the last one with the prosecution they did, and, uh, the check, when it comes to the prosecution, let's see how he reacts, but somehow we forget what he thinks about his man threatening to hang the president of Serbia and the Prime Minister. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46423	You don't have the right to a replica. (Alexander Martinovic: He's right, he's the head of the entire opposition. ) Well, he is not the head of the entire opposition, counterpart Martinovic. They're not registered yet. I know what MPs are. He quoted one of your articles in no negative context. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46424	Dear Vice President, Mr Arsic, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected minister with associates, I am pleased, dear minister, that you are very often here among us in this high House of the National Assembly. It speaks of your dedicated work, but also of your associates and of your dedication. So don't worry that these two days you've been the target of insult, because those who insulted you know nothing more than to insult you. They have no idea and no programs. You see how they attack our President Alexander Vukic on a daily basis, just because he leaves great victories behind? I note that he's being attacked by just the ones who would give faith for dinner. MP Dveri Srdjan Nogo, the respected citizens of Serbia, called for the brutal murder of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. He accused the prime minister of being a Croatian spy to hang in the middle of Theazi and added, and I quote - and then it should be done to the president of the state, Alexander Vukic. Honorable Serbian lawyers and lawyers, can you believe this is pronounced by one lawyer and one lawyer? Well, no wonder it belongs to a fascist organisation that cherishes Ljotic, Ljotic's heritage and never gave it up. Take a look at the second National MP, Djorđa Vukadinović, called Vlach, who is 17.10. In 2018, in 16 hours and one second, he said: "Marian Risticevic is a peasant and is to sit in front of a village bar and drink beer, not to sit in parliament." In doing so, he humiliated not only the honourable MP Marijan Rističević, who is one of the most active and regular in this high house, but also insulted all farmers and our peasants. I call on him, if there is little courage, let him apologize not only to Marijana Risticevic but to all our peasants throughout Serbia. Dear People's MPs, just a few sentences about the Law of Law. Under this bill of law on the law of non-legislative objects because they do not comply with the conditions laid down in the law, they will be able to collapse immediately after the second-degree decision, this is important, that is, on the basis of finality, they will no longer have to wait for the outcome of a possible administrative dispute and this is very important and it is very important. The state is now taking the risk of damages in case the administrative court resolves the opposite, however, and according to a new proposal, according to new provisions, and the owner of a plot on which an illegal facility is built will be responsible for illegal construction and this is very important. The Honored citizens of Serbia, this alliance for the second robbery of Serbia, called the Alliance of Change, was the first when they were in DOS, in which they were sitting Dragan Djilas, called the Điki Mafia, Vuk Jeremic, known as the Vuk descendant, Bosko Obradović, in a people called Lupeti, Janko Veseinović, called Janko Stanocrat, stole the apartment in Obrovica Milji in Braće Kurjakovića 7, Đorđe Vukadinović, in a people known as Đorđe Vlah, Saša Radulović, known as the King of Squats, Boris Tadic, called Lipicaner, Balša Žaljavić, called the Gosar of Maldiv, went to fly there, Saša Janković, called Sale prangia, killed a man in his apartment, or meaning to the town of the town of Žovana, the town of Žovana, the town of Žovana, and the town of Žalić. They pumped, respected citizens, 51 billion euros from the country. They destroyed our past. They destroyed our present. They destroyed our children's future, and if they had stayed in power for just a year, they would have destroyed our roots. And here they are again, gathered together in an alliance for another Serbian robbery. They are back in the alliance, which is an alliance of con artists, liars, thief, luftiguza, and as my colleague Risticevic says, cheats, peljasanovic and Mutibaric. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of the law. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46425	On what grounds, my colleague? (Bosko Obradović: After three. Three at a time? (Bosko Obradovic: He mentioned Bosko Obradović's MP, and Djorđe Vukadinovic also... ) Here, Bosko Obradović signed up first.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46426	Thank you, Chairman. So, as far as the United States is concerned, I don't think there's any bigger friends, the ones who bombed us, than the current president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who hugged Bill Clinton so well, the war criminal, at the Bill Clinton Foundation meeting, but I don't, everyone knows how much he loves all the war criminals, from Tony Blair to Bill Clinton. The following question is more important here – how are you in the mood to be against the former regime, and recently for the president of the Majdanpek municipality, Mr Popovic, in two mandates of the municipality of Majdanpek of the Democratic Party, was then a thief and a criminal, and now that he has turned into your ranks, he is now the best candidate for the president of the municipality and you, as a Serbian Progressive Party, have appointed him president of the municipality. That's your problem with Dragan Gilas, too. If Dragan Gilas had agreed to become Vucic's Deputy Prime Minister, he would have been the world's greatest economist today. And when he refused to be with you in the Serbian Progressive Party and did not agree to be Goran Vesic, then, of course, everything else you mention is. So every yellow, so-called. The yellow, whom you accuse of being a criminal and a thief, is great when it goes to the ranks of the Serbian Progressive Party and then gives it an abolization for all the thief – Goran Vesic, Sinisa Mali, the new president of the Majdanpek municipality. Key thing – Srdian Nogo. Why don't you mention to the Serbian citizens what Srdjan Nogo told Srdjan Nogo about in that show that you accuse him and falsely convey his opinion – about the migrant crisis and the consequences of wanting to bring hundreds of thousands of migrants into Serbia as a condition for Serbia to enter the European Union. That was the darkness. And if I had fenced myself publicly from that statement, I would have been at the conference.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46427	Because of the dignity of the National Assembly, I am not interested in the reasons, absolutely. So every man has a right to his own attitude. Here was the word, don't justify that statement, not at all, not here, not at least when I chair, that if anyone does anything, they should be hanged in public on the terraces. It has never happened that any MP has said in these 16-17 years, as far as I'm concerned with politics. It never happened. He was threatened with arrest, threatened with one, threatened with one. And it's for conviction. But murder -- no, never. (Bosko Obradovic: If you'd let me finish, you'd have heard. You said we misread it. No, we interpreted it as said. And please, for that matter, leave the congregation alone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46428	As early as this morning, at a press conference in Chačka, I was publicly fenced by MP Dvora Srdjan Nog's statement and said his words were inappropriate and inappropriate, but the theme of the migrant crisis is important and that you cannot hide the truth from Serbian citizens that you intend to settle Serbia with migrants and empty Serbian villages to migrants. That's a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46429	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. (Marian Risticevic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're not going to run, as the professor of literature says, and we're not going to be late, so we're going to advertise this violation of the Rules of Procedure in time. It's easy to fence from the Nog. Come on, let's fence up from Gilas. Come on, let's fence up. Bosko Obradovic says -- at the same time, I call on the honorary officers of the Serbian Army and the MUP to arrest the president of Serbia. It's an invitation to the coup. Penalty to the Criminal Code, Article 309. (Bosko Obradovic: That's right, I stand behind those words. ) The truth is, we are not signatories of the Dublin document. So it doesn't apply to us. This applies to EU countries, Switzerland, Norway and Liechtenstein, as I recall. So, it's quite a fictional piece of information. I will not defend Europe against migrants. They let them, along with the friends who pushed these into parliament, they destroyed their countries, not me. I have compassion for these migrants, but certainly Serbia will not be a country for migrants, nor has Serbia signed it. But let him fence up a little bit of his statement. Let's get some of Gilas fenced up. They're talking about freedom of the media, and they're asking for media to be banned. He sits with those who banned "National", then leading a list in Serbia. They banned, I think, a few more magazines – the breaking up of Podgorica's "Day". Yeah, those current friends of his got into BK TV and banned it, with long pipes. It's those who advocate freedom of the media. It's those who advocate the elimination of reality. Here you have Pejo D Boyce, B 92, a show by Dragan Gilas and his company, here you've been disfigured by that man, with a "student", or, as they called it, "take out the fool". When the pioneer town was to be taken, kidnapped the children, to make Gilas money, then it could.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46431	Comrade Rističević, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46432	Then they weren't for banning reality. Who are you with? You're with him. Who you're with – you're like this and that's why Bosko Obradović needs... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46433	Gjorge Vukadinovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46434	Thank you. It's just, I don't know what to say before, since Honorable colleague Atlagic managed to express a bunch of material inaccuracies, easily verifiable inaccuracies and inaccuracies about my smallness, and probably in relation to everything else he talked about, which he usually does and on the way to make so many fouls that the chairman could always interrupt him, given the way he qualified people, give them imaginary nicknames and names, etc. Then it's called to some as media or some unnamed sources, which I don't know when, who they called. You know how we could quote here what they call, not Mr. Atlagic, but let's say your president, what he calls himself in some other media and social media, but of course we won't do that. He misread me twice, or interpreted me, quoting this record. We can listen to the video, I never would have, but for another reason, I offended his colleague and roommate here in the Assembly by calling him a peasant. I think it would be an insult to the peasants. It was precisely that the whole point of my address and my interventions was that the speaker in question was constantly calling for the dignity of the Assembly, and in fact it was an insult to the dignity of the Assembly and every institution in which he sat, he was covering behind the peasants, he was covering behind the honorable name of the peasants. There are a lot of farmers here, Mr. Arsic, a lot of farmers, people who are from villages or live on agriculture. None of them, so they honor their duty, only one exists, only one exists who abuses it as there is one in front of the assembly that is constantly making noises for families of victims of Kosovo's violence and terror in Kosovo in 1999, and so there is one in the Assembly that is constantly defending itself... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46435	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46436	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been brutally trampled here. The gentleman who is little Vlah a little Serb, little DSS a little NS, little Gilas little Jeremic, ask God more what, is in the most brutal way possible offended Marijan Risticevic by saying that the shame for every institution in which a man like Marijan Risticevic sits. Well, aside from the fact that he doesn't seem to know what the word roommate means, a roommate is someone you share a room with. As far as I know, Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic don't share a room. Perhaps Mr. Vlah shares a room with Boris Tadic, as Marian showed some photographs where Boris Tadic and Mr. Vlah are in such close physical relations. But I think that this attack in the most brutal way possible in the person of a national MP you had to condemn and stop, as you had to react to his adjudication to Mr Simu Spasic, who leads the Serb families who have been killed on KIM. Brother Sima Spasic was kidnapped by Cypriot terrorists at KIM in 1998. Simo Spasic opened a memorial room for Serb victims in KIM who were killed by the hands of Cypriot terrorists, and Mr Vukadinovic forgot that a party on whose list he was elected MP in 2001 had released hundreds of Cypriot terrorists who were convicted of terrorism from 1998 to 2000, and is now hiding behind this Rules of Procedure and pretending to be ignorant. The same Gjorge Vikadinovic, who now points to his finger, I'd like to get up, so you can see how he's dressed again, as if he's come to the bar. He pulled his shirt over his pants and he's giving lessons to someone about the dignity of the National Assembly. The same Gjorge Vukadinovic robbed the National Lottery of Serbia by 2.5m euros, and he never filled out that gambling happiness, and now such people gathered around Dragan Gilas are giving us moral lessons. We're here, Mr. Arsic, facing a very strange phenomenon. When someone mentions SNS, then they can either react to me or they can react to fellow Orlic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group. Here when Gilas is mentioned, apart from the parliamentary group here in one opposition group, everyone can react, or one man can react on behalf of everyone, if you mention Vuk Jeremic can react to the co-ordinator, if you mention Boris Tadic, if you mention DS responds to the coordinator, if you mention Dusan Petrovic reacts to the coordinator. Well, they have a hundred times more rights than we do, even though they won a hundred times less votes in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46437	My colleague Martinovic, they're trying, we can't... (Alexander Martinovic: Let's get up to be seen by people. A colleague of Martinovic's, so there's no need. I have to correct you, only from the Zabel Penitentiary Correction Office has 1,247 Shyptarian terrorists released. It's just for the public's sake. And I ask my fellow MPs to adjust their discussions and not insult them anymore. So every MP elected in the election, you can't tell him there's a disgrace in the National Assembly, and that's where I totally agree with my colleague Martinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. In 108 and 109, while still respecting your tolerance, I hope you will give a warning to one George Vukadinovic. But let's get started on the insults. He says I insult him for showing these photos. I say the photos aren't photo montage. I claim here that he and Boris Tadic are next to each other. You can see that in the photos. If I've offended him for taking pictures like that, that's his problem. I don't see that insult. Here is the contract with the "Lutria of Serbia" at 2,400,000. I claimed he was a lucky winner without playing games. I also claimed he was on the Vlach National Minority List. Is it or isn't it? Are you a musician or not a musician? And he said to me that I should plow the land, here, there are the gentlemen of the Ministry, and I'm sitting outside the store with the peasants to drink beer. I answered that, no matter what it is an insult to all peasants, Mr. Martinovic, it is an insult to all peasants, it means that they sit in front of the store, drinking beer, etc. I said it was an honor to be like a peasant in this House, that my father was a peasant, that my grandfather was a peasant, that my grandfather was a peasant, that I never dreamed I'd be in a high house someday. The voters gave me a special honor because I didn't have to change my nationality to be elected to this high house. A special honor was given to me by the voters, and I thank them this way. I thank them from the heart for choosing me five times, and if I hadn't changed my profession, I didn't change the faith or the nation. In the end, I'll be plowing for my country, digging, sowing, planting. He's only used to reading. He doesn't even read, he's used to putting on 2,400,000, which is 240 pensions of peasants, those peasant pensions that are earned by blistering hands, black from sweat and country, 240 pensions he's got all at once, and he's still complaining to me. Well, the founder of the new Serbian state, who has launched the establishment of a new Serbian state, which holds three fingers on the right as it enters the Assembly, will once put a hand on the head of the stone for insulting peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46439	Thank you. I'm now setting a break, in accordance with Article 112, for five minutes. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46441	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to congratulate you, above all, on behalf of the SNS, that you have managed to build a country of cranes, cranes and construction sites from the country that was almost on the edge of bankruptcy in 2012. The state of Serbia today is synonym for construction, whether roads, highways, railways, apartments, bridges, hospitals or bus and railway stations or airports. Also, I congratulate you for making the state of Serbia today an absolute leader in the region when it comes to foreign investors. I congratulate you that you have managed to employ nearly 180,000 people and thus the unemployment rate which in 2012 was almost 27% down to 11.9%, as it was in the second quarter of 2018 according to official data from the Republic Statistics Office. At this point, I hope the unemployment rate is even lower. Why am I saying this? Because exactly the highest growth in the employment rate is achieved in the area of construction, which is 6.3%, followed by traffic and storage at a rate of 2.9% and at the end of the trade in large and small and repair of motor vehicles at 1.8%. I congratulate you, too, that Serbia's citizens today have the biggest GDP growth in the region, and in Europe among the largest. How important the work of construction confirms the fact that exactly the most significant growth of gross additional value has been achieved in the construction sector, 22.9% for the second quarter of 2018, but also the most significant growth in real gross additional value in the first quarter of the construction sector. You know, when you're an independent state body, i.e. The fiscal council says that you achieved good results in 2018 it is indeed so. It is in the report of the Fiscal Council entitled “Fiscal and Economic Movements in 2018 and Recommendations for the 2019 budget” that is more optimistic than the members of the Fiscal Council, rather than the members of the Government themselves. The fiscal council predicts that in 2019 we will have growth, or surplus in the budget, and that will be the fourth year in a row where the Republic of Serbia will have surpluses in the budget, which has not happened in the last, so to speak freely, 20 years and maybe 30 years. When it comes to public debt and public debt cuts, there are harmonised opinions and members of the Fiscal Council and members of the government, and it is predicted that in 2019 public debt will be fully close to the security zone of GDP, it will be about 50%, which is really fantastic, given that only six years ago the public debt was almost 80% of GDP. It is important for the citizens of Serbia and for the economy that in 2019 we will allocate 28 billion dinars more than in 2018 for infrastructure projects, and for the construction of roads, railways and bridges, so we will allocate a total of 280 billion dinars. When it comes to bill proposals, I can freely say that they are excellent for both citizens and the economy. In particular, the Construction Products Act is good because our legislation and our standards are in line with EU standards, which means that citizens and businesses will also have safer, safer, cheaper and more quality products that are in line with environmental standards, and on the other hand, manufacturers will be able to compete with European producers at both cost and quality of products, which is really great. When it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, they are also good for citizens and for the economy and the purpose of these laws is to fully eliminate the number of illegally built objects, and the greatest benefit of which is the budget and, of course, citizens. Laws in the area of road, rail, air and water traffic are also good and their only goal is to continue the growth of goods, but also the number of passengers transported and in the coming period. I will only provide one information, if we only look at the period from 2013 to 2017, the transport of goods is 300% higher and the number of passengers transported by 60%. Serbian citizens should know that for the first eight months of 2018 alone, we had half a million more passengers transported, observed only air traffic and two Constantin Great international airports in Nis and Nikola Tesla airport in Belgrade, but throughout 2012. So, half a million passengers in 2018 for only the first eight months, but the whole 2012, which is really great. So Serbia today is an absolute leader in the region on a number of grounds, thanks to government measures, stabilised finances, consolidated finances, the largest inflow of foreign direct investment. We were able to agree to increase the lowest price of work per hour in 2019. It is at this point at 143 dinars, and in the following year from 1 January 2019, 155 dinars will be, and the aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia is, in fact, to make the lowest profit in Serbia at the height of the minimum consumer basket, which is currently 36,000 dinars, which has not happened in the last 20 years. Once again, Deputy Prime Ministers, both you and all the members of the government, I congratulate you on the results achieved and I wish you an even greater surplus in the budget, an even greater growth in GDP, and Serbian citizens more salaries and pensions in the future. The SNS parliamentary group will certainly support a set of all legal solutions that are truly excellent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46442	The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46443	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I say anything about the laws, I would just like to read one piece of information that has been on the list of global competitiveness for five places. So Serbia has progressed five places to the Global Competitiveness Index 2018 ranking, taking 65th among the 140 ranked countries. So, according to the analysis of institutional, political, economic and other indicators, Serbia has collected and has a score of 60.9 points, which is 1.7 points better than last year. Let me also point out that of the former Yugoslav countries, only ahead of Serbia is Slovenia, which is 35th in place. Otherwise, all other Croatia, and Macedonia, and BiH, and Montenegro, are ranked lower. So, this Index of Global Competitiveness, although some opposition MPs do not recognise, especially from the Alliance for Change, neither the IMF analysis nor many other analyses, but let me read it one more time. So institutional, political, economic and other indicators have been analysed. Isn't this an indication that this government is doing the best it can and that every year, my colleagues have said, in all these segments that have been analyzed we are progressing, that we are going and that we are leaders in the region? That's what I wanted, here's the information from October 17th. If a list of global competitiveness, a five-place jump doesn't mean anything, then I don't have a word, because I heard some reactions on the opposite side. As for the set of laws that we are discussing today, we have practically a new law here, which is the proposal for a law on construction products, and all these other laws are complemented and amended by the Law on Planning and Construction, Law on Objects, Air Traffic, Transport of Dangerous Goods, not to read. In essence, the Government's analysis within the Ministry found that there are many problems in the functioning and work in these areas that we are considering today amendments to the law. So these amendments to the law came from a desire to fix legal solutions, to improve not only as a letter on paper, but as a result of the problems that existed in the functioning of all these segments that we are considering today. So these amendments to the law represent progress, improvement and resolution of problems in all areas. I always say amendments to the law are something that needs to be life-threatening, because many members of the law when they go into practical implementation can see many irregularities and problems that have not been seen, so that changes improve the law, and thus improve and better regulate the area to which these laws apply. Let me just mention it for the citizens, because I won't take much time to get my colleagues behind me, just so they know this first law is about construction products. A new legal solution, which in a unique way should be done and arranged by the area of construction. Why is that significant? Some colleagues have mentioned, construction is one of the most important business branches because it provides infrastructure facilities for all other business and social categories, as well as to improve employment. This way, on the one hand, we have a legal regulation that we haven't had so far. On the other hand, it is harmonised with the EU and our construction products can be competitive, and this creates positive effects on investors on the appropriate cheaper investments and funds in this area. So the laws that are worthy and that I will surely support in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46444	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46445	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to point out to the public in this short time some very important changes in the Law on the Law on Law of Objects which I believe are the proposed changes and additions to the good and that they should be adopted. First, it was specified that no object that was built after the entry into force of the Law on Law of Law in November 2015 was and cannot be subject to law because the Serbian government firmly stood on the view that new deadlines for the law of objects would not be and that no object that was built without permission after 2015 could be legalised, and wild construction must finally stand in the way. Secondly, because of the abnormal situation that e.g. in Belgrade, according to the Belgrade Public Revenue Secretariat, only 5% of the legal objects pay property tax even though the state has allowed the owners of illegal facilities to cut them down by symbolic taxes. Therefore, it would be normal for everyone to pay a tax on property, and these amendments and additions to the law are obliged to apply as owners of the facilities for which the competent authorities determine that they can be legal, to apply for the determination of the property tax as a condition for continuing the conduct of the procedure. Third, by introducing an obligation to verify the mandatory visibility on the 2015 satellite recording for all objects that are legalised and prevent abuses in the sense of falsification of dated applications. It is very important for citizens because they can make their own insight into the satellite footage of the law enforcement authorities, the building inspectors or the immovable cadastre services, and then make a personal decision on whether to engage in the adventure of buying apartments built after 2015 without the necessary permits. Next, as one of the most important changes in the new law and the most important measure for stopping illegal construction and preventing abuse, I stress the possibility that non-legislative objects, because they do not usually meet legal requirements, because they are located on public areas or no-building zones, are being destroyed after a second-degree decision, i.e. Decisions on the appeal. There is no longer any need to await the outcome of a possible administrative dispute resorted to by illegal investors as a way of delaying the solution for a few more years as to how long administrative proceedings would take, while illegal investors would be able to complete the lawless construction of buildings, sell apartments and move them into fraud and further complicate the execution of the administrative court's solution. It is true that the state is now taking the risk of damages in the event that the administrative court solves the opposite, and it is possible to do so, but the state is now reaching the possibility that those worst cases of illegal construction on public surfaces or in construction-free zones, such as those. Airport zone, take down immediately after the final solution. The following is introduced to ensure that citizens are further protected from fraud against illegal investors, the public records of all the legal procedures in the public register are made. Catastro. So all citizens can be aware of whether the building in which they want to buy an apartment is open to the legal process and that these data are publicly available to them. Given that there are currently around 270,000 legalization cases in Belgrade alone, over 75% of which are up to 200 m2. It is also good that the city of Belgrade has been given the opportunity to entrust part of the city's municipalities business and thus speed up the completion of the legislation that must be completed within five years for all of you to begin the proceedings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46446	Thank you. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46447	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, we have a set of very important draft laws ahead of us, and I will look back at the proposal for a bill on the transport of passengers in road traffic. The amendments are contained in the provisions concerning taxi transport and since local self-governments have unwarrantedly prescribed very different conditions for the operation of taxis and have applied different powers relating to the issue of ‘TX’ tables certain problems have arisen in practice. The biggest consequence is, in fact, the intense occurrence of illegal carrying out taxis in terms of a huge number of persons carrying out taxis without the prescribed approval. By eliminating the occurrence of unauthorized public transport of passengers, unfair competition, as well as the suppression of other negative phenomena in the public transport of road passengers, this activity will be adequately arranged. Also, an increasingly frequent phenomenon has been established that entities registered as service providers are renting a vehicle with a driver, so-called. Limo service actually does not perform that service, but performs public transport. The taxi associations and trade unions responded to this phenomenon, and this law defines Limo service as public transport and provides conditions for the exercise of this activity, as well as sanctions for illegal work. In order to ensure adequate control of law enforcement, other than republican, municipal and city inspection, powers to exercise control have also been given to the municipal police. The rights and duties of inspectors have also been extended during the inspection procedure, and in addition to the above, the proposal also defines sanctions for persons who, through the installation and advertising of electronic applications for the performance of taxis, carry out this activity and who do not have the appropriate authorisation. All these solutions were created with one goal, which is to significantly reduce the grey economy in the area of passenger transport. Therefore, the point is that it will not be allowed to show up in the area of passenger transport companies that do not have the appropriate approval, not to prohibit competition. It is very important for the safety of traffic, as well as for the safety of users of public and taxi services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46448	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46449	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the honourable minister, respected citizens, what I wanted to conclude in principle when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction is once again that relationship with the profession. We disagree with the fact that the Engineering Chamber is completely kidnapped, put aside, that 28,400 engineers are actually being punished for the failure of the ministry that you are leading in the case of the largest and most vital projects in the Republic of Serbia, such as Corridor 10 and that of the famous collapse of the supporting wall in the Gredile ravine. What is important for citizens is that this is another message that those with the greatest knowledge, those who have built everything in this country and those who have built everything in the former Yugoslavia, are being punished in some way, because SNS and this government want to control absolutely every segment of this society. Professional associations that have been independent so far, such as Serbia's Engineering Chamber, will be fully dependent on the political will of those who run the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is SNS. The name - the licensee is already talking about a kind of blackmail, political blackmail to those engineers who have that license so far. How will elections be held in Serbia's Engineering Chamber, which the SNS could not beat, here, but how many years in a row? Will each of the engineers now have to vote as the party headquarters says, and in that case will they be left with a license, or will they be taken away from those who do not think as SNS or as, in this case, you who run that ministry? What's very important is that this law allows wild construction. And not only the wild construction that has been going on since 2012, but the wild construction in the sense that many buildings in Belgrade that already exist, which are being renovated or reconstructed, will be able to change completely. The law allows SNS in Belgrade to change Belgrade's appearance. A Serbian advanced party in municipalities and cities across Serbia to change the appearance of municipalities and cities. That's what's wrong, because, like Beograd on Water, the whole of Serbia will now become one big "Belgrade on Water". We think it is very bad when the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Expropriation Act, are bypassed in this way. Now you can say for yourself, as you wish, what is the public interest and that someone's plot, someone's house, someone's property, you take away completely, and that way you say, no, this is where the object of public purpose has to go. So, a very bad law, a law that introduces legal uncertainty and a law that is still a bad situation in the Republic of Serbia, and when it comes to citizens' lives, it absolutely continues to exist. What is important in the end is that we will vote against this law, we will try to amend this original intention of the ministry and you personally, and I end up, the last sentence, we will try to protect every citizen of Serbia who has a problem when boasting investors in every way possible to threaten their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46450	Right on line, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46451	Thank you, Chairman. What's really important for Serbian citizens to know, and as far as Corridor 10 is concerned, is that the Director of Corridors has said that what happened, that is, has happened, that is, that is, one of the dives, but he also said, I haven't heard it in the past two days, that this is what was expected, and that is why there was already project technical documentation. Also, I will remind him that he said that the slope has not slowed down any further construction of the Corridor, and what is most important and what Serbian citizens need to know is that he will get another modern, stable and safe highway. As far as the Engineering Chamber is concerned, the Minister has already responded, and I would say that the basis of these reports is, above all, that Gilas is probably angry that he can't control everything in this country as he used to. He could show us threats to the media, threats to the press, threats to the withdrawal of licenses. He's used to being a God and a beating, and now he's kind of out of his hands and that's probably the basis for their reports. What they can show here is one inhumane behavior, calling for violence. They show force, and they show that they are absolutely in agreement with the threat that someone is being threatened, called on to commit crimes, to call for rape, to call for murder, to call for the hangings of Serbia's largest statesmen, on the terraces. As far as municipalities and cities are concerned. The municipalities and cities are no longer touch palaces, municipalities and cities in Serbia are now modern, monitoring European standards, European cities and municipalities, working on the development of the south, zero factories everywhere, new jobs. I just want it to go on and on. I would like to conclude this announcement with a message that, with the occasional action "Turn Belgrade", you will all know what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46452	On what grounds, my colleague? (Balsa Bozovic: One way. ) On the other hand, the order works, or how does a colleague Martinovic say - when someone mentions Gilas and Jeremic, you all have the right to seek a word? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46453	Thank you. I've got a little time, you've, of course, limited it to me, you haven't given me a line, not according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, and you're doing it anyway, so I don't mind you very much. I'm wasting my time as an authorised representative, the remaining time of the authorised representative. As far as this law is concerned, the rest of Serbia has seen and the citizens have seen, and I don't want to waste time answering those slanders and nonsense, but what's not nonsense, these are laws that will come into effect and that will mean something to the citizens of Serbia, this remains realistic. Of course, a reality in which the government treats himself with pride and shows its true face toward the few MPs of the opposition. But it's their picture. As for the Law of Law, I told Mrs. Mihajlovic, she did not approve of the answer, that there are also good things and that some things have to be said goodbye. I do not belong to those who generally spit on everything that comes from the ruling coalition and, by the way, to me and some of my colleagues, spit, literally spit, colleagues on the other side. So there are good solutions, but what's the issue? In my opinion, and in our opinion, this delegation of the Engineering Chamber, regardless of all the problems it has, we're actually edifying the profession and it's a general position and, I would say, access to this government. More disputed, as far as citizens are concerned, traffic in Belgrade will be even more difficult and even more difficult people will move through the city if CarGo prevents it from working. You said it didn't mean that the adoption of this law would mean, but the owner of that application claims it will. So, we're in bad traffic, it's hard. It's no one's fault, it's not just one government that's to blame, but it's gonna be bad if we keep this little vehicle and the people who do it, and we keep them from doing it. The last thing I said was, if after a set of your laws, you didn't answer that either, I understand why, after all these laws, it would be easier or harder to bring down objects like this object on Pancic's top. So are you going to make it easier with this destruction of illegal construction or not to be relieved? Last thing. The fact is that this power has been in power for six years, the fact is that neither this major, nor this sinister, Corridor 10, which many authorities have promised, has been completed, is always delayed, for six years, Mrs. Mihajlovic. There are other directions opening up, we've heard of the Moravia Corridor as well. So, I'm not saying there's nothing to do, but I think investment in this kind of situation is an asset and energy on this highway to Tirana and Durres, regardless of what some parts of it will use to be a bad message and it really looks like it's something someone else from Serbia is looking for, and not that it's the vital interest of Serbian citizens besides all the other directions you need. As I said, for six years, the Moravia Corridor, six years, has not been completed, nor has this main vessel of housewives towards Macedonia. There's a reference to the construction of the highway towards... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46454	I thank my colleague Vukadinovic, it's been a while. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46455	So when you mention it here, it's like nonsense, spit, protection of the dignity of the National Assembly, and the profession is mentioned, I just don't know what exactly the profession here is when it comes to the previous speaker, whether it's by Vlach's profession or by what basis. It is absolutely unacceptable to speak to us here and to God protect the National Assembly and its dignity. A man who, not only traded those national feelings, which of course no one can accept as proper behavior, and as proof of any human virtue, and not only that, and that is true, has been mentioned today, that at a time when he was thrown out of his previous parliamentary group by the current DSS president, publicly appointed as a man who blackmailed chickens, he asked for 300,000 dinars a month. So, that man, and such a man tells us of virtues, but on the day when most brutally, the most awful thing is to invite their friend, colleague and their role model to publicly hang Anna Brnabic on the terraces, to publicly hang Alexander Vukic, this man who gave himself the right to have a moral and sermon here again, you know how, well, now I'm going to tell you how. This great fighter and brave guy, brave only on social networks, on these social networks commented on the case with scandalous words, says – in the Terraces the occupier hanged patriots, so that, therefore, the location is out of the question. It is acceptable for him to hang himself, it is acceptable for him to liquidate both Ana Brnabić and Aleksandar Vukic, only to consider that they are not patriots, so the location is wrong. So, you can kill yourself, you can admire yourself, but you can't do it on The Terrace. These are messages from a man who will come back to this room and tell us again what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. We don't need any more of those, no more judgments, no elemental humanity, but no more.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46456	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46457	Like I said, I'd prefer to pummel, but Article 104, right on the line. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, I think that fellow Orlic, here I am now giving you the opportunity to answer me, my colleague Orlic needs to be honest and quote the whole tweet, I said – no... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46458	You answer to your colleague Orlic, while advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, you did not even ask for a replica, Article 104 refers to the replica. So I couldn't even break the Rules of Procedure. You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you used it as a right to replication. (Jorge Vukadinovic: That's what everyone does. And that's what everybody does. Well, a little harder. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46459	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, given that we are ending this debate, I think it is time that this demagogue we heard from my right hand stopped and that this finale that is related to this session, at least when it comes to the principle debate, is implemented in a dignified way, and that is to point exclusively to the law and only to what we have so far been potential as something which, from the point of view of the ultimate good intentions, implies the possibility of improving the quality of the law. You've heard a clear demagogue that someone is covering behind the Engineering Chamber and that they're puzzling at the rights of members of the Engineering Chamber, trying to collect political points. Neither are the rights of the Engineering Chamber at risk, nor is the Engineering Chamber subjected to any or any yoke, simply the Engineering Chamber can function the way any chamber organisation should function. The fact that they haven't worked properly so far is their problem, and it's only their fault. I have to mention, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, one case that happened precisely during the authorities of those on my right, which is when in Zlatibor about 2010, immediately after the construction of a huge apartment complex, with even a few tens of thousands of squares, just after the construction, before moving in and fortunately, before moving in, the entire apartment complex collapsed, or destroyed. God forbid there's been a move-in, and don't give the God of sacrifice. What's an epilogue? The epilogue is that the projector responsible was neither responding nor missing hair from his head. Did the Engineering Chamber react then, and was the Engineering Chamber then under someone's yoke? Yeah, she was under someone's control, obviously she was, but he obviously didn't find anything appropriate to do. It's not the only case, there's a lot of these cases. Therefore, in order not to enslave us with demagogy and be hostages of demagogy, it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that no one here wants to discriminate. I'm proud to be a member of a bar that works fantastically, and where the Justice Department has absolutely no claim to put the bar under some kind of paw. This should not be interpreted, nor should it in any way be potent, as gentlemen say, that the Engineering Chamber, I do not know how, brought into a discriminatory position. There really is absolutely no value for any further comment. What I want to express as one great thank you, thanks for your understanding of both you and your associates for accepting certain well-intentioned suggestions relating to the law. I am not going to repeat some of the allegations that I highlighted in the principle debate, but I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, given the fact that, given the circumstances, we may have missed these key points to point out to the amendments that the committee should react, because illustrations for when objects that are of particular importance are objects of public interest and if these objects have a special impact on the environment, then indeed the owner of an object that is legal should give a statement which will point out that they will not seek harm if these damage and adverse consequences are caused or can be caused by a public object, and only if, at the time the object in law is legalized, they knew or had to know. In particular, if a gentleman is on this side or on any other side, he has many of them, so he builds his object next to the flood wave, and he knows that this flood wave can come at any moment, and besides, he's asking for full capacity to mutilate his objects, and then he has to suffer a certain consequence, because for that fact the danger and he knows and must know at the moment when the legislation is reached. That's why our proposal is to correct the formulation because it has its logic and its purpose to be corrected. What I want to point out in the end, I think it's very important, is that you, with this body of law, or the bill of law, as I have said in principle, have made a move. I ask you not to be the last, to continue to find solutions that will allow as effective legislation as possible, because after this, the Honorable Minister follows a period in which we will have a very delicate situation, and this situation implies the next consequence. We're going to have legal objects, we're going to have those objects that are excluded from the law. Those who are excluded from the law under the provisions of this law are not small numbers. That's a huge number. If there is an unsolicited consequence, which is the destruction of objects, I'm afraid it will be an extremely delicate business with many earthquakes, even social ones. Let's look for ways to, through restrictions, through certain repressive measures of fines or anything else that implies anything that will not harm material goods and that will not endanger material goods, make all those who have sinned for years and decades about the law and others outside the law. It is a way that we may be able to solve this problem. I'm afraid it won't help solve the problem in general. Once again and finally, support in the voting day by the SPS MPs for a set of these laws along with the amendments we have proposed, and I hope you will accept them, and I am sure that you will consider these committees in an adequate manner, also assess them as committeeal acceptances. In any case, SPS support stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46460	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46461	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Madam Minister with our associates, we had a chance to hear all sorts of things in this principle debate. I admire the courage of individuals whose true integrity is to be assured that, among other things, they are crying over the chamber of engineers, and it is true to believe that they sincerely think about it, who claim not to have taken pictures with Boris Tadic, and they were photographed, those who claim that their lottery ticket is not completed, and that no amount has been paid for that lottery ticket, those who claim to have not been on the Vlach list, and they were on the Vlach list, and you can judge for yourself how much their integrity is so that they can speak of anything at all. About the Engineering Chamber, about what was really necessary, he gave himself the right to speak to someone who got a degree in Law School in Bonafides, drinking coffee. I don't dare talk about engineers even though I've been a lawyer for 20 years, I've met a lot of people in art, I've had a chance to judge them from a variety of angles, I don't give myself that right. But obviously the less you know, the more you give yourself rights, and I believe that today he's over the Engineering Chamber, crying someone who can't even write an ordinary application for admission to the Engineering Chamber, let alone what else, and I'm free to conclude that, because he can't count as many articles as 107. Rules of Procedure, he's got attitudes. The other day, we heard from this distinguished colleague that he was advertising the violation of Article 107(3)'s Rules of Procedure, and I killed myself trying to find that third position, but it doesn't exist, so maybe for some future Rules of Procedure and we suggest that he be attitude 3 no longer embarrasses himself with his great knowledge acquired in Bonafides. But to put this principle debate back into those serious flows, which are, because the topic is too serious and it really concerns the citizens of Serbia from each of the possible angles, and most of all from what my distinguished colleague Nedo Jovanovic was talking about earlier. I absolutely agree with the fact that life dictates in many ways how the law will look and I see nothing wrong with the fact that as soon as the ministry sees certain problems, in certain procedures, access to amendments and additions to the law. I won't agree with all the solutions and suggestions, but my God, differences are perfectly normal, we're going to discuss the details through the amendments and we just don't need to waste time at this point, but the question is about different thoughts, when literally the nuances are at stake. The one who doesn't know that local self-government incomes are practically the most important thing, which she herself does urbanism and inspection jobs, is just making me do something that I think is really the key thing that this ministry can fix. Regardless of the ban on employment, I believe that this ministry must, precisely because of all these proposed laws, which are on the agenda today, insist on the Republic Government, grant local self-governments the employment of people, professional, trained to work on legalisation and all future affairs related to urbanism and inspection jobs. Why? We wouldn't be talking about legalization today if our inspections had done their job since the late 1990s and early 2000s, at least a little. Today, we wouldn't have hundreds of thousands of buildings built without building permits in places where it's practically impossible. You're trying, and we're trying to bring this into legal frameworks that are acceptable, but that's not enough. We need to think about a future step. If we don't think about it this way that local self-government needs more people, but not who will do other jobs, but just urban affairs and inspection areas that are related to urbanism, then we don't do this job properly, not thinking about what the next step is for us. Besides, I have one big application for this ministry, I know the law can't be written, so that certain positions can only be excluded from the law. When I say positions, I mean certain territories. We have, unfortunately, that the floods that counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic spoke of in another way, in Obrenovac and some other cities, but for Obrenovac I know, completely destroyed all the construction documentation, meaning the complete archives of the Obrenovac municipality, all of which destroyed the flood and no single paper there anymore. The Court's complete archive was destroyed, the Katastra archive was destroyed, and we now have a serious situation that will arise as a problem in future practice. It is, the reconstruction of objects and the delivery and acquisition of certain evidence that even these laws require, and they simply don't exist anymore. I must remind you that the state is bound to possess such a thing. Whether changes and additions to the Law on Floods should be made, so as to relax the way in which the subject is reconstructed, when it comes to building permits, they confirm, evidence that an object has been built with a building permit or in a certain way, to encourage and help local self-government to obtain with this little evidence, and has, to reconstruct the subject and thus put it into the service of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46462	Thanks, buddy. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46463	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, at the end of the principle debate on draft laws from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, I can conclude that there were no serious objections to the laws, which confirms that the drafts of the law were good. Apart from the urgency of the procedure and, of course, of Alexander Vukic and his family, the Serbian Progressive Party and even the names of some SNS deputies, we can say that there were no constructive proposals. We will see further in the discussion in particular, when we are more specific about the proposals. The construction, traffic and infrastructure ministry has achieved serious results in recent years, primarily in air traffic. Between 2013 and 2017, traffic in passenger transport increased by 60% and goods by 300%. The number of flights across Serbia and flights within Serbia by 80%. These results are also accompanied by an economic effect. Total direct revenues increased by 60% in 2017 and amount to around 70 billion dinars, while total indirect revenues are estimated at more than two billion euros. Er Serbia was awarded the highest security rating in 2018. Positive effects are also expected from the "Nikola Tesla" airport concession process, worth a billion and a half euros. This process will mean an increase in the number of passengers by 15 million a year. Serbia's budget goes directly to 501m euros, and direct investment will be around 730m euros. Annually, six to 16m euros will go to Serbia's budget. More than 250km of highways have been built in Serbia since 2012, and some 2,000km of highways and regional roads have been restored, and a new investment cycle is planned. The accent is on Corridor 10 and 11. Work has been started on many shares. Some papers are completed, some end up waiting for traffic release. Of vital importance to the citizens is, of course, the Moravski Corridor, therefore, the construction of the highway Pojate – Preljina, length 110 km. I also want to mention cheap apartments for security forces. We've already talked about this this year, and last week, government representatives and President Aleksandra Vukic defined all key issues. So there are already 23,000 reported. By May 1st, construction will begin in seven cities. First in Vranj and Nis. It's a huge project that's been going on for the first time in recent history, that the state is building apartments for security forces, and I'm hoping that this project will certainly be a model for the next period. The proposed changes and additions will work further on this, but also on other issues. The fight against wild construction continues, against arrogant and irresponsible investors. Abuses in legal proceedings are prevented. It's about reforming outdated procedures. Conditions are being created for the further development of the economy. It's about attracting new investments. Due to all ahead, the SNS parliamentary group will be very happy to support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-18-0.u46464	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 10 of the agenda. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Community of the Republic of Serbia Before the opening of the Single Search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. There are no lists registered for the word, and based on Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue on Monday, starting at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dusko Tarbuk, Djordje Milicevic, Zarko Obradovic and Gordana Comic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for A LAW ON CIVIL PRODUCTS Consent to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that on the occasion of the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda – the proposal for a Law on Construction Products, called for the sittings to be attended by Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Aleksandar Damnjanović, Miodrag Poledica, Imre Kern and Zoran Lakić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Jovanka Atanakovic, Đorđe Milić and Zoran Ilic, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and Bozana Lukić, independent adviser at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
