ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29238	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Momo Colakovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 19 to 32 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we have called for today's session: Dragomir Milojevic, President of the High Council of the judiciary, Ivan Jovičić, election member of the High Council of the judiciary, Tatjan Lagumdzija and Sandra Kulezic, election members of the State Council of Prosecutors, Vesna Janjic, independent adviser at the Administrative Office of the High Council of the Judiciary and Aleksandar Antić, Minister of Mining and Energy. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 19 to 32 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debates for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the National Bank of Serbia, Proposal for a decision to elect the Director of the Board of Supervisors over the financial institutions, Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of member of the Securities Commission, Proposal for a decision to elect the President and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice in Novi Sad, Proposal for a decision to elect the Vice-President of the Public Prosecutor, Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Criminal Court of Justice, Proposal for a decision to suspend the position of the President of the Court of Justice in Novi Pazar, Proposal for a decision to amend the position of President of the Court of Justice and to appoint members of the President of the President of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice and to appoint the Republic of the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the President of the Republic of the Europeans of the Europeans of the European Union of Serbia of Serbia. Do the proposings, or the proposing representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29239	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, today at paragraphs 19 and 20 on the agenda, we have a proposal when we talk about the National Bank of Serbia for the functions of the President of the Board of Governors and the Director of the Office for Oversight over the institutions, and about the National Bank of Serbia. This proposal for the National Bank of Serbia passed certain procedures of the same law on the National Bank of Serbia, as well as on the selection of functions that are within the competence of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, consequently, are on the agenda for more than three months, so that all MPs have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the biography of candidates and the procedure proposed by these candidates. When we talk about the President of the Board of Governors, the Committee on Budgets and Finance and the control of spending of public funds has made a decision to elect Professor Nebojsa Savik to this place, who has so far performed this very responsible function, and that Mr Zeljko Jovic, who, according to his biography, has also performed very responsible functions within the NBS and practically this job will not be a problem for him, even, moreover, is one step more in his career advancement. Under this set of laws and proposals in human resources, we also have today's Energy Agency. For the first time, we are choosing the composition, i.e. the President and the Council of the Energy Agency under the new Energy Act, which was adopted on 29 December 2015, which includes the third package of the EU Directive, which provided for the full independence of this Agency's work, but the way in which the elections itself were made is very complex, because we have participated very actively in the selection of this body here in the Assembly, in a way that, at the request of the Minister of Energy, after the end of the term of office of the previous term of the Energy Agency, the Serbian Parliament has given its two representatives from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Trade, Tourism and Energy as members of the Commission appointed by the Government. According to Article 40, the Energy Minister, under the Law, gave three members of the Commission of Government, who are prominent professors, i.e. experienced in the field of energy for over 15 years, so that the government decided at the end of January to form the Commission in the form of three professors - Prof. Dr. Rajakovic, Prof. Dr. Mitrovic, Dean of the Faculty of Engineering and Prof. Orlovic, Professor of the Faculty of Engineering-Mellur. In addition to these two candidates, my colleague, president of the Committee on Economy, Trade, Tourism and Energy, Snezana Petrovic, was a member of me. We were members of this commission, which conducted the competition. After the competition was held, she reviewed all documentation in co-operation with the technical service of the Ministry of Energy, verified the credibility of all documents, then held a conversation with six candidates for the president of the Energy Agency Council, with 19 candidates for four members of the Energy Agency and made a decision. The government also adopted that decision after the government adopted the decision, the government was sent to adopt the National Assembly. Of course, the Committee on Economy adopted this draft decision and as such almost three months ago entered the agenda of the pleum. As you can see, the procedure has been much more demanding, so the election period has lasted a lot longer, but I think we've made one quality solution based on all of this, because we've made five members think that the decisions this agency is going to make in the future should go to the future, on the one hand. On the other hand, to take a comprehensive multidisciplinary approach, which means that we have five members who are completely different professions, and they are related to energy and according to the requirements of competition and law based on which they have over ten years of work in the field of energy. So, for the president, we proposed to Mr. Dejan Popovic a graduate mining engineer, who has over 20 years of work in energy with his biography. He participated on several occasions in all public debates on the energy development strategy by 2030 when it comes to Serbia. He also had his experience as director of the Public Enterprise Resavica, in addition at the Ministry of Energy. Of course, all these candidates had to submit written reports and evidence that they were neither party officials, nor any officials that would threaten, practically, the choice in this place. Then, according to the law, the president is elected for seven years, according to the Energy Act, which we adopted here in 2015. Then, two members are elected for six years and two members for five years. In addition to the candidate for the president of the Agency who is a mining engineer, we selected more electric engineers, Mr. Predrag Markovic, and then, an economist, Mrs. Dejana Kostic Stefanovic and one lawyer, Mr. Petkovic, who was also a member of the Energy Agency Council and Mrs. Negica Rajakov, who has also had experiences in energy for over 10 years, especially in the field of technology, oil production, oil derivatives, but also in the area of gas. So, experience working with NIS. We have indeed seen that expertise is above all else and that these candidates include both certain qualities and contacts of people from all over Serbia. I'll tell you that Mrs Negica Rajkov is from Pančevo, and that Mrs Dejana Kostic, an economist, who spent more than 10 years in the EPS of Nis, is worth their experiences in the field of energy. That's what they showed, after all, at the interview, the interview we had with all the candidates, so they sort of got separated. When we talk about the elections under paragraphs 23 to 30 on proposals for the election of the President of the Courts, I think that the election of the President of the Court was indeed within the jurisdiction of the Council of Justice, and so that they would really have no objections. You've received suggestions in writing. There is only a 24th choice of the prosecutor's deputy, where and as the SNS parliamentary group, it will challenge the election of two prosecutors, it is Karic Mikica, the General Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec and Šormaz Milic, in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office, for the reason we consider that this election is not adequately done and does not possess the qualities that should be found today on this list. In addition to these points when we talk about the selection of new judges, I would say that at this session we had to put on the agenda and the points that end the mandates of certain judges, whose deadline is, as I say, the mandate, or their functions, have ceased, so that we have in Belgrade, Novi Sad, then Leskovac and Novi Pazar. The points, 31, 32, refer to the amendments of members and deputies of the RIK, to the DJB and DS parliamentary groups, and I must say that we will support these proposals as those colleagues have supported, of course, our proposals. I believe that this one agenda today represents one set of legal solutions which solves a lot of things with regard to staff issues, not just courts, but also these institutions like NBS and like the Energy Agency. I am prepared to answer every question of MPs, if there is any misunderstanding. I think you got your biographies in writing. If you'd like, I'll complete my presentation, but I think for this first report I wanted to be extremely concise and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29240	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The word is from Mr. Ivan Jovičić, election member of the High Council of the judiciary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29241	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I am, as you have heard, Ivan Jovicic, a member and vice president of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. I have a great honour and pleasant duty to present before the MPs of the National Assembly a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts, which the High Council of the judiciary submitted to the Assembly on 30 October 2017 and on 21 December 2017. Namely, the High Council of the Court of Justice announced in the daily list "Politika" and "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", on 2 March 2017 the election of the President for seven courts in the Republic of Serbia and for the Economic Court of Appeal, the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, the Supreme Court in Prokuplje, the Second Fundamental Court in Belgrade, the General Court in Krusevec, the General Court in Surdulica and the Criminal Court in Loznica. As announced in the daily list "Politika" and "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" on 28 June 2017, the election of a president for six courts in the Republic of Serbia and for the Supreme Court in Pirot, the first basic court in Belgrade, the Court of Fundamental Court in Sjenica, the Criminal Court in Loznica, the Criminal Court in Negotina and the Criminal Court and the Court of Appeal. The High Council of the Court of Justice is the ability of candidates to conduct and organise cases in a court of law on criteria and criteria for the assessment of professionality, competence and dignity for the selection of judges in permanent judicial office in the Second or Higher Court and on criteria for proposing candidates for the President of the Court. On the basis of Article 11 of the above-mentioned regulation, the VSS has firstly educated the Commission for the Election of the President of the Courts, which consisted of three members of the VSS in the order of judges. The VSS then made a decision on the emergency evaluation of the candidates, who applied for the election for the presidents of those courts. The VSS Election Commission evaluated the ability of candidates to manage and organise work in court on the basis of the programme of work and talks with the candidate. After that, the VSS commission, in the process of proposing candidates, set a final assessment for all candidates and submitted a previous list of candidates. Also, the VSS has obtained an opinion on candidates from a session of all judges everywhere, which is proposed to elect a president. On the basis of Article 13(4), The VSS Act, and in relation to Article 70. The Law on Judges, the VSS, held on 24 October 2017 and held on 20 December 2017, established a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of 12 candidates, by proposing under 1) Jasminka Obačina, the Judge of the Court of Commerce, to elect the President of the Court of Appeal; Jovan Jovanovic, Judge of the Court of Auditors, proposes to elect the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade; Gordana Djuric, Judge of the Higher Court in Procupje, proposes to elect the President of the Higher Court in Prokuplje. Under 4) Tatjana Jeremic, Judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, proposes to elect the President of the Second Basic Court in Belgrade; Slobodan Ivanovic, Judge of the Basic Court in Krusevec, proposes to elect the President of the Basic Court in Krusevec; Sanja Stojkovic, Judge of the General Court in Surdulica, proposes to elect the President of the General Court in Surdulica; Zoran Manic, Judge of the Higher Court in Piroth, proposes to elect the President of the Higher Court in Piroth; Snezana Stevovic, Judge of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, proposes to elect the President of the First Basic Court in Belgrade; Vejsel Smajovic, Judge of the Basic Court in Sjenica, proposes to elect the President of the General Court in Sjenica. Under 10) Milica Perisic, judge of the Loznica Criminal Court, proposes to elect the President of the Criminal Court in Loznica; Ljubica Marinkovic, Judge of the Criminal Court in Negotin, proposes to elect the President of the Criminal Court in Negotin. Under 12) Leonida Popovic, judge of the Criminal Court of Appeals, proposes to elect the president of the Criminal Court of Appeal. Since, honourable MPs, I would not burden you with the biography of candidates, as well as with the reasoned proposal of the VSS, because they are in your materials, I am prepared to answer every question and remain only to invite you to support all the proposals of the VSS today and to select the candidates and thank you in advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29242	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word is by Sandra Kulezic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29243	Thank you. Honorable MPs, the president-in-Office, face the National Assembly today with two proposals from the State Council of Prosecutors on the election of first-time deputy public prosecutors. It is about the proposal of 28.08.2017 to elect the deputy public prosecutor for war crimes and the proposal of 14.12.2017 on the election of 52 deputy public prosecutors in the main public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the first proposal for deputy public prosecutor for war crimes, the state's chief prosecutor was proposed by Rabrenovic Svetislav, prosecutor's assistant in the war crimes prosecutor's office. Four candidates participated in this contest for the election of deputy war crimes prosecutors, and proposed candidate Rabrenovic Svetislav, the only one with a maximum number of points following an assessment of the professionality and competence of the candidates, which was conducted by the Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors. In short, I will say what the State Council has done when proposing this candidate, except for the fact that his expertise and training has been assessed by the highest assessment. Namely, it was a candidate who, after a judicial trial was passed since 2003, served as a prosecutor's associate first in the 5th municipal public prosecutor's office in Belgrade and since 2013, as a prosecutor's associate in the war crimes prosecutor's office. By the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, this candidate worked as a member of the Ministry's Expert Team representing the Republic of Serbia before the International Court of Justice. Since then, due to experience gained in the field of international law and knowledge of English, he has been engaged in a large number of cases and affairs concerning international law, as an adviser to the Expert Team of the Republic of Serbia representing the state before the International Court of Justice, a member of the Action Plan for Chapter 23 - Justice and Fundamental Rights, as well as a member of the Working Party for the Development of the National Strategy for the Processing of War Crimes by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. The Head of the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, the proposed candidate, assessed the assessment as "particularly prominent", and highlighted the results, independence, entrepreneurship, precision and security as the assessment criteria. In addition to his application for competition and working biography, the proposed candidate provided a large number of recommendations received from relevant experts in the field of international law, as well as experts working in public prosecutors, where he was assessed as a good acquaintance of international humanitarian law, who was engaged in cases from this area at international level, and made a major contribution to the development of important strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia, which he recommends as a professional and qualified public prosecutor's office in the position for which he was proposed. When it comes to a proposal to elect 52 deputy public prosecutor in the main public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, I will first say that it is about an ad for the election, which was announced in 22/09/2017 in "Official Messenger" 86/17, for a total of 52 seats of deputy public prosecutors in 32 main public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. A total of 277 candidates, of which 154 prosecutor's assistants, 49 judicial assistants, 42 users of the initial training of the Judiciary Academy, two deputy public prosecutor and 30 candidates outside the judiciary, applied. The competition was conducted between 22 September 2017 and 14 December 2017, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 76 to 82. Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors and the Rules of Procedure on the way of the examination to verify the professionality and competence of the candidate first elected as deputy public prosecutor. Following the verification of the timeliness and regularity of applications of candidates, obtained opinions by the authorities and organisations in which the candidates work, an examination was organised and conducted for the verification of expertise and training, and the examination was held on 10 November 2017. The exam totalled 132 candidates. After that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 81. The Law on Public Prosecutor's Office has been held to discuss with all candidates who have passed the examination of expertise and training, as well as with candidates who have completed their initial training at the Judicial Academy. Following the end of the proceedings on the State Council's website, candidates' rankings were published. There were no objections to the list, so such rankings were adopted at the session more as the final ranking on 14 December 2017, after which a decision was made on the proposal to the National Assembly of Candidates to elect a deputy public prosecutor to be elected for the first time. A decision on the proposal of these candidates was reached unanimously by nine members present. Of the 52 candidates proposed, 43 candidates are prosecutors, three candidates are judicial assistants, and six proposed candidates are users of initial training at the Judiciary Academy. All proposed candidates meet the law of the prescribed general and special conditions for selecting the deputy public prosecutor. All the candidates proposed have reached a maximum score of five in the expert and training assessment exam, i.e. a maximum score of five in the final exam at the Judicial Academy, except for two candidates who were proposed for election in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lebanon and the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Piroth, where the proposed candidates scored four as candidates with the highest score in those prosecutions, since the candidates who made the five proposals for the election in other public prosecutors. According to data available by the state's major prosecutors, the proposed candidates are also worthy of performing a public prosecutor's office. Since a large number of candidates in the process of estimating expertise and training have achieved maximum assessments of expertise and training, the State's major prosecutors, in addition to that assessment, have taken particular account of the work experience of candidates, the type of work done after a judicial examination, the opinions given to candidates by the authorities and organisations in which they have worked, as well as the appropriate representation of national minorities in public prosecutors in which the language of national minorities is officially used. Proposed candidates from the ranks of prosecutors and judicial assistants have five and more years of working experience after a judicial trial, 31 of which are proposed candidates between five and ten years after a judicial trial, and 15 candidates have ten and more years of working experience in the public prosecutor's office, or court, following a judicial trial, of which three candidates are more than 15 years of work. The candidates proposed were solely or principally involved in criminal matter after a judicial trial. The candidates who completed their initial training at the Judicial Academy have four and five years of training after a judicial trial, and have continued to work in the public prosecutor's office or in criminal matter in court after the initial training at the Judiciary Academy. All proposed candidates from the prosecutor's and judicial assistants are by decision of the public prosecutor, or college, for their work so far assessed by the assessment "specially highlighted", as well as the proposed candidates who completed their initial training at the Judiciary Academy. In view of the above characteristics of the proposed candidates, the State's Chief Prosecutors consider the best candidates to contribute to improving the efficiency of the work of the public prosecutors, in which they will perform the public prosecutor's office with a secure and responsible performance of the prosecutor's office. We have given them full trust because of their quality, so I invite you to do so, because we are sure that the trust shown will justify it. Since we have heard from the representatives of the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly that two candidates are planning to be challenged, and these are the two candidates who have been proposed for the primary public prosecutor's election in Krusevec, this is Karic Mikica and candidate Shormaz Milic, I would only point out in particular that in this case it is candidates who have long-standing working experience in the public prosecutor's office. Karic Mikica has nine years of staff in the public prosecutor's office after a judicial exam and Šormaz Milica has 10 years of working experience in the public prosecutor's office following a court trial. Both candidates were evaluated by their prosecutors, prosecutors, by the highest assessment -- particularly for their work, as well as by the public prosecutor's college. These are the reasons why the state's major prosecutor considered them, he still believes these candidates should be elected to the Khrusevac General Public Prosecutor's Office. So, according to this decision, the following candidates were proposed for the election of the deputy public prosecutor's office in Belgrade: Bogdanovic Svetlana, prosecutor's assistant at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; Kalicanin Vuletic Angela, prosecutor's assistant at the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; Micanovic Biljana, prosecutor's assistant at the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; Petrovic Stefan, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy; Stojanović Maja, prosecutor's assistant at the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; Stojiljković Jovanovic, prosecutor's assistant at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Deputy Public Prosecutor in Belgrade's Second General Prosecutor, Vukojevic Mira, prosecutor's assistant at the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; Krstic Gordana, prosecutor's assistant in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime; Stojanovic Nikola, prosecutor's assistant at the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. For the deputy public prosecutor in Belgrade's Third General Prosecutor, Kovacevic Ivana, prosecutor's assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; Polic Jadranka, prosecutor's assistant at the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; Stojanac Maretic Milica, prosecutor's assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. A deputy public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Mladenovic was proposed by Angelic Ljubomir, a prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Veljkovic Vladimir, prosecutor's assistant at the Obrenovac Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev, Ognjanovic Rosul Ljiljana, prosecutor's assistant at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Velika Plana, it was proposed: Marković Zeljko, a judge's assistant at the basic court in Smederev and Milić Aleksandar, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy. Matic Nevena, a prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo, was proposed. A deputy public prosecutor at Smederev's General Prosecutor's Office was proposed by Savic Aleksandra, a prosecutor's assistant at the Smederev Main Public Prosecutor's Office. A deputy public prosecutor at the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office was proposed by Bajramovic Branka, a prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. For the deputy public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin, Porovic Sanja, prosecutor's assistant at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin and Crnomarković Dragan, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, was proposed. Popovac Tatjana, prosecutor's assistant at the Central Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica, was proposed. Jovicic Djordje, prosecutor's assistant at the main public prosecutor's office in Vienna, was proposed. A deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac was proposed by Alexic Jelena, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, Veseinović Jelena, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac and Tesic Maričić Bojana, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Loznica. For the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Subotica, Dolmagic Damir, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, was proposed. Ivanišević Predrag, a judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Somboro and Milic Jelena, the prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sombor, were proposed to the Deputy Public Prosecutor in Sombor. For the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Stari Pazova, Grbic Dragana, prosecutor's assistant at the main public prosecutor's office in Stari Pazova, was proposed. Karic Mikica, the prosecutor's assistant prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec and Šormaz Milica, were proposed as deputy prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec and Šormaz Milica, the prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec. For the deputy public prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office, Jovanovic Aleksandar, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Arangelovac, Miletic Aleksandra, prosecutor's assistant at the Mladenovac Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. Todorovic Marjan, the prosecutor's assistant in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina, was proposed as deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Despotovac. Vuckovic Vladimir, prosecutor's assistant at the Uzic General Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed for the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Požega. A deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Pozarevec was proposed by Velebit Jelena, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev and Pantic the Vladka, the prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec. A deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar was proposed by Baćinin Adnan, a prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar and Bakic Samir, a prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. Vujisic Aleksandra, prosecutor's assistant at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Milosevic Tatjana, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Stanojevic Vladimir, prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, was proposed as deputy prosecutor at the General Prosecutor's Office in Nis. A deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Bor was proposed by Milosevic Sasa, a prosecutor's assistant at the Zajecar General Public Prosecutor's Office. Peric Jovan, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judiciary Academy, was proposed as deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. Djordjevic Dalibor, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judiciary Academy, was proposed as deputy public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladic's Han. For the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Leban, Stevanovic Milos, a prosecutor's assistant at Leban's Main Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Leskovac, Boroja Dusan, a prosecutor's assistant at the Vranj Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. Djuric Predrag, a prosecutor's assistant at the Pirot General Prosecutor's Office, and Rangel's Marija, a senior court assistant in Piroth, were proposed as deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office. A deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Aleksinec was proposed by Rangelovic Marija, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Aleksinc. In the end, I will call once again on the MPs to vote on all the proposed candidates of the State Council of Prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29244	Thank you, Mrs. Kulezic. Do the committees in charge want a word? The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29245	Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will speak of paragraph 23 to paragraph 30, as this is, in the jurisdiction of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government. First I'm going to say that we have two kinds of decision-making here. The first is the conditional technical matter, we need today, i.e. in the day of the vote, to accept the resignations of the President of the Criminal Court, the Court of Appeal, the Court of Fundamental Court in Novi Pazar, the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad and the Court of Commerce in Leskovac. These first three resigned because they were elected to new functions and for this reason this Assembly must relieve them of their existing functions, and the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Leskovec, as far as I remember, I think he submitted a motion for resolution because he was going into retirement, if I remember correctly, but it's not as important in the rest. The other kind of decision is to make a decision on the election, which is also the responsibility of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to elect the senior president of the courts in the Republic of Serbia and to make a decision on the selection of prime ministers in the basic public prosecutors' offices of the so-called so-called. First choice or, as we say so popularly, so-called. Three-year-olds, as long as this condition is now in force. When it comes to the Presidents of the Courts, which we today, or on the day of the vote, are to choose, this is the President, first of all, of the Court of Appeal, then we have several senior courts in the Republic of Serbia and several presidents of basic, or infringement courts in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Jovicic explained to you in detail that the procedure for proposing the mentioned, registered, candidates for the presidents of these courts was fully respected in accordance with the Law on Judges and Courts and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of the Judiciary. Since I have had the opportunity to take part in the work of the High Council of Justice, I can say that the proposed candidates are at this point the best candidates for the proposed seats of the President of the Court, and in this way we will round up and fill the seats of the President of these courts who have remained empty for a long time, they have held in those places as acting presidents of these courts. When it comes to selecting the deputy attorney generals, I can say that I have also participated in the work of the State's Council of Prosecutors, and I can say responsibly that all decisions have been made when it comes to the proposed candidates for the Deputy Prosecutor General's Office's post in the main public prosecutions. So it was not, as popularly as a letter arrived today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the Alumni Club of the Judicial Academy, that it was so-called. The vote's fixation. I don't understand what it means to call a vote, there was a secret vote, all the candidates received a maximum number of votes from the members of the state's council of prosecutors present. All candidates, as the introductions have said, have received maximum marks, have long-term work experience and it is the state's chief prosecutor's position that they should be elected to these places. No candidate has been challenged on the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. All decisions have been made unanimously and such decisions have been forwarded to the National Assembly for adoption. Therefore, now tell some stories and quote some other things because maybe someone or someone's candidate from the Alumni Club didn't pass, so it'll be another time if he meets the criteria set before the election. So, I don't think there's any reason to dispute the proposed candidates who deserve to be deputy general prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia with both professional and moral and human and experienced qualities. Mr. President, since I'm running out of time, and I'm entitled to five minutes as chairman of the board, I'd like to ask you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29246	Continue to use the time of the authorized representative of your group and prepare Dr. Vojislav Seselj, after you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29247	Let me just say, as deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, that in the day of voting, we will support the proposal of the High Council of the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as the proposal of the Finance Committee, because we believe that candidates who are proposed by their knowledge, experience, work so far fully correspond to the functions proposed and that we will thus improve both the Serbian judiciary and the Serbian Prosecutor's Office, in the end of the day, and these bodies proposed by the Finance Committee. So, once again I can say, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors, you have the full support of the JS Parliament Club and in voting day all candidates will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29248	Thank you. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, as the greatest living Serbian expert on international humanitarian law, am not kidding at all, I seriously think, if there is a better let it appear on the line, I could not possibly assess the candidate for the deputy war crimes prosecutor as a positive estimate, let alone award him 20 points. He'd get zero points with me, and a note in the brackets, when he grows up, he might be better. However, I discovered here a major corruption affair. Svetislav Radenovic was linked to this list, based on Tanja Miscevic's intervention, which gave him a special recommendation as head of the Serbian government's negotiating team to conduct negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. What law states that she can make a special recommendation for selecting a deputy public prosecutor for war crimes? How can he give that recommendation, based on what? Here you need to go to prison and Tanja Miscevic and Zagorka Dolovac, who is corrupt here. What she got in return, I don't know, maybe nothing yet, maybe this is on you, but the same importance has the intervention of Tanja Miscevic as the possible intervention of the Director of Agricultural Cooperative from Koseric or the President of the Voluntary Fire Department of Bora or anyone in the state system who performs any function. This is a functional intervention, this is the incursion of a state-run official from an area in which it has a completely foreign area. If you do not prosecute this corruption case, I will understand what your fight against corruption will be like in the first place, because so far you have not replaced these most corrupt ministers. Furthermore, Tanja Miscevic told him that she knew the international humanitarian law well, which was engaged in cases from this area at international level, which, with experience, was gained on the International Legal Team representing the Republic of Serbia before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Well, we lost in that trial before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Our country was found guilty of not preventing genocide in Srebrenica, a alleged genocide, and for not punishing the perpetrators when the genocide allegedly occurred. Why is our country found guilty? It is because of experts such as Svetislav Radenovic, who have no idea of International Criminal Law, of International humanitarian law at all, and are drilling into their chests and agreeing to participate in the work of teams where they would have to be top experts. The moment the International Court of Justice, despite the fact that Yugoslavia was not a member of the UN in 1993, accepted that it sued Bosnia and Herzegovina for the alleged crime of genocide even though it did not belong as a signator of the SRJ, or the genocide convention, and in the second case, when the SRJ sued 11 NATO states for such a thing, was not declared to be competent, because Yugoslavia was not a member. At that moment, our entire delegation had to leave the International Court of Justice meeting and say, "You judge whatever you want, you have your Inquisition School, we don't care." They silently agreed, accepted and continued to represent. Next, what else did they do? The International Court of Justice was not at all concerned with investigating whether genocide really took place. He found that a single verdict for genocide was made at The Hague tribunal, Colonel Vido Blagojevic, the war commander of the Bratunna Light Infantry Brigade. In the first degree, he was convicted of genocide based on participation in a joint criminal enterprise. In the Convention on Genocide, which must be strictly applied, which is above all laws, above any other international legal act, there is no provision for the execution of genocide based on participation in a joint criminal enterprise. It fell in the second degree. In the second degree, he was convicted of supporting and assisting genocide without the need to investigate that he had a special intention to execute genocide, which is also impossible under the International Convention on Genocide. For any form of execution of genocide, either direct perpetrator, or accomplices, any such, there must be a dolus specialis – a specific or special intention. You as lawyers should know that. Despite the UN tribunal's verdict being absolutely against the law, the International Court of Justice has called for it, and never has our delegation questioned the International Court of Justice's legality of the UN tribunal. They had to do it first. The first time someone called on the UN tribunal's verdict was to ask that the court to give a advisory opinion on whether the international UN tribunal was legal because it was not formed by an organ, whose jurisdiction was determined by the UN Charter. It was formed by the abuse of VII of the UN Charter, which states that the Security Council can apply force to establish or preserve peace. That is why The Hague tribunal is a form of force enforcement by the Security Council to preserve and maintain peace. It is, therefore, the American cavalry, the American VI fleet, it has nothing to do with the court, courts are formed to bring justice, not to preserve peace. That's why this trait of his falls into the water. This candidate cannot be elected, that he is the rights and justice in this country and that the ruling majority of such things are of interest in, or because for years he was the closest associate of Vladimir Vukcevic, an American spy who regularly, in his opinion, while being a war crimes prosecutor, went to the American Embassy and boasted. He can't. Then, Svetislav Rabrenovic participated in the launch of an investigation into Serbian journalists for allegedly organising, or inciting genocide and war crimes. The procedure was launched in time by NUNS, also by a foreign agent, who is still a foreign agent today, was also one of the editors of the book "Specials and Misdeeds, Encouraging War Crimes 1991-1992". He was also a promoter of the UN tribunal in various cases in BiH, you know that an illegal, illegal BiH court was also formed in BiH, outside BiH's legal order under the Dayton Agreement and outside the constitutional system declared by the Dayton Agreement. This is your distinguished lawyer, an expert, a good acquaintance who stands out especially against his people and state. And for whom does Tasa Misčević intervene? Typical case of corruption at the top of the state system. What was done by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, I don't defend either the judges and the judge was extremely corrupt, corrupt, who did not know the basic elements of international criminal law, shows a case of numerous convictions for the crime in Ovcara. The war crimes prosecutor's investigation systematically covered up the role of the JNA military service in the crime, and the crime, found in The Hague tribunal, was the organisation's head of security, General Aleksandar Vasiljevic, along with his assistant, the colonel then, later General Tumanov. He came the day before the shooting to knowingly Bosnian at the headquarters of the motorised guard brigade in Negoslavci, making a list of persons from the Vukovar hospital to be shot at the orders of Tudjman's regime and selecting the city's poor,... The city's fuckmaker and most importantly, prominent opponents of the Croatian Democratic Community. Because, watch out, Vukovar was released on November 18th, and our forces entered the hospital, Colonel Sljivancanin only entered on November 21st. What have they been waiting for? They were waiting for everything to be arranged. Colonel Sljivancanin took the prisoners, took them to the Ovcara, I can't accuse him of knowing that they would be shot, I can't, but he personally drove the prisoners away, instead of sending them to Sremska Mitrovica. Then General Vasiljevic retired three Colonels Slavko Tomic, Bogoljub Kijanovic and Bogdan Vujic and gave them orders to shoot themselves. During the shooting, security officers were present at the Ovchara farm and at the pit where the corpses were buried. The first checklist was checked, so it was established instead of 200 people, that it was 207, since our military security service was so many pedantics, they singled out seven of them, and all those seven showed up at my house in The Hague. Thanks to their help, I was able to expose the Ovchara case. Seven were singled out, sent home, and exactly 200 were fired, because 200 were ordered. Then we were made public here that the territorialists did it, that the prisoners were handed over to the civilian authorities, the civilian authorities had not been in Vukovar for months yet. The Vukovar military commander for nearly three months was commander of the 80th brigade, I guess, Colonel Vojiovic. All this cover-up, innocent people convicted, so in the first trial almost everyone convicted, some released, and especially pissed at my volunteers, so half freed them, half convicted. In the second process, some others were released, so in the third and now left one, Predrag Milojevic, a Chineseman who was not even our volunteer at the time, wore a five-pointer, later joined the party, who was not at all on the Ovcara pit. Davor Stilinović, a Croatian expert, helped me prove it because witnesses, false witnesses, who are now protected by the state, such as this, as was his name, Petkovic Stuka and the god of Latinovic, called Boro Krarisnik, who are still under protection, what is called Petkovic Štuka, was a police officer and participated in the crime as a regular soldier of the Guard brigade at the service of the military deadline. Based on these two false statements, Predrag Milojevic Chinese was convicted, because they allegedly found that anyone who showed signs of life after the shooting was certified by his 357 magnum revolver, and I am told nicely by the Croatian artist – no shell casing was found. They say he took the "acon" car over the field there, the Croatian artist confirmed to me in late November – no one in the private civilian car, let alone the "ascon" could drive over the fields to the site of execution, they took tractor trailers. And now this other man I guarantee, who I found not to participate, I'm not getting into whether the others are innocent or not, I haven't had the chance to expose everything, but this guy is innocent and he's got 20 years in prison. Furthermore, the same prosecutor's office has taken a non-critical indictment from BiH against a group of police officers who are said to have killed 1,300 civilians in Kravica near Srebrenica at a agricultural cooperative warehouse. According to the testimony of Muslims who saw it, there could have been at least 100 and no more than 300 Muslim prisoners. Our police, the Serbian police, are all our police, led them unbound to a warehouse in Kravic. There were 10 or 15 of them. They were on their way in a good mood, asking about friends they knew, relatives, all expecting, Serbian police officers and captured Muslims, that they would be released and exchanged very quickly and that it would take a short while. They led them to the farm cooperative warehouse, and then one Muslim, all unbound, grabbed a Serb cop's gun, killed him, turned to shoot at the others, the commander grabbed the pipe, turned into the air, a hot pipe burned his palm, he went for first aid, there was a nervous system that would, 200 or 300 Muslims versus 15 cops, at one point someone lost his nerve and started shooting. That's how the massacre happened. There's no 1,300 and they weren't civilians. It can be said, under normal circumstances, that out of the war it happened, overstepping the necessary self-defense. But in the war, there is no overstepping of the necessary self-defense. I shoot as soon as there's a noise, as soon as I feel the danger, I fire preventively, and then I go to see if I was really in danger. There are other cases here. This is no longer a matter of the War Crimes Court, but of this Special Court of Organized Crime. The Djindjic murder trial was completely directed. There were three bullets from two different calibers, all covered up. No reconstruction has been performed on site, and in an illegal manner, Zvezdan Jovanovic, under police torture, was heard personally by General Papaya Rodoljub Milojevic. With the threat of liquidating his entire family, he confessed to some nebulosis. There were no lawyers, they later brought a lawyer, Vesna Radomirovic, to falsely sign that she attended the hearing. We also have this terrible situation, the process has to be restored. Don't offer us any more of these, Vladimir Vukčević's students, as deputy public prosecutor. I'm going to follow closely now, I started with this Kravica case, I'm going to intensively monitor all the processes for war crimes and for every, and the slightest mistake, i.e. breaking the law, the procedure, falsifying evidence, twisting facts, I'm going to alarm the public. I'm not going to be elected by the people, I'm in the polls, the judges of Belgrade want me all, so I'm going to be in charge of the work of the courts and the public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29250	Thank you, Dr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29251	Did I still have a little time?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29252	This was the precedent. Thank you very much. You're done in time. The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary group will concentrate on the judiciary. First we'll start with the election of the president of the basic courts. My colleagues with whom I have consulted on this issue do not know the judges in the interior well, but those names that we could get some information on will be made known today. First, around Judge Snezana Stevanovic, who was proposed president of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. She was told best by her colleagues, that she was experienced, that she was a very decent person, that she was quite fine as a judge and there were no objections to her. Of course you don't think that speaking of this and praising Mrs. Stevanovic, we don't care that the regime doesn't care much about who will be the president of the first and second municipal court, because these are courts that are mostly competent for small litigation, for petty crimes, and then there can be some impartiality. A similar situation is with Judge Tatjana Jeremic, who is proposed as president of Belgrade's Second Basic Court. And her colleagues say she's experienced, that she's a career judge and that she has the support of her colleagues and they think it's a good choice. But quite differently, colleagues declared themselves to be the president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade and the president of the Court of Appeal. It is also quite clear because this regime must not allow such things to slip out of their hands, because there is a trial of disputes of great value of the legal person and power to control it maximumly, each, and this one, I would say, especially. To these judges, we all know well, from the highest places orders are given and they do so so that the executive power stands behind the choices of these people. The proposal for the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade is Jovan Jovanovic. For Jovanovic, colleagues have very little to say, and he does not enjoy some great reputation by his colleagues, so many believe that judges directly vote for him, so that he may get two or three votes and no more. By the way, I have to say that the new judges for the Commercial Court of Appeal have almost been elected from the judges of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. The judge who received most of the votes was not elected, but another judge who "successfully" was elected in the Asamakum case. So, these judges are nothing more than a protégé of the executive authority and we as a Parliament club can't support that. We can't support Mrs. Jasmine's dress for the President of the Court of Appeal. There are not so many bad words for her as for Judge Jovanovic, but the voice is that she is a woman who is above all obedient. The judge's regime is controlled by the president of the courts and by the prosecutor's office, and we all know that and there is no error and the right to rule in the judiciary is with the President of the High Court in Belgrade, Aleksandr Stefanovic, who as a judge is mediocre, but who is therefore a friend and colleague of our former prime minister, and now the president of the state is also a shrewd one for the implementation of certain decisions. All these judges are the bosses of Mr. Selakovic, who is former minister of justice, he is now something with Vukic in the presidency, I don't know what. But colleagues say the gray eminence of the Serbian judiciary and Minister Loncar and that the two, along with certain police structures and the BIA, are one clan that is staring at the Serbian judiciary. As for the election of Deputy Prosecutors for War Crimes, the election of Deputy Prosecutors of Public Prosecutors, here's Mrs. Kulezic to say that since these are the suggestions of the State Council of Prosecutors who beat the voice that they are impartial and that they are honest we will support these proposals and for Mr. Rabrenovic are quite good characteristics, that he is well-educated and that he knows the matter well, just like the other prosecutors that you, Mrs. Kulezic, have listed. Against some of these people, otherwise against this election, I see we've also received a letter from the Alumni Judicial Academy Club that is rebelling against these elections, but of course on a small door and in a different way, I must say that with all due respect we always give priority to the State's greater prosecutors precisely because of his independence and impartiality. We can't do that to the Justice Academy, we can't trust her for the simplest reason. Namely, the head of the Judicial Academy is elected by the Government, appointed by the Government, and then after choosing its own students, so that we also see in the judiciary that should be an independent branch of the government and that judiciary loses its independence and becomes nothing more than a prosthetic of the executive authority. I'd like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29254	Thank you. I apologize to Mr. Jovicic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29255	I thank the chairman. You allowed, or you injured a member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly, because I really don't know how many times in this house you have to say that the flat, baseless, unfounded, so I have to say, even completely unserious comments on the burden of the judiciary sent by our colleagues are really inadmissible. It offends the dignity of this home. I can understand if there is a comment on a particular person that can be talked about and discussed, but how to defend the entire judiciary from such flat-rates that are absolutely unfounded and unfounded. I think that this should be prevented, and that someone thinks they're collecting cheap points by saying that someone controls courts through the president of the courts and makes some of their own auto projections and maybe wishes and shows what they were doing at a time when in 2009 and 2010, some of whom are today, destroying the Serbian judiciary, is something that you as chairman should not allow, if there are problems in the judiciary there are names and names and they are always to be spoken of, but the Serbian judiciary is one of the best and most frequent judiciarys and must not be insulted from this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29256	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. I believe Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić has expressed her political position only. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word is Mr. Jovicic. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29257	Thank you, Chairman. I will briefly, given that the two candidates proposed by the High Council for Presidential Elections and by counterpart Jasminka Obačina, for the president of the Chamber of Appeal and counterpart Jovan Jovanovic as president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. To point out that in my opening statement, I stated that the High Council of the Judiciary was not only respecting the Constitution and the law, but simply the regulation applied in the case of candidate proposals, which is the regulation which set out the criteria and measures for the assessment of skills and not to repeat now again. He proposed really exceptional persons, in both cases, and when it comes to colleagues Jasminka Obačina and counterpart Jovan Jovanovic, not only are candidates who are professional, trained, decent, but they are in every sense exceptional candidates in terms of management and organisation in court affairs. These are candidates who have already proved their ability to manage and organise the work of the court by the fact that they were acting as presidents of both of these courts. Among other things, I stated that at one of my sessions, the High Council of the Judiciary made a decision on the so-called so-called. The extraordinary evaluation of candidates in this case by both colleagues and in this extraordinary evaluation of one and the other colleagues, i.e. counterpart Obatina and counterpart Jovanovic, has been assessed by the assessment, the role of the president of the court is extremely successful. What is crucial is that every general session of the court for which the election of candidates is held, or the proposal of the candidate of the President of the Court of Justice, is all the judges of that court and colleagues of Jasminka Obačina in the Court of Auditors and counterparts Jovan Jovanovic in the Court of First Instance in Belgrade, received the most convincing trust, i.e. colleagues have generally declared that they want to and suggest that these candidates also be their presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29258	Thank you very much. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29259	Thank you. This item of the sitting agenda that is under way has two features, in general terms. First of all, there are points to the agenda that rarely, but here, it happens, are essentially not a dispute between the ruling majority and the opposition. It can be a name dispute so it can challenge choice, but you don't have a dispute over political stance, and I'm not talking about human resources for the People's Bank, the Securities Commission, supervision of public finances, which my colleagues are going to talk about in the debate. It's the first feature of this session. The second feature of this session, which is probably the last or last time that the National Assembly chooses anything about the judiciary, whether a judicial function or prosecution functions. It is good to see in the context in which we have consultations on the working text of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia what is changing and why. In this address, I will only talk about the choice of judges and deputy prosecutors and the president of the courts, not about other points of the agenda, I say, they are less undeniable, and as far as I'm concerned, this is undeniable. The public works, we have a profession ahead of us, so the High Council of the Judiciary, the State Major Prosecutors, which has its own procedures and procedures for selecting certain functions. Then you come to the Assembly and what we have here, that there is no dispute on the board of directors, at the session to challenge the candidates. That you have the challenge of candidates based on a statement and that of course you have the challenge of candidates based on instructions that you have to challenge them. This is the context of a constitutional solution. I am one of the eight MPs who did not vote for the 2006 Constitution. If the constitutional amendments, which are being consulted, continue to be discussed in the narrow circle of friends, the change of the Constitution, as canada, I will not vote for that constitution again. Not because the solutions are bad, not because they can't be changed, really through public debate, but because we don't respect the right of the profession to say what it is, as we often don't respect each other's rights here to say what we have and abuse the procedure. Whether the context I share with you will change something in the voting day, in the election of deputy prosecutors, or the judge and president of the courts, I don't know, it depends on the phone and lobbying in the next, as many hours as it divides us to the day to vote. That's what's going on here. Anyone who comes out of here and makes magnificent sentences about the independent prosecution, the independent judiciary, must first explain what is happening today at this session. The profession said, on the board nothing, two disputes, and I absolutely don't mind anyone challenging any other candidates, but that's life. Not big words, that we are for an independent judiciary, but for what is happening, that the additional context for the election of prosecutors is the information that comes from one sector of the profession and another sector of the profession and brings us MPs in a position to decide. Whoever's voting with me has credibility, the Alumni Judicial Academy or the State's Major Prosecutors. Why should I believe that it's as the State's Major Prosecutors say, not as the Alumni Judicial Academy says, or vice versa. Someone will tell us who lied, one or the other, and that's the context of a choice that probably won't be conducted in this way in the country where we live. What is this state of affairs of all those who ran? They passed one process under the Law on High Council of the judiciary, under the Law on Elections in their profession, now passing the second process in the National Assembly. As much as I understand what it is when you are in front of the public, in front of your waist, I would vote for a proposal that the National Assembly no longer participates in any of the choices of judges or prosecutors, just so that no one else passes what some people are going through today. You deserve to be like that or not, it's not good for all of us. In the voting day, we will see the results of the vote both for the presidents of the courts and for those who have qualified, how we have heard that they are deputies and that they are prosecutors, and the question is what attitude each of us will vote with. I have no ethical problem voting for anyone for whom the representatives of the election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors say they have passed the criteria. My voice when it's not just for the candidate, because I don't know them, is my voice of confidence to the institutions created by the laws that we believe will establish full independence of the judiciary, therefore, both the judiciary and the prosecution functions. What would lead me, as a national MP, to say about this candidate I will not vote, a parliamentary right to challenge any candidate. Why won't I vote? It's not just a denial of the vote to the candidate whom someone has proposed it's a message I don't believe in the credibility of the election system of the presidents and prosecutors. Is that ever necessary? I don't know how to judge. Is it possible for the system in the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary to be such that it offers a completely unworthy function to the National Assembly? It probably is. But then we have a problem not only with a person who is unworthy of the functions you have offered us to vote for, but also with a system in which silences can offer Serbia's judicial system an unworthy candidate. I repeat, the context of this session is that this will probably never happen again, and for the past six months, the election of these judges and prosecutors has followed in public a debate, which is about the procedure, which is about constitutionality, which is why we now want to choose people before constitutional changes. I don't know if anyone among the people who went through the contests and checked and got recommendations deserves to be spoken of in person today. I have this ethical problem, unless it's a perfectly clear thing to do to a completely unworthy person to mention anyone's name and name with disqualification because someone told me something about him or her, or because I was instructed to say something like that about her or her. But it won't eliminate the common problem we have when it comes to the choice of judges and prosecutors. This problem indeed comes down to how much we fulfil our constitutional authority to guarantee independence and independence by the judiciary, i.e. the judiciary and the prosecution, and how much the profession believes should be positioned independently and independently. I'm sorry we don't have a dialogue about it, not just about the people we choose. What does the D.A. want? Does he consider that the position now given by this Constitution or the proposals that go through consultations within the circle of friends on the debate is indeed what the prosecution needs. What do the judges think? These are the things we miss to talk about in the National Assembly. This has nothing to do with the profession and people who have dedicated their lives to a judicial or prosecutorial call, except as someone who should come in and give us a letter of painting that should be the position of both the judiciary and the prosecution, so the profession says - these are guarantees. The particular topic on which I will be very brief are the reasons why we do not implement even to the end these staff solutions, which are again related to the working text of the constitutional amendments. All of this brings me together to have only one clear position, which is that I am truly rooting for all the people who will be elected to these functions in the voting day, and their professional life has decided to dedicate to judicial or prosecutorial office. I sincerely encourage them to be independent and independent in performing their functions. That's what they need, but paradoxically, that's what we need a lot more, that we use these sessions to have instructions, or descriptions of why someone shouldn't vote. No doubt there will be a public dispute between the Alumni Club of the Judicial Academy and the State Council of Prosecutors, and I don't think the entire Assembly is a place to talk about it. However, there would be no burning, the public works, the whole application procedure from August of last year until the end of December, which was followed by a comment of the Constitutional Court and of us who are interested, as it is said, at the level of small information, plots and gossip, why it was done last fall. So, regardless of all that, I really want to cheer people who are elected have space, have a chance to be left alone to do their prosecutorial and judicial work the way they're professionally trained to do and how they've earned good grades and that they'll be able to do them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29260	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29261	I thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, respected colleagues, fellow MPs, today when we are discussing an extremely important topic such as the human rights issues related to the holders of judicial functions, we have a situation that in one way, and I will fully agree with my colleague Komlenski, on one extremely unargumented, so I can say even in an unambiguous way, comments by people who have earned their attention by profession in the greatest possible sense of words and by people who just from the point of view of the profession and not only justify, but far more than that, deserve to be elected precisely to the positions where they are proposed both by the Supreme Council of the judiciary and by the State Council of Prosecutors. Here is something that seems absolutely unsuspecting, that Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who is not otherwise a lawyer, who is a neuropsychiatrist, who absolutely does not have any prerogative to comment on anything related to the profession, comment on the profession, and comment on a way that is absolutely unrelativable, or that gives rise to something that implies, under one, one healthy logic, and on the other hand, if nothing else, then at least ethical appreciation to comment on someone you don't know, and whose waist is behind which waist stands in full capacity. If so, and so, and inexorable are facts, then you need to start from something that implies basic knowledge of both professions and what the profession in the social sense of words means or means. To present a flat-rate assessment that someone is obedient without reading his résumé which is impressive, and we do not know what that obedience means and who he listens to, that there is not a single criterion in which the profession is challenged, and the profession in a particular case cannot be challenged, then we come into a situation where motives that are, least of all, unethical nature, and these motives can be diverse. Either someone gave the order to comment like this, or maybe someone from the opponent who wanted to be here today has just imposed such a topic or the tendency to make such a lie or something else is a third. However, the SPS parliamentary group will not engage in such motives that are truly absolutely, absolutely unfounded, which are with bad initiatives, with bad intentions and which do not contribute in any case to the quality of the judiciary, and we all have to make our judiciary credible, that our judiciary is authoritative and that this authority is carried by the people who have this authority from the point of view of the profession, and I am sure that it is the people who are on the lists that are proposed as candidates for the holders of justice, or public prosecutorial functions that are precisely the people to be chosen. I think any other comment, after what Mr. Jovicic made, is absolutely too high in this direction. I need to draw attention to something that's very important. We are today discussing candidates at a time when you, as well as decision-makers on proposals to have someone elected to public and judicial functions, were under, let's say, conditionally, the burden of numerous circumstances that are present today. First, we must all contribute to the health of the judiciary, to cure all those diseases that have been affected by the judiciary from an earlier period since 2009, 2010, 2011 until today. The second circumstance, which is also a burdensome circumstance that you gentlemen have faced, is the fact that for all this time, as we have heard today, the argumentable, flat-rate, said, states that you have faced a number of pressures on the judiciary and the prosecution, which even come from those who cannot be expected, that everyone tries to interfere in the work of the judiciary, that everyone tries to impose some of their own concepts of the work of the judiciary, that even a professor is commenting on the judiciary what it should do, that even forbids judges to present a referendum or write recommendations, that these referendums are being published in judicial bulletins, that no advice can be given in any case, and that we are really coming into a situation to worry about who is all and in any way commenting on justice, and that justice is not known in any way. How can we as lawyers learn something if we don't learn from judges? How do we as lawyers not respect the case law that the Supreme Court of Cassation, which is its obligation, will establish? How do we lawyers educate ourselves if we don't have a chance to get to know court practice through court bulletins, conferences and everything else? It's impossible, and it's one look and training and education and getting to know everything anyone who wants to do the job the right way. Thirdly, it also represents a burdensome situation is the fact that we are about to have constitutional reforms, that we are coming into a situation, and that it is good and that the SPS parliamentary group is unreservedly supporting, that the Assembly is excluded from what in no way should be out of the profession, out of the judge's, outside of the prosecutor's profession, that is, the profession takes care of itself, that it takes care of itself, and that means excluding the Assembly from the way or the decision-making model, as it is today. Of course, I will not comment on what is to come, and we are about to have something that has already failed on the profession of a certain position that should be the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary or the State's Major Prosecutor's Office because we have not yet received a final assessment of the Venice Commission, because we still do not know what all the objections that have been made through the roundtables will be respected and included in the final amendment to which the Constitution will be amended. So it would be extremely inappropriate now to comment on something that we still don't know what it's going to be when it comes as a proposal to us in the Assembly, after the referendum, after all that means respect for the procedure. However, what we must take into account in any case is the fact that as long as this election takes place and this way of choice, which will not last much longer, we must make sure that indeed those who deserve the profession are the bearers of the judicial public prosecutorial functions and have the respect of us, the MPs. Why? There are two simple reasons. The first is that there is absolutely no single reason not to trust the State Council of Prosecutors or the Supreme Council in the way of the elections. The Constitutional Court, the professional public and many others have tried to challenge your decisions, in my deep conviction – in an unargumented manner, including the Alumni Club. There are some comments that are slightly unsatisfactory – whether the minutes have been adopted or not. Well, the record will be adopted at the next session. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also adopts the minutes at the next session. This is not at all a reason for indifference or any reason to doubt the formal correctness or procedure that has been properly applied in any case. There is a rule that has been assessed by the Constitutional Court, where after that we have come to what is by the State Council of Prosecutors, and you correct me if I am wrong, finally set up as rules of conduct that can no longer be in conflict with the Constitution, on the one hand, which implies transparency in the evaluation, on the other hand, and which implies making a decision legally. The same goes for the High Council of the judiciary, because the ratings are the only rights, let's say, something that can be made by both you and us who will make the final decision, an assessment that can indeed be accepted as a real assessment of the value of either work or the quality of the bearer or candidate for the holders of judicial functions. And that's why you have support. However, what I would like to ask the representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the presidents of the courts are in a specific position, with enormous responsibility, responsibility for the work of the courts. And if the court is ineffective, the president of the court is responsible. But let's be honest -- it's not in line with what the fact that the president of the court has as an authority. The President of the Court, in a formal sense, is merely the Head of the Court's administration. He cannot, nor has the right to order the judge, to give a warrant or a guideline how to decide, which is logical and what is absolutely right. But if two different court decisions arise from one court, and they have almost identical factual basis, and perhaps even a legal basis, and thus creates unequal judicial practice, introduces legal uncertainty, then we come into a situation – who will answer for it? Mostly, the eyes of the public are against the President of the Court, which has the least responsibility in this regard. Then let's make a new rule. This new rule implies - let's set up the President of the Court as Head of Judicial Practice. Why? Because we choose the best for the President of the Court. And here we have suggested the best for the President of the Court of Commerce and the President of the Court of Commerce. If so, and so is, so is they, and in the Court of Justice and all others with this degree of responsibility, would not also bear the responsibility for judicial practice, in order to avoid that situation that can be dangerous, which is the introduction of legal uncertainty through different or unequal court practice. On the other hand, the responsibility of the president of the courts must exist where the judge is unsupervised, where he has a huge number of cases that he has not done within the legal time limit, and it is clear what time-limit it is, is not sent down or is absolutely unskilled in terms of abolishing a large number of decisions. In such situations, there must be no false solidarity, there must be no tolerance. There is a mandatory presence of zero tolerance to judges who exhibit this kind of behavior. Such judges, before the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and against such prosecutors in front of the State's Grand Prosecutors, must be given adequate action, which is disciplinary proceedings. The Socialist Party of Serbia's MP group is categorically on the view that only in this way can justice be removed from what does not contribute to the efficiency of the work of the courts and contribute to the work of courts being of high quality while citizens at the same time have access to justice. That's how one and the other goals are achieved. Finally, what I think is very important to point out is the fact that we are about to have a process that is quite complex, not to say painful, the process of not only healing the judiciary, but the process of adapting to what means harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. We have a process of passing quality laws, particularly procedural laws, on which we as a Assembly, as MPs, will contribute to making the courts as effective as possible, to make the prosecutions as effective as possible, to remove from the Law on Criminal Procedure all norms which, in some way, contribute or injure the rights to trial within a reasonable period of time, or obstruction of criminal proceedings. So we need to form a norm as it best suits an effective conduct of the procedure, both criminal and litigious. It's our responsibility. That's how we help the judiciary, and there's this mandatory line between the prosecution, the court and the legislator. If the legislator is wrong, it costs the courts, but what costs the courts and the prosecution isn't as bad as it's gonna cost the citizens. Because courts are about citizens, and they exist. I think that in this sense we have absolutely no single dilemma between courts and legislators what is necessary to do in the future, where we identify problems, and the problems exist, how to locate the standards that must be removed from the procedural laws and then bring procedural laws to that level that implies the best possible practical application of procedural laws. As far as I am concerned, and in this way I end my discussion, of these proposals, I once again have to point out – unlike the flat-rate, highly unargumented, very unethical judgments and disputes we have heard today, I must once again stand on the point that your proposals for us entail a kind of obligation. Obligations of respect for your work, the obligation to respect what you have done to come up with the best proposals, and you have done a lot, because you have had one procedure that is not even a little bit simple, where you have given enormous effort and energy to come to us with proposals that are really worth it, and we will, I'm sure, accept in the day of voting to support, as compared to the Economic Court of Appeal, the Commercial Court in Belgrade, and all other proposals for which you have made the decision that you have made, and in any case we have reason to support it. I thank you and hope that at least some of what I have put forward as suggestions in the future will be accepted in terms of the contribution that the judiciary really deserves attention from the European Union and that both chapters 23 and 24 are closed in a way that the state of Serbia deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29262	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, word has a colleague, Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29263	Article 107 — The dignity of the National Assembly. I consider the previous speaker to have violated this member of the Rules of Procedure because in his address he devoted a good part of the time to the MP Sandi Raskovic Ivić, who spoke before him, bringing rough disqualifications to the expense of her competence to participate in such a discussion. I also refer to the words of the President of Parliament, who very often knew that we were all elected by citizens here and fully equal, regardless of our professions, no matter what we do outside of the National Assembly. And as such, we must and we must participate in the debate on every agenda. We are absolutely expressing our political views here and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow us to do just that, as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows us, and every MP has the right to express his political position and to participate equally with all other colleagues in the debate, regardless of the point of the agenda. A previous speaker, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, has been fenced in advance that she is not a graduate lawyer and does not deal with the subject, but that she has consulted with people from her environment and from her political party, who are graduates and have ties with the judiciary and that they have also given her their materials and suggestions that should represent her political position. So it is okay to attack a political stance, but I find it very incorrect by previous speaker, MP Jovanovic, to discredit the possibility of participation in this debate by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivic. Indeed, there is no need for us to address one another in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29264	Thanks, buddy Nogo. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we have today, as always, a parliamentary debate. Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić will already have the opportunity to replicate to Mr. Neđa Jovanovic, so I did not notice, of course I would react safely, that he offended her in any way. Right on line, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go. Excuse me, do you wish, Mr. Nogo, for the National Assembly to come forward in the voting day? (Srjan Nogo: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to express my surprise that the previous speaker, Mr. Jovanovic, said that I pleaded, behold, on things from the judiciary without being a lawyer. I'm simply limited, because I know that he's, say colleagues I've just consulted on these election cases, a well-known lawyer, and that he was also a State Secretary, and then I'm surprised that one State Department of the Justice Department says that I've usurped and I don't have the right to present some morally ill disqualification of people that my moral character of the minority is being questioned. But, well, this is a political arena and everything that's said... We, as MPs, especially the MPs of the opposition, have the right to give our own court and qualifications to people who compete for such public and prominent positions, any one, this time by prosecutors, deputy prosecutors and court presidents. So, some of us have a good opinion, some of us don't have a good opinion, and we can say that. Of course, anyone who writes a biography will make that biography nice and every biography looks wonderful, but that's why there are professional associations, so there are people we can always ask. As for the very pressures in the judiciary itself, it is best to say that 44% of judges in the anonymous poll have pleaded to be under pressure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29266	Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Replica. ) A colleague named Nedjo Jovanovic called, but you do not have the right to reply. Mrs. Raskovic Ivić has replicated. I don't think she insulted you, or misread you, but she responded to your findings and what you said. (Nedjo Jovanovic: There is no need to ban me in this situation. I'm not defending at all, but then this can last between you and Mrs. Ivić all day. (Nedjo Jovanovic: It won't last. But I really don't have anything to give you, believe me. Please, have an understanding. The word is Miroslav Aleksic. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. I'm entitled to the Rules of Procedure. Well, you can't choose now. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Don't do it like that, it's not right, it doesn't make sense. Rules of Procedure! I apologize, Mr. Jovanovic asked for a replica. He had no right to a replica. We can't choose now to get to the point. Hold on, please. I'm in charge of the session. Mr. Alexich, go on. We'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29267	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will look back at a few things in this united debate as part of the second item of the agenda at today's session. First of all, as regards the motion for a decision to elect the president of the courts and the motion for a decision on the election of deputy prosecutors, I will not say much, given that one and the other proposals have stemmed from the organisation that is responsible for this, first of all, the High Council of the judiciary has proposed the presidents of the courts, and as far as the deputy public prosecutors are concerned, the proposal has been submitted by the State's chief prosecutors. I believe, I hope and believe that they have done so professionally, without political pressures, interventions and that people who will do these jobs in Serbia, in order for citizens living in this country, can hope to do so very professionally. In just one general matter, I will comment on it and that is my opinion and opinion of the People's Party to which I belong, which is that as far as these individual proposals are concerned, I said that I will not comment and I am sure that the ruling parties of this regime will not interfere with the election of the president of the lower level courts, such as the basic courts, because they interfere where there are great litigations, where there are great works and where there is great money. And that is something that is the sphere of their interest, and it is absolutely clear today in Serbia, that Nikola Selakovic and Minister Loncar have a very big influence there. You heard me well. It is two men who represent the gray eminence at higher levels of the justice system of the Republic of Serbia, although it is not their portfolio. The second point I would like to comment on is that we have at last at one session of the Assembly on the agenda and some proposal for an opposition, however, with more than five or six months of delay, which is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the RIK, or the Republic Election Commission. So this is about the resignation of Mr Gajic, who was a member of RIK, filed months ago. We're only discussing it today. I understand that, you were, and the state was all busy serving the SNS campaign for the Belgrade elections, but it is good that at least one such proposal is on the agenda, because it comes from the opposition. I will quote Mr Gajic, who was a member of the RIK, that 150 older persons over 110 have been listed in the polling list in Belgrade. I am saying this because people who are elected to RIK must also be aware that they will have to oppose the will and desire to influence and to create electoral lists according to political will. Also, the People's Party's legal advice has filed criminal charges against two ministers, precisely because of voter lists. It is Minister Ruzic and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, because they allowed and allowed a false change of address for a large number of citizens when holding elections in Belgrade, and of course, because of everything that happened in the process and changing the number of voters, as was the case, in the town municipality of Zveztar from October to November for 10,000 people. But my discussion will mainly focus on selecting members of the Energy Agency Council. So, seeing as that's a little bit of what we're talking about today, I'm going to pay a little more attention to that problem. First of all, as far as the agencies that exist today and operate in the Republic of Serbia are concerned, we do not know what the number is, we only know the SNS's 2012 promises that the number of agencies will be reduced to 50 from 136 or 170, as this has not been established. But it is another promise in a series, as well as many others who have been promised and given over the last six years, and are not fulfilled, from the fact that the price of electricity will not rise, that there will be no pay, pensions, that there will be an increase in wages, that there will be no RTS taxi, that all directors will be replaced, Vucic promised us that they will receive citizens etc. I don't want to make any more promises. I should spend hours on that. When we talk about the Energy Agency and the Energy Agency Council, which we choose today, I must first of all meet, probably, and most of the fellow Members of Parliament, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what the Energy Agency is actually doing and what the Energy Agency Council is going to do today or these days you need to choose. The Agency for Energy is probably in the sea of other agencies, if not the most important among the most important for every citizen living in the Republic of Serbia today, whether a citizen as a natural person or someone engaged in business as a legal entity in the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because the Energy Agency today determines the price of all network energy in Serbia, such as electricity or electricity, such as gas, because the Energy Agency brings tariff systems to calculate the price of heating throughout the Republic of Serbia in all remote heating systems in all cities and municipalities of the Republic of Serbia, because the Agency for Energy through the licence regulates the market for oil and oil derivatives, electricity and gas throughout Serbia and is concerned, in fact, citizens and businesses. It is a very important body that works, one of the most important agencies in the Republic of Serbia. What's going on? This proposal comes with a delay. Why? Because it was a struggle over the division of cookies within coalition partners throughout last year and last summer, how many members of the Energy Agency's council will belong to the SNS, to what it will belong to the SPS. All these candidates swore they were never members of these parties, but their past speaks of both being active in political organisations and having political appointments. Now I'm going to start commenting on these people that you, as the ruling regime, have proposed to be members of the Energy Agency's board. As far as the President of the Energy Council is concerned, we have received a proposal from a gentleman named for seven years. So, for seven years, his mandate, Mr. Dejan Popovic, who actually worked in the field of mining during his career, but as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, mainly dealt with union activities in the fight of employees in this area, but we can also see in his biography where he boasted that he was a consultant for energy in companies, and these companies are not actually engaged in energy activities, but are engaged in the sale of paint and varnishes, and this other one does, however, some jobs in the field of mining and energy. So it's about a mining man who doesn't have touch points with energy. Furthermore, the next candidate you proposed was Aca Markovic, a famous socialist who had been harassing the SPS for years and who had gained a condition for retirement. Now I wouldn't get into whether he's professional or not, probably if he is. A man's been doing these jobs for years, experienced in doing these jobs, but is it normal for you to appoint someone 66 years old today to be a member of the Energy Agency Council? You shall appoint the pensioner to perform the post for a period of six years and to do the job until 72 years. So it can't be normal in a state where we have a sea of unemployed people, in a country where we have absolutely certainly qualified and capable people who could do this job, for example. If he was supposed to do that, he could have been named for a shorter period, so that someone next to him was trained for these professional jobs, if no one else, could have been his daughter, who was also employed by this agency. If his daughter were a proposal instead of Mr. Ace Markovic, we might be able to accept as someone who's young, who's perspective and who's going to commit more seriously to this job. So you're always talking about how you have a sea of people, we don't know how many hundreds of thousands of SNS members there anymore, and you're setting up a man who's 66 years old to perform a six-year-old function. Furthermore, as for other candidates, Mrs Negica Rajakov, is also someone who cannot boast, at least we saw it from her biography, with an experience in the field of energy. There are few touch points, but it doesn't exactly meet the legal requirements, because it mainly deals with work protection, databases, skills and other areas that don't have touch points with electricity, gas or oil. As for Dejana Stefanovic Kostic, a lady who served as assistant mayor of the town of Nis, is known for being accused of corruption in a 660,000-euro case. So also, one very problematic setting. I'll come back one more time, so I don't drop, I forgot, Mrs. Negici Rajakov. I find it interesting to see how much she is doing in the Republic of Serbia today. He says that currently the chairman of the JKP Supervisory Board "Greying Panchevo", which has nothing to do with what the Energy Agency Council is doing, is a member of the Management Board of the Boxing Club "Prosessionalac" Panchevo, I read her biography for a member of the Energy Agency Council, a member of the Assembly of the Business Chamber of Serbia and then a member of various other groups, professional teams, parliamentary businessmen, regional Chamber of Commerce, member of the Economic Council of the City of Panchevo, a member of the Parliamentary Forum for Energy, etc. Apparently, she has time and capacity to do another important job like this. Finally, the fifth candidate for the Energy Agency's Council is Mr. Goran Petkovic, who has a particularly interesting biography to do this job. The man probably doesn't have a condition, it'll be determined later, for the election to this function and signed up as someone who already performs that function at the Energy Agency. During the first election, it was disputed whether he could do it. So, Mr. Goran Petkovic was someone who graduated from the Faculty of Law, who was the director of the hotel, who worked at the Department for Agriculture, had the appointment of advisers and assistant ministers, worked on the agrarian budget. He also wrote in his biography that he particularly emphasises participation in hard work during sanctions from 1992 to 1996 on preparation, the development of the energy balances of the Republic of Serbia for agriculture, food industry and energy sectors -- it was simply not nearly necessary; I successfully defended these balances on the government's board of directors, and later I followed and participated with my colleagues in their realisation, otherwise I find this activity very important, because in my essence it was an energy business. So, the man shared oil during sanctions and believes it's enough to be a member of the Energy Agency, a member of the Energy Agency Council. He was a member of the PKK Management Board. Does that mean that if I own a gas station, I'm capable enough to do this job? He was also a member of the Agrobank Management Board and said he was engaged in the implementation of major projects from the energy strategy and development programme for foreign company needs, but the project was not realised because of insolvencies, according to a study done by a foreign partner. So it's a biography that man delivered and thinks he can do this job. What's the point? We're getting to the point. First, I said what the Agency for Energy is doing and how important it is and what a great interest it is in sharing cookies between the SNS and the SPS. On the other hand, people who work in these agencies today receive abnormally high wages. The salary of the president you appoint for seven years is three thousand euros. The salary of members of the Energy Agency's Council will be 2 and a half thousand euros. Do you know what that means? This means that the president, during his seven years, will earn 250 000 euros, that members will earn 150 to 180 000 euros depending on the duration of the mandate, some five, some six years, far more than the president of the Republic and of all other appointed and appointed persons in the Republic of Serbia. That shows the complete nonsense of all of what you're doing today. The Energy Agency has so much greater importance, as it concerns the regulation of the oil, gas and electricity market in Serbia, and how important areas for everything we have seen that has happened in the last five, six years of your government and in the areas of electricity and in the gas market and in the part of the oil market, with various affairs, the licenses that have been granted, taken away, and this is now a powerful influence on one body that needs to be independent of the policy and which should be controlled by these areas. Also, in the end, I must say that I personally know at least five people who are highly esteemed in the field of energy belonging to the SPS or who support that policy, perhaps not their members. I also know people from the SNS who are also people who are positively spoken of in the field of energy and who were far better able to do this job, who are more professional, but who have not responded because they are capable and professional and will not allow politics to affect decision-making and state-making in such an important agency regarding the lives of all citizens, because it regulates how much gas they will pay and how much electricity they will pay and what will happen on the oil derivatives market and how much the price of heating in Serbia will be and how the price of heating will be calculated. So, I suggest that you don't embarrass yourself and withdraw this proposal from the procedure, propose a more professional, more capable, more qualified people I know you have, some of them I personally know both groups, so that you don't give down the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, to sum up all this stuff that I was talking about, you keep playing with the state, and that's what started in 2012. You won't, and you don't know how many agencies there are in Serbia today, you don't know what the salaries are, who are the people who work there, on the wings and stories of introducing order to the state, reforming and fighting corruption, you came to power. Also, lower courts today can still act as independent bodies and independent organs, but at higher levels, it's completely under the control of the government. From the story of digitisation, which the prime minister spoke of when she exhibited her exposés, she says that we have people who are on the polling list, and they even have some of them for 130 years and you say that it's all right and there's no problem and that the state is doing great. It's not okay, gentlemen, you have, SNS, among 600,000 of your members there must be people who know they're doing their job, but unfortunately, those who don't listen, who think with their own head can't even if they're members of the SNS to come to the right places and to contribute to the development of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29268	Thank you. On what grounds, I'm sorry? (Nedjo Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29269	Chairman, I have two basiss, the first is Rules of Procedure, the second is a replica. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure now. Given that you have denied me two business opportunities, the first is that you must give me a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is your obligation, Article 27, to handle the Assembly, and the second time is because you have already allowed the other MP to discuss, without giving me the opportunity to determine by what I am entitled to. In the future, I ask you only to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, because you are the chair of the session. Speaking of the Rules of Procedure, then I must draw your attention to something that you and how well you should know – all of us, and especially those who carry public functions, are responsible for the spoken word. The responsibility for the spoken word is, in my deep conviction, the greatest degree of responsibility because the spoken word here is heard by a million auditorium and if that spoken word about someone is such that it devalues his expertise, his reputation, it causes an odym into the public, and you are obliged to have a sense of such a thing and to prevent any of us, whatever his name is and whatever political party he belonged to, relations to anyone, especially one he doesn't know, from determining with disqualifications, and even to comment that the biographies are simulated, which is a serious insult, because these biographys are based on facts, on facts and extremely strong facts. I ask you to take care of it in the future, and that when the Messenger of the people draws attention to something that you are obliged to react to, that you act immediately, and not deny the Messenger of the people the right to do. I will also report for the replica, given that as deputy head of the parliamentary group, I have the right to reply to Mr Alexic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29270	You have the right to a replica this time. I owe you an explanation. So I still think that you had no prior right to the replica and far from wanting to deny you any right from the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29271	Of course I do. I'm just warning you not to make a new breach of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr Radenkovic has reported a new breach of the Rules of Procedure, has an advantage over the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29272	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29273	Thank you. Article 107, violation of dignity. I listened to Mr. Aleksic, and at one point he said that the problems in the judiciary were caused by Minister Loncar. I just can't believe a man doesn't know he's a health minister. You went over it and let him finish that sentence and move on. As chairman, you were obliged to give him a warning immediately. On the other hand, I would take this opportunity, if you would allow me to suggest that those parties that have lost two, three months do not give the right here at all to discuss, because they are not capable of rational thinking at all. A little bit, a little bit, about the election list. A little bit, a little bit, so some people who had no right to talk. Please take care of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29274	Please, colleague Yokic, I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. The MP has a right and if he didn't know, I wouldn't be like a speaker to get into it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. We have a full list. I'll delete the list. I'll take two minutes off. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29276	I thank the chairman. First two minutes of replica, then as an authorised representative. First in the replica, as mentioned by the SNS, that the judiciary worked in the interest of the SNS in previous elections, I would like to say that it is the worst insult for the full judiciary and for the state of Serbia and if someone thinks that it will gain citizens' trust, then they are wrongly wronged to cross the censorship in the next elections at all. And if someone thinks it's gonna win citizens' trust, then they're really wrong that in the next election they're going to cross the census in the first place. As for the electoral lists we're talking about, in their time, the electoral lists that the rest of us showed that people could live 129 years. At least today, they have some normal years and I think we have normal ballots so far, of course there are always some problems that need to be developed, repaired, and we'll work on that for sure. And what I would now move on to as an open topic, which is a matter of human policy, in general, of the agencies, of the Energy Agency Council and of the President of the Council. What I'm saying is that a bunch of lies packed in one 20-minute presentation and a bunch of insults to people who are candidates for such prestigious functions, one humiliation. The best three prominent experts from this area who were members of the Commission, which are Prof. Dr. Nikola Rajaković of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrović, Dean of the Faculty of Engineering and Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Orlović, Professor of the Faculty of Technology-Mellurry in Belgrade. So if we're not competent enough as the MPs, members of certain committees from here, then this is all at the address of these people we worked with together on the decisions we need to make for the choice of candidates. On the other hand, what hurts most the previous speaker, which is that the more Vuk Jeremic and Djilas will not decide on energy permits for oil, gas and electricity. Now, that is the essence of the attack on these people, because their candidates who have sat down since 2007, as members of the Energy Agency's Energy Council, have simply decided and worked more in the interest of some other countries, and at least in the interest of their country, in terms of energy policy. And what I want to tell you, each of these candidates who are proposed, and you've seen their biography notor lie that the president didn't work in the field of energy. His experience for years, over 10 years, is a condition for you to run for such a function. So, the president comes from the most ordinary engineer in the spears and mines belonging to the energy system of the economy, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, to being the secretary of state at the Ministry of Energy, to the fact that all six public debates on the energy development strategy were led by 2030. Of course, with all the factors, in the state dealing with energy, as well as as as being a member of the EPS Supervisory Board until now, until he resigned, running for a new function, he practically knows the energy in a small finger. And that's what bothers the previous speaker when we talk about candidates. And when we talk about the husband's criminal charges, the wife of anyone, of course she was rejected. But what I'm saying is that Gilas had no criminal record of him running for prestigious functions and going back into politics and getting as many votes as he had won and making a total mess on the political scene, just by covering up many of his affairs in the city of Belgrade, just by having his return to politics carried out in one unreal way with parties who had no ideological ties at all. Therefore, it shows the essence of the attack in general, and of the people who are candidates for such an important institution. And when we talk about the price of electricity, I don't want it to stay public, just one lie that kept going through this speech about the fact that the price of electricity exclusively makes a decision about it and says what it's going to be like, that we're scaring Serbian citizens about that the change is going to make an increase in electricity. The government determines the price of electricity, on a proposal also proposed by the Agency today, but it is the government that makes strategic decisions and carries ultimate responsibility before the citizens of Serbia and for energy policy as well as for any policy within Serbia and towards the citizens themselves. So all you've heard and had a chance to hear is a bunch of lies that want to personally offend people who have run for office like this. They respected all the conditions of competitions that are very restrictive, so they say they should prove their work for over 10 years in energy, that their biography should prove all this. With their confirmations from the competent institutions, they proved all of this and based on the discussions we held as a commission with all the candidates, and believe me, it was not easy for them to respond directly to five members of the commission in professional nature questions in the manner in which they were responsible and to gain our trust, given that the competition was very large when we talk about this expertise. I think that everything said simply needs to show that Serbia has no experts and that the ruling coalition has no one to run for office, which is of course not true and of course these biographies behind these candidates show that Serbia has something to boast about. After all, over the past five years, you have had the opportunity to see how Serbia's energy policy is being run and that Serbia is simply leading a highly responsible social policy towards Serbian citizens, when it comes to the price of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29277	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29278	I'm advocating a breach of members 107th and 104th. Mr. Chairman, the essence of parliamentary life is also contained in the procedure. Respect and preservation of this procedure and how it makes a significant contribution to this Parliament's working under normal conditions. You just hurt the Rules of Procedure. We've been listening here to insults at the expense of individual fellow MPs, to belittled that they are not professional in certain areas, that it can even be concluded that when we go home, we won't be able to turn on the light if we're not Nikola Tesla, that I'm not citing any more examples that might be adequate. What has completely violated the procedure is that you deliberately or accidentally set a two-minute break, when a fellow MP told one fundamental truth, as most people think. It is the true face of those who hold power, that those who lose the elections at the level of local self-government should be forbidden for two months at least to speak in this assembly. I think it's a real picture of democracy in Serbia not only of individuals, but of the majority who think about it that way. To you, who won the election so triumphantly, I congratulate the beginning of the fall of power. Let's give you an example of DS. And they're so proud of victory, but a man needs to win, when he rises he should take care of his surroundings too, he doesn't need to get that up. It must be kept in mind that when you are so high, your fall will be much more painful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29279	The word has been sent by the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29280	As Vice-President of the National Assembly, I am obliged to intervene on behalf of the Rules of Procedure and to take advantage of this opportunity to say that this National Assembly is working in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure, because this meeting has never been voted by the Rules of Procedure, but the way it is, the worst in the world is the Rules of Procedure. He who presides the session must respect him. From the very beginning, I tried to intervene with the chairman, when he deceived the Assembly and the public this morning that on behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the VSS that Mr Dragomir Milojevic would be here. I say, we get a notice that he won't, he doesn't know, he doesn't care, he has to tell us what he's planning, and if someone says something he doesn't like, or if someone wants to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, take a two-minute break. You won't get away with it, as far as we're concerned with the SRS, we certainly won't let you. They can shout there, they can hear as much as they want, they can boast of victory. You win, you see, and you know how, there's a crumb in some chain. They know how they won, but they certainly didn't win because they promised the citizens they'd do as they do, but also the packages and the ballots and the money and the deceptions and the lies, etc., but that's not the topic. We are MPs here, we are representatives of the largest opposition political party in the National Assembly and be sure that we will behave this way and that we will not allow any chairman to step on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29281	Thank you. Does Mr. Mircic and you want the National Assembly to come forward in the voting day? Milorad Mircic: Yes. (Veritre Radeta: Yes. Thank you. The word is Anna Karadzic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29282	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, representatives of the High Council of the Judicial and State Council of Prosecutors, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support this set of laws in voting day. The theme of choice to such high functions is very important and is the pillar of our country's functioning. The choice of candidates in front of us has been received by the High Council of the Judicial and State Council of Prosecutors and I would like to express my satisfaction that the candidates are young. I believe that this will enable some newspapers to be introduced into the judiciary, and I am sure that they will contribute significantly to increasing the efficiency and independence of the judiciary. I'm also not of the profession, but given that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors have worked independently so far, I think their proposal today is valid and good quality and I don't see why we shouldn't vote. I would also point out once again that all candidates received the highest marks and were unanimously proposed. I'm not going to comment on the biography itself this time, but I want the way the candidates choose. The way that is used is that the experience they have, which is – over 10 or 15 years of internships from a court exam definitely qualify them. We believe that the proposal that is before us is just, right, and that it will indeed deliver results. This topic should not be politicized, as is always done and what is normal and what we expect from the opposition. We can only remember how they used to do it, for example in 2009, when there was a judge's cut, as it was called then, 730 unsuitable for the ruling regime was left without its functions. It's a politicisation of independent organs, which unfortunately isn't sanctioned. Today it is said that we should not accept the proposals that are ahead of us, not because the candidates are bad, because we have heard that the candidates are good, that they are praised by colleagues, that the profession has chosen them, but because they are probably some extended arm of government, but we are returning to it that they are just assumptions and falses that are trying to be brought to the citizens of Serbia. We don't run reforms that way. No authority should have any involvement in independent institutions, especially in the judiciary. For this reason we can see the results in the previous elections, where we received 45% of citizens' support, which is the result that no opposition party has achieved so far, not to mention Sevojn, Arangelovac, Bor, etc. I don't want to turn off the subject and it turns out that we're liquefying here, but I just want to remind all the MPs here whom the people have chosen, that they trust us and that this is the right way, that the people said what the right way is for them, so the choice of these candidates is something that we need to support. The reform of the judiciary is very important. It is one step forward in the general reforms of the state. The government is making a great effort to make the justice system work as well as possible, to function in the best possible conditions. I will remind only that we had at one of the previous laws that we adopted, where it writes -- 20m euros are invested in the reconstruction of the Court of Justice, which has not been reconstructed in the last 40 years, then in the construction of the Office for Organized Crime 11m euros, the reconstruction of the Military and Technical Institute in Belgrade 10m euros. This shows that justice, the development of the judiciary and the independent judiciary are very important to us, is vital to the development of our society. We need to create conditions for these very young people who have been chosen to do their job the best. Those who, by the way, are the loudest, most rebelling, who don't want to support anything, have forgotten how they once ruled, what the judiciary looked like, forgot how they robbed this country's robbery privatisations, how they fired the workers, but certainly didn't forget their judicial reform, so now they're afraid that we're doing the same thing. We don't do the same. That is why we have achieved this result, which is why the people choose us and that is why we are sure that elected candidates will do their job independently and securely. We reform the judiciary precisely so that those who have done what they did before are found before the court and before justice, but independent, and let us see what the outcome will be. Once again, I stress that the Socialist Movement, the United Peasants' Party and the People's Peasants' Party will vote in favour of this proposal ahead of us, because we are sure that quality is undeniable and that the institutions that have proposed these candidates are independent. Thank you very much. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29283	Thank you, Mrs. Karadzic. Does anyone else want a word from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? Here you go, Branka Stamenkovic, just please next time on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29284	Thank you. I'm sorry I don't have panther reflexes. As for today's agenda, all of us MPs received a memo from the Justice Academy Alumni Club this morning. I'd like to talk to you about this. In advance, I ask you to bear in mind that what I criticise is not the people who are proposed to be elected here. What I have an objection to and what I'm going to criticise is procedure. In my opinion, based on this information available, not only from that letter of the Justice Academy Alumni Club, but also from the media, a mistake was made in that procedure. I'm also asking you not to take it for granted that I claim that this error is intentional. I don't know what that mistake is, but I'm standing at the point that a certain mistake was made. Mistakes happen. It's human to sin. Who works, he's wrong. It's not just the one who never does anything wrong. So after this presentation, I'm going to ask that we try, I'm going to make this mistake right so that the citizens of Serbia who are here first in mind are better off. Namely, what's the problem? On December 14th, last year, the state's chief prosecutor held a session in which he decided to elect 52 deputy public prosecutors, which we now need to confirm in the assembly today. What's the problem is that the list of people who will be elected leaked to the public through the media before that session was even held. I'd just ask the chairman if he can use that bell for whatever purpose it's meant to be, which is to calm down his colleagues in the O.R. I remind you that during this debate, a quorum is not necessary, so those who would like to chat with each other a little bit, mostly from the ruling majority, that they could go to the restaurant a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29285	Okay, I'll warn you, colleague, just keep talking, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29286	Can you calm them down, so I don't get used to them? Thank you. So, a list of people who will be elected before they are elected has been leaked to the public. It was December 14th, December 18th, the Alumni Club of the Judicial Academy immediately sent a request to the State Council of Prosecutors to provide them with a record of the session at which this election was held, since the public was excluded from the session, and since journalists who asked how it was possible that the list was leaked to the public, from the State Council of Prosecutors, replied that a list had been drawn up at some preparatory session, so that he leaked, that is, that list, the Alumni Club of the Judicial Academy, requested the minutes from that other session. What I can't figure out is that despite the fact that this was requested on December 18th, the State's Major Prosecutors, it didn't deliver that report. December, January, February, March 5th, watch out for three months later, after the whole procedure and the tension with the trustee comes the answer, that the record cannot be delivered because it is not voted. It has not been confirmed, since December 14th, the Council has not even been in session. I have two questions here. First of all, why is it that the Council is not in session? Be careful, in 2017, the Council held: January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, November, once to three times a month and now: December, January, February does not ambush one single time, and it knows that public interest is great. She knows the public got upset, so I'm not getting into whether or not the public's upset with the law. Some fellow MPs have already said that this Alumni Club of the Judicial Academy has some kind of agenda that makes it so. It's possible, I don't know. I don't need to know that, and it doesn't matter for this story. If the procedure had been respected, they wouldn't have had the space to push any of their agendas at all if they had it. Maybe they have it, maybe they don't have it. Why hasn't the D.A.'s office adopted this record for two months, and he knows that public interest is a big deal? I can reasonably suspect that the council didn't deliberately ambush and deliberately didn't bring that report, so that it would have an excuse why they wouldn't send it. Another thing I don't understand. How can you even send to the National Assembly any motion for a decision voted at a session whose record has not been confirmed? Imagine now we now vote these 52 candidates, put them on their posts by the courts, and tomorrow a new session of the State Council of Prosecutors will be held and the minutes will be broken. So what do we do? Why are we doing this? Two-and-a-half months was enough time to adopt the record, not to use it as an excuse not to deliver it. I repeat once again, I don't know who those 52 people are on that list and I don't want to know and it's not my job to know. You exist so I wouldn't have to know. But you can't ask us to blanco trust—my mother needs you to trust us. You must trust to build through respect for procedure. If the procedure is followed from the beginning to the end, no one can say a word to you. Why do you even give ammunition to anyone to suspect anything by breaking the procedure? So I absolutely don't understand why a few chances so far have not been used to make a mistake in the procedure. The other thing, which I don't understand is – why is this process of choice so untransparent? You said in the opening statement, in the address, that the rank list that was made after the competition was made was published on the State Council of Prosecutors website. The list is kind of published, but I wouldn't call it a rank list. It's a list containing a list of candidates and their assessment in the expert exam, and that's all that that list contains, and from the opening statement we all heard and found out that it's not the only criterion. There are some other grades and some other criteria. Where are those grades? Where are your criteria? Why wasn't that posted on the website? That's how you build trust, that's how you build trust, and trust me, we need that trust. We're hungry for that trust, because our judicial system has an extremely bad image among citizens and it's not yesterday. So, we all remember in 2009, we remember a huge scandal and how the lists were made in the pubs, who would be elected judge or not. If we have such a reference point and we all still remember it, we can't do anything now, not even a little bit, to cause any doubt. We need to be a hundred times more transparent and careful so this doesn't happen, in order to restore trust in the judiciary. This is how this procedure was conducted, which, I repeat, I don't care if the Alumni Club has an agenda of its own or not, I don't care who those 52 people are on the list. I have no intention of going from one to the next to seeing their biography. That's your job. I'm just interested in the procedure and I'm interested in the public work. Why was the public excluded from this session? Why was the vote secret? In which it is not secret, did you say, in your opening address, of all the nine members present, the decision was unanimously made. So it's no longer a secret vote, do we know practically that everyone voted yes. Why doesn't the ranking list contain all the criteria? Why hasn't the record been adopted? Why the record, not even adopted, was not delivered at the request of the Judicial Academy? Please, you have to understand that as a representative of the citizens here, I have to ask these questions. I ask you to give an answer to calm the situation, to calm the doubt. The only answer that will calm my suspicions – we are sorry that a procedural error has been made, we will withdraw this from the assembly procedure, in record time we will repeat it all over again, because we ourselves do not want there to be a shred of doubt. Ronka's suspicion is a bear service to those people who have been chosen. Why do they start their career with a hint of doubt? And the doubt is sown. The only way to get that suspicion out of the way right now is to do it all over again, by procedure and completely transparent. That's how we build trust, little by little, in our judicial system. You'll agree with me, that and the sparrows on the branch know that political influence on the judiciary exists, and in that sense I know it's not easy for you. Not you, not the other people working within our justice system. However, you as an institution, your job is not to wait for this political influence to disappear somehow in itself. I beg you - fight this political influence. Show me your teeth. He won't disappear on his own, but you have to fight him. I appeal, to remove any suspicion, to spare those 52 people who are on the list, the stains that have begun their career with a dubious choice, to withdraw all of this, to make it completely transparent in the public at first all in record time, that there was no preparatory session, and later it was said that the preparation sessions were not even there. So, first the newspaper is told that all these were agreed at the preparation session, and then in response to the request the Commissioner replied that the preparatory sessions were not even there. There really was a papazian in public when it came to this. And this is what the media has been writing since December. Let's calm the public down. Let's pull this off. Let the Council session last for two days, but go one by one candidate, in a completely open one atmosphere to the public, publish all the criteria, all the grades on the site, so whoever wants to watch, whoever doesn't doubt, won't even look, but let it be a procedurally clean process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29287	Thank you, Mrs. Stamenkovic. The word is Mrs. Sandra Kulezic. Since we were able to hear from the previous speaker a mass of contradictory things and questions related to the procedure in the State Council of Prosecutors, first of all, I will remove one suspicion, which is – we will certainly not give up on this proposal, nor will we withdraw it because of the procedure and how it was in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and ultimately, in accordance with the opinion of those same candidates who participated in the procedure, since in a situation where they had at least two levels of being able to object to these, the disputed ranking lists and on the final ranking lists, none of the candidates who participated in the competition did so. I'll try to sort out this little discussion in a row. I'm glad to hear that you're not taking it for granted that the State Council may have made a deliberate mistake in this procedure, but it's obvious that in this case, anything the Alumni Club quoted, or part of the Alumni Club's representatives, in their memos and their memos, are obviously believed to be so healthy for granted. When it comes to the procedure relating to the selection of these candidates, I have stated in the opening statement in detail how it was done and I will not deal with it now. The main story related to the previous debate was about the December 14th minutes, during which a decision was taken to propose candidates to be discussed today. The session was held in the offices of the State Council of Prosecutors, or in the premises of the Republic Prosecutor's Office, where these sessions are otherwise held, because we do not have room for such a thing. The session was held with the public presence. The session was attended by a representative of the Alumni Club of the Judicial Academy and a representative of the Association of Prosecutors' Assistants of Serbia. Both representatives attended the working part of the session in the debate. At the beginning of the session, a decision was made to make the decision public. The state's chief prosecutor has the right to do so, according to the Rules of Procedure of the State Council of Prosecutors, and there is no reason to explain to any justice or why such a decision has been made. The decision was also unanimously taken, with the agreement of all members of the Council. So it's not true that the public is disfellowshipped from the session. The public attended in the full part of the session, except for the decision-making work, and was able to hear the rapporteur's proposal regarding the election of deputy public prosecutors, i.e. the motion for a decision and to hear the criteria to be managed by the State's larger prosecutors. One single criterion is the criteria recognised by both the law and the Rules of Procedure and the Assessment Regulation, which is the criterion of expertise and competence, and the criterion is measured by an assessment of the examination. What's the problem with deciding in that case is that a large number of candidates have the highest score. About how we differentiated the candidates who had the highest grades and we don't have the opportunity to evaluate them in any other way, nor did we, I explained what it was that led us to define between two, three or five candidates, in some cases and 70 candidates with five candidates for a particular public prosecutor's office, why these fives and not those fives. The criteria of experience, the criteria of the type of work they did for us were significant, beyond the assessment of expertise and training. Why? Because the situation in public prosecutors at this point is extremely difficult. Such a situation has since 2013, since the increase in the volume of work, from the fact that up to, behold, the last year or two days the number of places in place has not been filled or filled in in a very small number. We are as the State Council, which is required to take care of the efficiency of the public prosecutors' work, and we are primarily in charge of this imperative, which is to improve the work of the public prosecutors. That's why we've chosen candidates who are in the highest number, you could hear this, prosecutor's assistants, people who work over 10, one candidate for 19 years, all the time in the D.A.'s office, these are people who have been working independently in cases for years, in cases where they can work, in accordance with the provisions of the CAP. They're all over the D.A.'s office. These are the people who are going to keep these items tomorrow, get new objects in work, and can continue their work to do as they've done so far. All these candidates are from public prosecutors, who are obliged to assess their work, by colleagues they work with, assessed by the highest grades. When I say the highest marks, I think about the opinions that have been delivered to us in accordance with the provisions of the law that says that the State's Chief Prosecutors are obliged to collect opinions about the candidates and we, of course, did, and we had those opinions in mind. But I say again, in the section where we differentiated the candidates with the highest marks. To return to the concrete record which is the subject of this previous discussion. So, yes, it is true that the State's major prosecutor has not adopted the report by now, but it is not true that the state council has not held meetings in the meantime. We had a session in the meantime. However, there were no conditions for the minutes to be adopted. Why? Because the minutes of the State Council of Prosecutors are not only a mere record of the number of votes received, but requires a certain level of approval and confirmation of what each member has said at the Council session when the minutes are adopted, which implies that at the next session, at which the minutes are adopted, each member of the Council who attended the session from which the minutes are adopted must authorise his part of the hearing. And this isn't the only record that hasn't been adopted. It has happened so far that it simply does not repeat the same composition of the Council at the next or at one of the next sessions in order for these records to be confirmed. It is not true that the State Council, as you have stated, has been overrun with the Commissioner, the State Council has acted immediately upon the solution of the Commissioner. We've also listed the information we're looking for, which is why we can't deliver the minutes from the session. Obviously, we didn't explain it properly. We explained it to the trustee in our new decision as we once again informed the seeker about why we didn't deliver it to him. So far, we have no new objections from the Commissioner on this matter. When we talk about some kind of secret procedure and some preliminary session, or as this group of candidates called it, which they actually produced themselves, I don't know what to tell you about because I don't know who it is or how they put together what they showed in the media. I can only assume that someone has come to say -- here, this is your list of State's Attorney Generals. No, it wasn't a list of the D.A.'s Council, I'm responsible for that. The state's major prosecutors decided at the Council session on the basis of a ranking list they had ahead of them, each of the council members, along with the biographies, along with opinions and all the other data that mattered to the candidates. So who did and how did you make that list? Why he wanted to show the work of the Council as some kind of influenced work, like some secret work, like some previous sessions and everything else, I don't know. That's a question for those who showed it. About the upset of the candidate you were talking about, on the one hand, those candidates who delivered a memo like this, I have to say that it's a very narrow circle of candidates, not even all representatives of the Alumni Club of the Justice Academy, but a small group of dissatisfied candidates. On the other hand, as far as I know, a letter from the Association of Judges and Prosecutors has arrived today, which is completely contrary to this letter from the Alumni Club of the Judicial Academy, where all the judicial and prosecutorial associates fully support the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, including a decision concerning this contest. They claim that in their opinion the procedure was not violated by anything, that the choice was completely transparent and fully in accordance with the law. So I would ask you to reconsider whether such qualifications should really be presented on the serious work of a serious state body. Thank you. Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29289	The judiciary is one of three branches of government in each country, as well as in Serbia, and certainly this is a very important topic ahead of us, especially since there are trends that the National Assembly is in the future, as the highest representative of the people and as the legislative and control authority excludes completely from deciding on the issues of the judiciary. That is why this session is particularly important today. I agree with the statements of some previous esteemed colleagues who said that when this is a subject, we have to speak objectively based on facts based on evidence and supported arguments. As always, I will stick to it in my address, because for everything I say I own both written evidence and audio and video evidence or eyewitness statements or the very statements of the people of the judiciary or the bearers of the highest state authorities. First of all, the situation in the judiciary is extremely bad, and as much as we're trying to make it better here, we just have to accept that fact. Of course, we are no better in other segments of the state, but the judiciary is, I think, the key to the problem in Serbia. If we solved the judiciary, I'm sure 70% of this country's problems would be resolved. Of course, it wasn't yesterday, and it was a long gene of that problem, and it's getting more metastasizing year after year, but the best picture of the judiciary, I think it's just the judiciary. I'm an opponent of the Judicial Academy and I've criticised her here all the time, but in this case, I'd say something that has nothing to do with their views, but only with a poll they conducted among the representatives of the judiciary. In a poll by the Alumni Club of the Judicial Academy, where only judges and prosecutors have been surveyed, 84% of judges said that the choice and progress of judges are not exclusively based on objective criteria, but that, with political influence, which is constantly potential, there are also personal connections and nepotism. I think we keep forgetting that there are both personal relationships and nepotism in the judiciary, and it should be potentiated in certainly present political influence. In the prosecutor's office, the situation is even worse. Eighty-five percent of prosecutors believe that choice and promotion require personal ties, nepotism and political ties. When we add that there is also a survey conducted at the Alumni Club, with the support of the EU delegation in Serbia, which 69% of citizens disagree that the judiciary is professional. So he believes that the judiciary is not professional, and 79% thinks that the judiciary is not biased, or that it is impartial, then we come up with data that 80% of citizens do not trust the judiciary, and that even 85% of the people in the judiciary themselves feel that the situation is bad. When the Society of Judges of Serbia's data is added to this, where an anonymous poll of 44% of judges said they suffered political pressure, primarily through the president of the courts and made decisions under that pressure, contrary to the law, then we have the best picture of the situation in the judiciary. I don't think anyone else should say anything more about it. As you know, I often know when I hear from some other political colleagues, even if they are representatives of the government, something I also represent and what I like to support and praise and I did it in December 2017. I publicly agreed and wrote an authorial text with statements by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the statements by Novi Sad Mayor and Serbian Progressive Party Vice President Milos Vucevic. On December 12th, 2017, Aleksandar Vucic said he agrees with remarks from Brussels that Serbia's judiciary is inefficient and exposed to political influences. Also, Mr Milos Vukevic, who was crucified on a pillar of shame because of these statements, and I think I am the only man from the opposition who supported such an attitude, with a great "but", said – Gentlemen Judges, asking you what the people of Serbia are asking each day, when will you start judging by the laws of the Republic of Serbia, law and justice? Whom do you swear to, judge, state, constitution and legal order of Serbia or those who fill your pockets, while in your name, who knows for themselves what time they write acquittals? Your Honor, where did you get the right for those who turned Serbia black to rob it to the last dinar, to hold the blame for your material well-being? I said it was absolutely true and that I support it, with a score of what they've been doing for six years, that the best statement by the Serbian Progressive Justice Party comes after six years. Why only when there is a decision and a judge who is not under their control, why is he silent in the case of, say, Bogoljub Karic or in the case of Canet Subotic, who happened at the time of the Serbian Progressive Party's government and that there is analogy with the case "Bubalo"? Judges can't be divided into our own and those under the control of other power centers, that's the problem here. For me, this attitude applies to all judges, not only in part, whether one clan is in the judiciary, whether the other clan is in the judiciary, and that's the key problem here. Now I would like to ask a question and get an answer from the representatives of the VSS and the DVT, whether a judge, a public prosecutor, or a deputy public prosecutor has been held liable for a criminal offence against the law by a judge, a public prosecutor and his deputy from Article 360. Criminal code? If it isn't, and it isn't, it's completely unclear why we're saying that we need to fix the situation in the judiciary, why is it that she and the representatives of the authorities are criticising the judiciary, why are they constantly amending the law, changing the Constitution, when in this country only prosecutors and only judges are breaking the law? They're the only ones who work fair, and they're the only ones who don't break the law. Is that possible? I don't know any other country in the world where it's possible but, well, in this we seem to be the precedent and best in world terms. Let's move on. Has the Disciplinary Prosecutor of the High Council ever filed a disciplinary report by the citizens been evaluated by a well-founded and initiated case against the declared judge on such an application? What is the percentage of requests adopted for the exemption of judges and public prosecutors submitted by parties in court proceedings and is this how the exemption institute is designed? Of course, it's important here who the party is and I can't count on it, for example. Andrey Vukic, who didn't like it when the judge who led his lawsuit with Asumakum, postponed the hearing. So we're talking about ordinary citizens. Is there a case like that? Apparently it doesn't exist. I ask you now, imagine the situation, that some party submits an exemption, object to the judge's High Council of Justice, for example, file criminal charges against a judge or prosecutor, and there are such cases, and all of this is dismissed, can this judge continue to be objective and treat the party objectively? Even if he's absolutely right, it makes sense that he must have some kind of revolt against such a party. To get back to the second situation. If the party submits criminal charges against the prosecutor or against the judge and the application is dismissed, in how many cases has a criminal record been filed for the criminal offence of false reporting, what does the law oblige you to do? Because you do what you do, drop criminal charges and nothing. You don't file criminal charges for a false report, because then that report would be dismissed, because in most cases, there are elements of the crime. Imagine a party that comes before the court and gets beat up by the judiciary, by the courts, by the judges, by the prosecutors, I know an X-Filen of such cases, and that party cannot be protected. Do you know the power of judges and prosecutors? Politicians, they change. So let them be 15 years in power and respond to the elections, whatever these elections are, and whatever they're set up, and when we choose a judge, when we appoint a prosecutor, he can stay in that office for 40 years, and to the masters of life and death. Extremely great power is given to these people, and there are no institutes that protect parties from such conduct. Here, now I'm going to tell you concrete examples of violations of the law by the judges, which are precisely in connection with the election of the President of the First Court or the President of the Court of First Instance. In the trial of the First Court in Belgrade, P 5892/17, this court, i.e. Judge Marina Brkic, passed the indictment of the prosecutor, including Nikola Petrovic, the godfather of Aleksandar Vukic, although the court had to dismiss the lawsuit, which Boris Bogdanovic from the office of Bogdanović-Vasiljević, where he was once the third partner was former BIA Director Aleksandar Djordjevic, although with the graphological skill of the renowned Serbian court expert, the countologist found that the lawyer did not sign the application and that lawyer admits it, the court, means, although there are provisions of the Law on the litigation that the lawsuit and any submission of the court-led court must contain the signature of the applicant, art. 98 and 192, as well as that the court will reject any submission submitted on behalf of the party by the power of attorney, if incomplete. 101st and 294, where the submission is incomplete if it does not contain all the legal elements in which the applicant is listed and signed, the court calls for the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers. How can the code be stronger than the law? Here, tell me, gentlemen of the VSS, how can the Code, which brings one association - the Bar Association, be stronger than the Law on the Prosecution or the Law on Lawyership? Article 29. The law on law of law says that a lawyer is obliged to sign every submission. The same cases, we have them, and this is very important, where we compromise the candidate for the President of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, where the same adv. Boris Bogdanovic represents the Piraeus Bank, has also made illegal decisions. Judge Maja Zivkovic, case, case 16707/10, identical situation – the lawyer did not sign an answer to the suit, nor did he sign the appeal. Please, where is it? Is that a violation of the law by the judges, please tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29290	Comrade Nogo, please come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29291	No, why is this case important now we're gonna get to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29292	There's no point in reading these individual...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29293	It's an extremely important case. We mention candidates for the President of the Court of Commerce, Mr Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic is not worthy of these functions exactly from this case you can see. As you know, there were major turbulences in Belgrade's Bar Association and there was a conflict over the control of the account between the group led by the government of Gajic and the group led by Yugoslavia's Tintor, i.e. two lawyers' chambers existed at one point. The subject where Yugoslavia's Tintor and Belgrade's Attorney's Chamber demanded a deblock of accounts at the Post Office's Savings. They made a request for a provisional measure to the Trade Court. As soon as the case came to the Trade Court, Judge Maja Zivkovic, on 06.06., at 9.38, took an interest in the case and ured to be awarded to her, which is why a proposal was submitted for the exception of the judge mentioned because her husband is lawyer Đuro Zivkovic, the business partner of the mentioned government of Gajic. It schedules a hearing earlier, however, is handled by the request, when they saw that it was a big problem, because it is not a small matter of Belgrade's Bar of Lawyers to do more damage than the benefit of the case, as in another 50 such cases, the same situation with Judge Zivkovic and the lawyer group gathered around Mr Gajic and Sead Spahovic. The judge, the court's president, counter-dates the request for an exemption at Judge Maja Zivkovic's own request. Please, he was involved in a double-crossing shop and we now have to choose such a man as the President of the Court. Is that why his trust is denied? Absolutely. Belgrade's lawyer chamber would have to react to one such thing. You see, I'd like to go back to the state of justice and the choice. We absolutely don't know anything about the candidates that you deliver to us. We can read the biographies, and if they're true, that's a big question. Indeed a great question – we choose deputies. For example, people at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and I would ask the question of the State Major Prosecutors, although I addressed both you and the First General Prosecutor's Office in writing, you never provided me with an answer, and if there is a solution to the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, you never provided an answer. Where's the public prosecutor's diploma of the First General Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Ljubivoj Djordjevic? Whether he owns a degree in law school or not. Please publish it because I'm contesting his degree. Why won't you do it? So, Mr. Ljubivoje Djordjevic, we choose his deputies, is it true that he defends deputies from acting on criminal charges against officials in state authorities, that is to say that they communicate with registered persons, providing them with calls and other letters through the state authorities they work in. Is that a violation of citizens' equality under the law? So we're citizens of the second row to Judge Ljubivoj Djordjevic. Please, these are very serious things where you all put your head in the sand and it has nothing to do with politics. Ljubivove Djordjevic was a prosecutor before you and the SNS. The fact that he is now good with the Nikola Petrovic clan, what does that have to do with it? I'd go back to those cases. Here, that's where the prosecutors sit. Madam Prosecutors, here I have the document "state secret". I've been criticizing the judiciary for two years, and I've been keeping state secrets, and I've never been invited by a prosecutor to see what kind of knowledge I have of committing crimes. He never asked me to go against me, because giving away a state secret is, as far as I know, a serious crime, where a sentence of up to ten years has been threatened. Talk between Rodoljub Radulovic and Dark Saric 27. 12. In 2008, where they have knowledge that Miki Rakic and Boris Tadic will be able to lift the warrant for Stanko Sutotic Canet by 1 January 2009, that Miskovic and Beko were more powerful, it could not be realised until 2015, when Aleksandar Vukic manages to do so and thereby repays the debt to Canet Subotic, although he... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29294	A colleague, please. I let you go. This really doesn't make sense what you're doing. I've been very correct to you. Continue in the spirit of these proposals and the way it should be, to stick to the agenda. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29295	Can we, at least most of us in this room, agree that in 2009, although both the SPS and the SDPS, Rasim Ljajic and many others, I think and JS, were also in power at that time, that in 2009, a radical reform of the judiciary was carried out, that Snezana Malovic did so and that she had to answer for it? Do we all agree here? Many judges were then victims. Why? Because it was made selectively, to cleanse those who were not like them. Not getting into whether there were those who did not deserve justice and were rightly removed and whether there were others who were supposed to be removed, the reform was disastrous. Do I have the majority support for these claims? I do. Thank you. I feel the same way, and I think we need judicial reform, so I'm going to say what kind of justice is. But I ask the question, here, again, there are the people of the D.A.'s office, this is in your interest. I have material evidence that can be sent to prison by Snezana Malovic. Why don't you call me? How did Snezana Malovic, even as chief of cabinet Vladan Batic, by order of Vladan Batic, mean, in 2001, when all this started with the judiciary, set up judicial decisions, a million marks from Smiljko Kostic, that the verdict of the Supreme Court should be annulled and that the man should be released, five million from Lalet Sekulic, from little Bijam euros, son of Dragan Tomic? So I have material evidence. Snezana Lukic, later married Malovic, recommended that Miki Rakic and Boris Tadic bring her in as justice minister. And what's the problem, which since 2012 you've been doing all the same? And it is true that this Zlatibor Lončar clan, Nikola Selakovic, Nikola Petrovic, Aleksandar Stepanovic, is taking the most and doing evil to the judiciary, not the only ones, and the US Embassy. And the U.S. Embassy has a large number of judges under their control. Here, someone attacked why they named their colleague, Zlatibor Lonchar, what they had to do with the judiciary. Here, Vojislav Seselj, I call him as a witness, he can confirm what the matter is. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29296	Comrade Nogo, really, what does Minister Loncar have to do with the judiciary? This really doesn't make sense. You deal with people on a personal basis. This isn't going anywhere. Please finish. Of course, tabloids read, you're right in your house, but don't do that...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29297	Given, of course, that you're stealing my time, I know it bothers me when the evidence comes out, to point out the story. We need judicial reform, and we need serious judicial reform, to get out of the situation we're in. And, Davery, when they implement that reform, it's gonna look like this. All the judges, please, all the judges and all the prosecutors will no longer be judges and prosecutors. Let's start over, reset the entire system. Just to tell you gentlemen of the judges and prosecutors, you know that I have a number of material evidence, I have membership cards of various parties you have, I have audio and video footage, just so you know. Take care of what justice you share, because when we ask ourselves, all citizens will be equal before the law and will be tried by law and justice. Only judges, prosecutors, perpetrators and government officials will be tried as they shared justice, according to those rules. It's important that you know. Let me talk about free judgment. You must judge by the Constitution and the law. And the ruling majority have criticised you not to judge by the Constitution and the law, and that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29298	Thank you. We move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. (Jahja Fehratovic: Can I replace you? I can't, you're not Muamer Zukorlic, Mr. Fehratovic. Marko Djurisic is not present, Sanda Raskovic Ivić is not present, Aleksandra Jerkov, no, Milorad Mircic is not present, Dijana Vukomanovic is not present, Maja Vidinović is not present, Jelena Vujic Obradovic, no, Balša Bozovic is not present, Goran Ćirić is not present. The word is Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29299	Thank you. I don't know why you wouldn't allow a replacement. It could have been done yesterday. In any case, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Proponents of these Decisions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us an important day in which we are discussing decisions on the appointment of a large number of judges and a large number of assistant prosecutors, and this requires a truly important debate. What I'm trying to say is to commend the state's public prosecutor's office for a new regulation that treats truly the quality presence of members of national communities in those districts where they make up one major majority, and this time it's something that's really quality. In the spirit of that, these suggestions, as I understand it, are two truly high-quality and important candidates from the New Market for Assistant Public Prosecutors. Of course, it would be a practice in the future. What should be working on that plan is that the same practice takes over and the High Council of the judiciary, because it would be very important in the middles that are multiethnic, that we also set up the state's public prosecutor's office a proportionate representation of the national key of judges, as we will have in the prosecution, and especially since we chose three judges for the Basic and Higher Court in Novi Pazar, which are not from Novi Pazar last year. This, believe me, has caused great mistrust, not only of the Bosniaks, but also of the Serbs from Novi Pazar, because people have been brought to the side, and there are an equal number of high-quality people with references and members of the Bosniak people and members of the Serb people who could perform these functions. I particularly underline this because the election of 300 new judges is under way, of which four judges will be elected for the courts in Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica, and in the spirit of the fact that this mistrust already exists, corrects, I would ask that the Supreme Council of the judiciary takes care of this and, of course, in selecting these new judges treat those candidates who are from the premises of these municipalities, regardless of whether they are Bosniaks or Serbs, and we know that there are sufficient numbers of quality candidates who can perform these functions. Also, during the previous period, we met very often with a strong problem when it comes to the work of judicial and prosecutorial authorities. It's a deep line of politics and crime. Unfortunately, the courts, especially in the environments I come from, are very often hostages of politicians and criminals who have a major influence on their work. I personally had the opportunity, given my engagement, to be accused and prosecuted at least 30 times by people who were from a political and criminal mile, who had no basis for it. All the lawsuits that were not related to politicians and criminals have fallen, and those that had a bearing on the people of politics and the criminal mileage have passed. It even happened, and that's what I want to illustrate here, that the president of the political party that was ruling in that period, admitted at the court that he had repeatedly sought intervention from the city's authority with the president of the court and the public prosecutor to file criminal charges and to prosecute his inexperiences. Unfortunately, it was a situation that was indeed unsustainable and that led to the terrible mistrust of citizens in the work of the prosecution and the judiciary. Also, faced with situations that, say, police do their job very often when it comes to criminals, crime, as in particular in recent cases of illegal gambling and gambling, prisons, criminal charges, but criminals find a connection in the prosecution and the judiciary and still do not process, open up, unfortunately continue to work continuously. We would like the judiciary to be independent, absolutely, of any policy and any politician or criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29300	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a number of agenda points again and they are not in line with the Rules of Procedure. These were supposed to be three wholes and then it would make sense to combine the debate that way. It's all wrong, it's bad suggestions, it's bad terms. Of course, I'll talk about it further in the debate. Here we have in the first part of a variety of agencies, directors, etc. I will recall very briefly that the representatives of the ruling coalition in the campaigns since 2012 have promised to abolish all agencies, i.e. to bring them down to a minimum and then today we have a proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it is one of more than 100 agencies, and for the sake of the public, it should be said that the salaries of these officials are in agencies between nine hundred and six thousand euros, which is absolutely unimaginable for any ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia, no matter how well he was educated and no matter what business he actually dealt with. Here you are proposing a re-election of Dejan Popovic, who was already in this post, and, of course, it did not occur to you to ask why this agency's financial plan for 2018 was not adopted, and the deadline for adoption of this financial plan is October 31st last year. So, how can you suggest and then choose a man who has not done what is fundamentally necessary to present himself to the MPs who choose him? He was obliged to submit a report by 31 May for the previous year, nor did he submit it, nor did he adopt the report. So it's something that's absolutely unacceptable, as far as us and the SRS are concerned. This Dejan Popovic, you wrote everything here in his biography, there's nothing he didn't do. You left out, the newspaper wrote under the title of time -- that's the man who takes everything the party gives him, you didn't write that he was the vice president of the SNS in Despotovac, and this is usually a non-party function, so it's declared, right? You did not write that he is a member of the EPS Supervisory Board, that he is a member of the Municipal Committee of the Greater Despots, that he is the chairman of the Supervisory Board in the "Stava Metal Resavica" and, of course, that he is president of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. I guess this is the best example of how you operate, you in power, how you propose people, what their qualifications are, and that's why there are problems in Resavica today. He was seriously involved in these affairs, but these criteria mean nothing to you. As no criteria mean to you, even when it comes to judges, prosecutors, when it comes to the judiciary at all. You know, all Serbia knows that for 15 years some reforms of the judiciary have been under way, so we have had famous reforms called Snezana Malovic, and for the then government, for the then ruling DS coalition the best reforms in the world, they have received all the praises of the Venice Commission, the European Commission. After Snezana Malovic came to the minister Nikola Selakovic, the authorities changed, and the advances began reforming the reform, and then they changed something like that, but basically everything else was the same. We need to remind ourselves of the big problems of small municipalities that today have no courts, no courts, no notaries. So, completely outsourced in the part, from the Serbian state's legal system. You promised from the current government that you would handle it. You haven't solved it. We now have Minister Nela Kuburovic in action and are now undergoing reform reforms. Now Nela Kuburovic is holding some public hearings and says it does not matter what about these reforms and future amendments to the Constitution, which are being discussed more and more, because they are asked to do so in the context of the opening of a chapter in the EU, says in a statement that it is not important what the lawyers say about these proposals, but rather important to have a public debate. Now, without the intention of offending anyone, will there be plumbers, drivers, art teachers, someone who has nothing to do with justice? Nela Kuburovic says it doesn't matter. It's important to have a public debate. We from the SRS say that this is both important and that what you are trying to please the EU will be devastating for and such poor judicial authority in Serbia. You know, all of Serbia knows, how many problems there are in the functioning of the judiciary, how many problems there are related to corruption, bribery, little bits and some judge gets arrested, some prosecutor, the one for bribery, the one for committing domestic violence, and then it's all covered up, it wasn't exactly like that, the paper after two days informs that there was something different, and then there's the end of the matter. To avoid confusion, we at the SRS are confident that there are a lot of honorable and professional judges and prosecutors in courts and prosecutors in the prosecutions. Unfortunately, the system works so that they hide in a corner somewhere, beg God not to get some object in which there is a known name, to waste their jobs and wait for some better time, to wait for some authority to say – you are a special, third branch of government, you can and must act exclusively in accordance with the law and according to the Constitution and do not care what someone in power will tell you. We can list as many examples as you like, of the bad, deliberately bad accusations that fall in court, of bad judgments, of missed deadlines. I don't know if you know, and you should know, especially you from the VSS – do you know that in Serbia emergency character disputes, such as. Mominga lasts six to eight years? Is that acceptable? It's not. Do you from the prosecution know that one of the prosecutors gets a warrant to tell him to write a criminal report against, say, Miroslav Miskovic, but let him be such that after the storm is lifted, it can all be settled and he remains unsuspecting and without serious judgment. You may not know, but the citizens of Serbia know. Serbian citizens are very afraid of the situation in the judiciary, and we say it is not good what you intend to do to get at least this first choice of judges out of the National Assembly. It may not be an ideal solution, but in the National Assembly there are MPs, party representatives who get the mandates of the People's Will to sit in parliament, but what happens here is at least public, at least every MP, the one who has something to say, says what he has on every proposal. Well, at least that way is how much good choice or fair choice is provided. Imagine when it's done 10 or 15 people, somewhere closed, no one will know who they are or what they are, then there will be more objections than the MPs of the Alumni Club, who we won't comment on, we have our own built opinions and we don't need them, we were also against the Judicial Academy, and today, and when we talked about it then, those who are now criticising us, they criticized us, that it bothers us everything that comes from the EU and here's proof of how bad it was. So, we don't miss the chance, at least to warn, to hear the public, to tell you who you're proposing, and to those who decide, don't get in a situation where when we remind you of something like this, you have to put your head down. You must make sure that no matter what your congregation majority is, that you take care of the interest, first of all, the state and the interest of the people. But we also saw that here some things were done quite far from the eyes of the public. This mentions some High Council committee, the Council of Prosecutors, and we don't know who the commission is, and on what basis this commission has decided, how those high grades, which are criteria, you don't have anything here in these proposals. We have, about every candidate you've written a particular biography. I killed myself reading, they did things, they just didn't work in the judiciary, or at first they worked, and then somehow they got out of the judiciary. We don't see from these proposals, when it comes to judges, how many convictions they have, how up-to-date, how many verdicts they've had, that's not what you're interested in, or that commission that served you, and we don't have it here at all. Now, as long as you allow, let me say something and specifically about what you suggested. First, I must, again for the sake of the public, a pearl to show, and this is on the cheek of the assembly majority, not on your part, you have in time informed - Master Zoran Pasalic, President of the Criminal Court of Appeals, his office as President of the Court ends on his personal request on July 19th. You know who that is? It's the one who was elected Protector of the Citizens, the famous patron with an average of 6.01 at the Law School, and he's since 19th of July and the President of the Criminal Court of Appeal and the Protector of the Citizens, and we've been meeting, having been sitting in parliament, has anyone forgotten, has someone done it on purpose? This is really something amazing. Is there a conflict of interest here, can a man be in two functions at the same time? Don't just explain-- don't do it, do this. We're lawyers and we have to be formalists. He's been on two important functions for almost a year at the same time. This should never have happened. You're saying - and this is what we're discussing right now by emergency procedure, we have reasons for proposing an emergency procedure, so the Committee has concluded, etc. This, dear fellow MPs of the congregation's majority, came into the assembly procedure on July 24, 2017. This is what the citizens didn't vote for either, they had no idea you were doing this kind of trouble. Next, we have, there are public prosecutors' seats here. Of course, about this proposal for Svetislav Rabrenović after the lecture he held by Prof. Seselj, it's too much to say, I just can't believe that even one MP after the fact that Seselj put out will be able to vote for this man. When it comes to the decisions to elect the presidents of the courts, we have all sorts of proposals and what I said in this general section, that here's a case to show you. Let's say we have a motion to elect a court judge in Loznica to elect Judge Milica Perisic as president of the court. The Loznica people say, who know what the situation in courts is, etc., that it is a correct woman, but also Nevena Antić, who is also very correct, and we, for example, do not have the opportunity to choose between the two and we do not have your explanation. First of all, you don't say that she applied to Nevena Antić and you don't say what her characteristics are, you say that there were more suggestions, which are suggestions, besides what you're offering, that's some little secret of yours. That's certainly not good. We have proposals to choose a decision on the election of the President of the Court. Now we have, in this explanation, you've proposed six candidates, not to read names, I'm wasting my time, even the candidates aren't as important as the principle of how you actually work. You're saying how much of the place the president of the court has been competing for, of course, we have no idea who these people are. It just can't be like that. You can't come to the National Assembly to say - you're formally voting, because you say it this way, you vote formally, and we're done. No, it can't do that. We debate to vote and participate seriously in the work. Now how and where are we supposed to dig up who these people were running for office, who applied. You say - in accordance with the provisions of your regulation, that I do not read the provision, the High Council of the Judiciary was held at a session held on 30 March, not the High Council made a decision on the extraordinary evaluation of the candidates who applied for the election of the President of the Court. Now, what is an extraordinary evaluation? From your explanation, from the biography of these people we don't see it, you didn't write it. What did you sit down and chat like that, let's do it? Therefore, the results achieved at the functions of the judge do not exist. I'm reading specifically now this proposal number one, you're saying that it's in accordance with the rule, that you've had a conversation with the candidates for the President of the Court and assessed, imagine, the candidates' answers to the questions asked, and based on the discussions with you, they've got a score of five. Is that possible? You're not psychologists, you're their colleagues, but they had to come, or you had prepared everything about their previous work to be able to decide, not to give a grade five based on conversations with them. It was said during the debate, I think it's the prosecution, that only two candidates received a grade of four because those who received the grade five went to the senior prosecutor's office. What's he saying? So, we agreed, everyone who goes to the assembly, all have a grade five, when, what happened, these two need to be in multiple prosecutions, well, now, we're going to find some two with a score of four. We're not little kids. We're very serious, and we've been taking this job seriously for years. Look what you're doing to us, for example. you propose -- Tatjana Jeremic, president of Belgrade's Second Basic Court. Then you praise what she's been doing, doing everything she's done, just not judging. She took part in some playrooms, I thought of playgrounds where children celebrate birthdays, no, somewhere judges play, games organised by Natasa Kandic and the Humanitarian Law Fund. Is it possible that someone who held a lecture at a meeting at Natasa Kandic could be offered as judge? Either you didn't know this or you don't care? She also participated in some of the casinos, some association of the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights in alternative dispute resolution. That association was founded in time by the DS. In the Management Board and the founders of the association are Djelic, Natasa Vukkovic, her dad Slobodan Vukkovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, and I don't read the others. So, this Mrs Tatjana Jeremic, she can't be a judge because she's an NGO worker. All of this, aside and a half, you wrote about her, you only praised her where she worked within the NGO sector and where she lectured. You have some very rare, normal examples, I have no idea who the woman is, which you proposed for the President of the Court in Surdulica, Sanja Stojkovic, but you described her as a judge. All we know about her is what she was doing as a judge. We don't know about others. So she is obviously neither in the NGO, nor in Tanja Miscevic, nor in Natasa Kandic, she was a judge. So, they can be discussed and they can be voted on, not on those who are not all judges. The European Commission calls them, they go in the white world. They organize some gatherings here, so it's at least those famous gatherings of judges in Zlatibor, Vranjska Banja, the application of some new law and it's completely pointless. Every judge will learn to apply a new law, but if that were the case, it's at least organised by the courts, not by them, but by those games. How can a lecture be given to a humanitarian rights fund by someone you want to be president of a court? I really hope most people won't vote for this proposal either. Most of the time, less -- more like this -- the one you've proposed, and most of it goes on the proposal of the British Association for Central and Eastern Europe, and they're taking part everywhere, just not to sit down to do something and everybody's got to decide something, to cut the trial deadline a little bit. How many candidates make an average decision a year? Not one. You have no proof. You're not showing us that. Only for two candidates did you write an average with which they graduated from law school. One's 9.06, one's about seven and something. Now we're wondering, these others whose biography data you're hiding, are they all like this Pasalic at 6.01? You're doubting maybe some good results. So you did this over your knee, and you had time, like the congregation majority and the congregation board, had time. We've had all these suggestions a long time ago, that's true. The latest, sometime since the end of October. So it was time for this to be done so that we as MPs would get serious suggestions so that we could qualify to discuss these proposals. We heard the board president talking so casually this morning that we have proposals here for deputy public prosecutors, we have proposals from some judge president, we have some resolutions, so I don't know if anyone's gone to any other post, I guess someone's retired, I don't know what the reasons are. He says it doesn't matter at all. Imagine, it doesn't matter why we're voting here, is there going to be a judge or not? Is that what he wants? So if it's his wish, what made him do it? Maybe it's just that he couldn't take any more pressure if he's somewhere from the inside, those local jills, who don't break out of courts that the judges can't move from, but they have to judge what they tell them to. There is no better situation in Belgrade either, only a little more elegantly done. So, you don't work, you're not good at suggestions, it's hard to define yourself at all, and if we wanted to vote for someone, when we don't have a full biography, we don't have the documentation. Some judge used to be, so he wasn't, so he was, and we need to pick him for the president of the court, and we have no idea if in the last six, seven years, it's about the time these British agents started, Natasha Kandic and the others were dealing with judges. Since then, we don't know if any of these people have had one judging day? Did he listen to one witness in that next day? Did he make one decision? How'd those decisions go at higher court cases? So, in this way, the data discusses proposals for the election of judges and for the election of the President of the Courts, not because you sat down and talked and said – based on the talks, it was really a hit for me, based on the talks everyone got the grade – five. What were you talking about? What were you talking about? It really doesn't say that here, but it's something that's not good. So the SRS proposal is obviously not in a hurry, because if you were in a hurry, you would have ended this a long time ago. You would have ended up gentlemen from the congregation's majority seven months ago, six, four, three, so many of these proposals in the Assembly, and since you're not in a hurry, then nice things to come back so that people can make suggestions, get the right information, get the arguments "yes", so that we can come out, possibly with the arguments "against" or to accept your arguments "yes". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29302	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go. Injury of Rules of Procedure Muamer Zukorlic. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29303	Mr. Marinkovic, member of the 107th National Assembly. Please, I expected you to respect the unwritten rule of collegiation when one MP is not currently in the O.R., and it is up to him to speak, to replace himself with a MP from his party. Today, in my case, you didn't respect it, even though I'm going to tell you that I've been able to perform a major Muslim prayer on Fridays, jumu spread, so because of traffic, I haven't been able to take advantage of my right of MP. So I would ask you to respect the principle of equal treatment for all MPs in future chairing this House. On the other hand, this is, in fact, an indication that our request to the president and the National Assembly presidency, to allow prayer space in the building of the National Assembly as soon as possible, in accordance with the Constitution and the relevant laws. In fact, that what we got in 1936 and had all the way to World War II, at least one part of us get back. I expect you to put aside the frustrations of your party and our relations with us in the Party of Justice and reconciliation as you chair this House, so that we can use our rights in a positive spirit and represent the citizens who chose us. Today, I have not been able to use my five minutes as an independent MP thanks to your relationship, the lack of affinity to treat all MPs equally. I'm asking the National Assembly to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29304	Thank you. Since I owe you an explanation, first of all, you and your colleague Jahja Fehratovic should know that we have a list here and that we are acting in accordance with the procedure. Of course, in the spirit of tolerance, parliamentaryism, primarily the president of the National Assembly and everyone who holds the presidency, when they have the opportunity to do so, try to be tolerant and to meet all the MPs, as far as possible. Only if your colleague Jahja Fehratovic had spoken earlier, had he come, had he asked, it wouldn't have been any problem. I don't know where you are. You, by the way, are required to be in the National Assembly, to be present. If I'd known you had any other obligation, if I'd been informed of it, especially if you'd been bowing, there wouldn't be any problem, we would have replaced it, and you'd just have a chance to talk. But you can't advertise it like that. Honestly, I didn't even hear what the man told me. He could've walked up and told me to do it. So I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. From what I've heard, you want the National Assembly to come forward. Thank you. (Jahja Fehratovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Comrade Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29305	Dear Chairman, there are no unwritten rules in this assembly. There are rules we follow or not. If someone doesn't know business procedures, it's a matter of his lack of information and ignorance. You can't manually change the order of people who talk here. I pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, I raised the Rules of Procedure, but you didn't see it, because an MP who wanted to change handball, otherwise he didn't even stick to the agenda. You might not have listened to what he was saying. Namely, he abused this congregation and these people here. He put his personal problems with the law here, the day we discuss the prosecutor's choice and thus directly pressured him and did everything we stood against here. It's an influence on the policies of the judiciary, against which we are all here together. Please don't listen to what people are saying. If he's called to court for that, and he's still defending himself with his immunity, well, then we have a serious problem. Please strictly comply with the Rules of Procedure, which has been injured several times here. And I was bowing jujum and I was at the juma spread. What does that mean? So I got here to listen. And I stand for it, and all the Muslims here claim there's some space, but they don't even have it Orthodox. So either we solve problems together, and we don't promote it for political purposes and get political points at it. What Mr. Zukorlic is doing is political promotion and abuse of Islam for political purposes. Please don't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29306	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Obviously, never enough tolerance. You can't please everyone. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. Here, the word is Jahja Ferhatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29307	I'm advocating Article 103, the Honorable Chairman. I've told you several times, and it's not true that I wasn't trying to tell you to replace me and Mr. Zukorlic. Mr. Arsic also tried to point it out to you, but you ignored it. That's why I think you've done it on purpose, so I'd like you to make your point by this article as well. As for what my predecessor said, it's not true. He didn't listen well. I was talking about the phenomenon of political and criminal connection with the judiciary and the prosecution and cited a concrete example. So it's obvious, too, if someone who's the president of a political party and someone who's currently in power in one city... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29308	Comrade Ferhatovic, you are now replicating. You've indicated that I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to tell you that I really didn't do it on purpose and I'm trying to make sure everyone always has the exact same treatment as they deserve here in the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29309	I do. I was just explaining what you didn't hear correctly, and what your colleague heard wrongly, so you'd know what it was about. So I was talking about a phenomenon, not personal or any other matter, because it's a political and criminal conflict with the judiciary and the prosecution on that ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29310	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29311	Article 107. Mr. Marinkovic, you're acting selectively again. So, you're allowing your fellow political party member, who reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure before I entered the O.R., to comment on my performance. You're not stopping him from telling him he's abusing the Rules of Procedure, and you're interrupting Dr. Ferhatovic at half the discussion, distracting him for a similar phenomenon. So please, when you sit on the other side, don't be members of the SDPS. Be the chairman and then you'll have our full support. That's our attitude. The rest shall be in accordance with the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29312	Thank you. I'm really trying to have the same treatment for everyone. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29313	Thank you. Although it is not uninteresting to see how within the ruling majority there is a spark. But that's all in the assembly. It is even more interesting to listen to the reactions of the MPs. So the procedure is culture, procedures and procedures. If we look back at this debate, we would see that we were mostly talking about procedure and procedures and what is otherwise folklore in the congregations and what may be the main argument that neither the first elections nor any choice in the judiciary nor in the prosecution will be in the Assembly, that there will be supervision, of course, of the quality of work, as must be supervision, but that we can arrange procedures and procedures in such a way as to be unequivocal, that there should be rule of law, and not rule by law, as we sometimes need to change procedures and procedures. Why do I find it important to share this with you? A colleague, Verica Radeta, mentioned an almost folklore detail that really has nothing to do with election members or the Grand Prosecutors or the High Council of the judiciary, about Zoran Pasalic's resignation. Hypothetically, most people may not confirm their resignation. And what will we have in the “office Messenger ” published? Caution in selecting procedures and respecting procedures because it is good for all is a job that is exceedingly ours, but without your participation in this business, in creating a culture of security legally so that all procedures are known in advance as how this culture was built, we will all be at risk, we here in the Assembly with our lack of good procedures and procedures and you in each sector, in this case the judiciary and the prosecution. Why do I think procedures and procedures are the most important thing to remember from this debate? Not the names, not even this hypothetical thing that is possible not to confirm the resignation of Zoran Pasalic. Because we don't have clear procedures for changing the constitutions that await us. They're gone, they're just gone, so there'll be either interpretations or they'll be willful because we'll put people first, and then we'll put in procedures and procedures. It's a shame how people get away from you, so you run out of procedures and procedures. I cited Mr. Zoran Pasalić's resignation as more of a folklore example than I really think his resignation will be voted on, but it's important to remember that such things can happen to us completely unnecessary and that they complicate the competences of the National Assembly. As for the procedure, one announced abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly chairman, the majority decided to place the agenda. There is no procedure to inform the office that I will be authorized for that part of the agenda when you put it on the agenda. I know it can't be oral, but here, in some future work, let's assume cases like that. Thank you to the representatives and the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors for their patience, with us MPs. I can't imagine the impressions you'll get out of this room, but whatever impressions you're taking, we don't have anyone else but each other. Whatever you think of each other, and whatever sounds funny, it sounds like what I'm saying, but there are no other people to establish procedures and procedures to control and monitor procedures and to build together and build a rule of law, not because of us, now here in the Assembly and you in the judiciary and in the prosecution, but because of those who will come after us. That's what this generation is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29314	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has Srdjan Nogo. Here you go, buddy Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29315	A lot is said about the independence of the judiciary, the need for a rule of law, but it is very simple to establish it. We have good laws, we need to possibly perform a few modifications, bring maybe one, two, new laws and, of course, execute that reset system. Now imagine one situation, neighbouring country - Albania. In Albania right now, 80% of prosecutors cannot prove the origin of the property and want to arrest them. I would like to ask the question, how many judges and prosecutors could prove the origin of their property or related persons with whom they are in close relations with Serbia. It's a very interesting question to be answered. I'm sorry I didn't get an answer from the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council, and here we are, today we have to pick new people to judicial office, whether they choose for the first time, whether they choose for the presidents of certain courts and what kind of message we send them. When he already had a serious problem in the judiciary, and what's worst here is there are serious tendencies that the National Assembly is completely excluded from the possibility of affecting the choice of justice which is a disastrous thing, because these judges and prosecutors are going to choose themselves, when we saw that they are not going to pursue criminal proceedings against their colleagues and when we saw that they themselves say that nepotism and personal interests rule. And when we see that there are many abuses. Imagine a situation. We have here one judge and one prosecutor, that this case should happen to you, that you are a prosecutor, and you are a judge, and that the prosecutor removes the material evidence from the case file, rips it out, that the judge keeps it for a couple of years, that material evidence is destroyed, that they tear and put in second cases of the case file, and nothing at all. Now, that's what happens in Serbia's courts today. And, when criminal charges are filed against Judge Marija Jankovic, Debeljak and Sofia Radak, the prosecution is no longer acting, and there is such a case in Serbia. We're talking about the tribunalalization of the judiciary here. Do you know there's a case here like the Hague Court? In The Hague, lawyers were imposed on people, although they did not want to impose lawyers. We have the same case with Judge Maria Jankovic Fatjak, where besides the elected defender, she imposes a lawyer on a man. It's a picture of the Serbian judiciary and I'm trying, and now I appeal to the citizens, but also to fellow MPs of the ruling majority, because I know there are colleagues here who understand very well what I'm saying and share my opinion and my views. We can't let that happen, we have to fight it, because I repeat, we as politicians have a certain career and we last as long as we last. Do we last one, two, three, five terms, whether we are power, opposition, and it ends. But the judiciary as a branch of government is too important to make it impossible for citizens to in some way exercise control and control over that work, because I'm going to remind you, that the judge should be independent or prosecutor, doesn't mean he needs to be irresponsible, and here they're just fighting for irresponsibility, because we've seen that there's no responsibility. I'm sorry there's no one from the NBS and no one to defend those agenda points, because we've prepared a number of documentation here, as well as for the judiciary regarding banks and bank operations. So I'm just going to be able to look at certain facts for a short time and point to the most pressing problems. We have a case that about 36,000 I thought were 22, but it looks like 36,000 people are in charge of Swiss francs and there's a connection between the judiciary and the bank. I wish people from the NBS came to explain to us what they'd do about these people's fates, as if they didn't exist. What should these people die, let us help them as all other states have helped. The judiciary is here to resolve the situation, because we cannot have this contract as nothing, and in all the countries of Europe and the environment is nothing. We tolerate banks here. Why are we tolerating? Because we have evidence that judges have the status of vip clients at banks, and now tell me how the people of the judiciary can be vip clients, when all the courts are in blockade. The justice ministry is in a blockade and as far as possible and as many times as possible, since we pay 10m euros most often because of unfounded and illegal detention, when a regression by the judge for the illegal detention, although the Law on Liaison allows it. The state has never initiated a procedure to make up for it. These are serious problems. No one's gonna talk about it. The banks here do what they want and keep a lot of people in their hands, including the judiciary. No bank has ever taken credit in Swiss francs. I have a confidential report from the KPMG, the auditory house, which proves they've never been in charge of Swiss francs. I'm sorry there's no one from the NBS to answer me, because here I have information that they label as official secret, but as a secret they don't deliver to anyone, based on availability information of public interest. How many banks have been punished? Very little, and even fewer of these penalties have been carried out, for in court proceedings they are released. This is a key problem, so the judiciary is a key problem, and so is the banking system that is occupied here and the banking system was first destroyed when the country was occupied after 5 October 2000. And to this day, the same situation is with both the judiciary and the banking system. I blame the SNS for doing nothing to change that. I've known many of you since before you were in power, and I know what your opinion is, and I know that you know that what I'm saying is true. It's the biggest tragedy of our political scene and the situation we're in. As far as the judiciary is independent, I would refer to another fact, Deputy WikiLeaks, which show that under the influence of the US Embassy Bagzie, the status of witness associates is assigned in one of the most significant proceedings, which is the trial for the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. The U.S. Embassy, everyone forgets that, too, has a huge involvement in the judiciary. So, there is not only at this point in the SNS and they do not only have political parties as in previous authorities, but since 2000, the US Embassy has a very strong impact today, and that is another problem that we have to face. I know there's a struggle here for power over the judiciary, whether it's going to be controlled by the Wolf or whether it's going to enable him to take over the American Embassy. Let's make it a system for the citizens of Serbia to control it, because believe me, you're in power now, but tomorrow when you're not in power, you're going to have a serious problem with the same kind of justice that isn't within the law. Miroslav Miskovic could arrest in Serbia who he wanted while he was powerful, and now that he was on the other side, it became clear to him how important independent justice is. Think about it, because everyone has to be interested in having a functional, efficient and independent judiciary that works under the Constitution and the law. It is a key thing in Serbia at the moment, but to return to certain specific cases. We have a specific question, but unfortunately, as with the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, where people appeared, at least they showed up but silently, they don't answer, there's no one to defend measures for proposed persons for the NBS Council where only we had a candidate next to the SNS. What's controversial, and I agree that the SNS should give the candidate, you have the power, you have the majority, and that's normal, but what's controversial, is a man of continuity with the previous period. What about that fact? Why don't we just act on it? And here it's tolerated by banks, tolerated by NBS. Jorgenka Tabakovic is responsible, and the president of the Republic has the right to propose a candidate for governor of the National Bank. What will he do about it, and will Jorgenka Tabakovic, as the most responsible, bear any sanctions because banks do what they want? How much is Jorgenka Tabakovic's interest and how much does she get every month from the banks?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29316	Thanks, buddy Nogo. Dusan Pavlovic? He's not here. Tatiana Macura? She's not present. Sasa Radulovic? He's not there. Anna Stevanović? Present, he doesn't want a word. Alexander Stevanović? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29317	Ladies and gentlemen, I could re-expose you about 15 months ago, when we were also talking about the choice of judges. It is indisputable how significant it is that there is no doubt about the election and the judges and the prosecutors and the deputies and all the judicial authorities. The security of citizens being chosen is the very best of the best is something that significantly raises our country and in the light of people who want to invest in Serbia, who want to deal with business, who want to do anything in Serbia. One of the best things our country can offer is legal security and it costs nothing. It is important that there is no doubt about the candidate's election. If only the whole thing and the whole table were done a little bit more transparent, it wouldn't be that and that's too bad. Not that we think you didn't give your maximum, but the damage remains. That's not a good thing. Also, there was talk of selecting criteria. It doesn't matter if the criterion is that it's simple or that the criterion is that it's extremely complicated. The important thing is that they're all rated according to the same criteria. However, if the criterion tells you that they all got fives or got a very large number of fives, then in fact, that criterion is set too low and it's not possible to spot some of the fine differences that exist between the candidates that I'm assuming are good, or the risk remains that we may have chosen between several good candidates who are not superheroes of the judiciary, and that we failed to choose some who might better respond to the needs of the moment. That's one principled remark. I say, that same exposure was 14 months ago and it would be good to think about it, because we are being followed by judicial reform in a recent period and that is one of the demands of our European integration and that is something we will have to do. Some of the things we're talking about, when it comes to changing the Constitution, we won't have to do to become a member of the EU, but the way the judges choose, we will and must change. That is why it is very important that even before we start these changes, to think carefully about how we choose judges and avoid traps, because we have had one disastrous reform of the judiciary, which is costing us a lot today, to avoid traps that in the future reforms that will be reflected in the amendments to the Constitution, we do not do the wrong things and not just do it because sooner or later the EU will ask for these changes from us, but because we are working to have an important resource in our society, an independent and efficient judiciary. Little is a good call for someone to come and do business in a country, such as an independent and efficient judiciary. There is another point and it is about the election of the president of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Board. If, perhaps, for the way it is managed by some segments of the NBS, I could also have some criticism, too, that the NBS in some areas appears really as a brakesman of reforms, for example when it comes to "scrawd fanning" where our innovative companies cannot collect at no great cost of funds around the world. When it comes to payment and competition systems in these systems, when it comes to selecting the Board of Governors, I can't give a bad grade, more than that. One of the good things that this government did, when it chose its current governor, I hope, did not interfere with her work, because the governor is independent of the executive and the independence of the Central Bank is a postulate in all the countries of Europe. I think it is in Serbia. It is a scattered one of the greatest illusions that we have served in Serbia for 12 years, which is that the governor is a miracle worker and that only miraculous and magical governors can make a country without inflation. Without the story of miracle workers, we now have a country where there is no inflation and a country where the inflation rate is such that Serbia is close to the convergence criteria or master criteria, and that is one very good thing. When we talk about a candidate for President of the Board of Governors, it should be said that this is the first thing in the description of his work, which is the proposal and the course regimes and the consultation on matters of importance concerning monetary policy and the proposal of the NBS strategy. On the other hand, we can say that the proposal of a candidate who has led that function so far is one move that is good and another perception of principled character, since we are all serious MPs, and I believe that such a large majority here, if not all MPs, read the biographies of people who are candidates for other bodies. A serious state, when it has serious competitions and seriously assesses candidates, is desirable to have something that would be called a comparable pattern. One of the good things that the Serbian system of choice of people in public functions should have, is something that would be called a single CV form or biography in Serbia, where you can watch more candidates who apply parallelly, have a structure that is easily comparable. Right now we have candidates who write literary forms, they can be very good candidates, and you have candidates who use some forms that are dominant in the world, some candidates who do it in ways that they think are logical to them. If we had something called a Serbian form of biography for public functions, it would be easier for all of us to compare candidates, so we see at the point of the 4th school prepare, at the point of the 5th is informal education, at the point of the 6th is experience. What is being put in the context of experience is the position, who is the contact person and what were the tasks? In this way, it would be easier to compare the candidates and then really make sure that nothing has been missed in the analyses, and that is not a particular job, because it is also waiting for us in European integrations, where for years we have something called the European CV form. For candidates who are proposed to these functions, I can only now congratulate the choice that will take place today and wish them much success in the positions they will be elected within a very soon period, and thank my colleagues for the attention during my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29318	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29319	Thank you. To rely on the debate we had, first of all to thank me for getting the clarifications in detail and the answers. I'm more clear on the situation now in a procedural sense than it was before your answers, by having to react to the part about the criteria and the ranking list. So, as I said, that ranking list only has published reviews from the expert exam, and you said there are many other criteria to make a difference and they are not published. I appeal that although the law prescribes only the criteria of expertise, everyone, and those in the rulebook, is published on the ranking lists. It doesn't say you can't publish it anywhere. That's very important. Increase, please, transparency in work. Hang up all your biographies, all your grades, all your criteria. This way it's not clear to someone who goes to the site and looks at that ranking list. The second thing, you said that representatives of the Justice Academy Alumni had a representative at that session on December 14th and that he was present during the debate and was only asked to step out of the process, as it should, at the time of the secret vote. I have to tell you that they reacted very transparently. It's not personal to me. It's on Twitter. They responded – our representative came to the session, but soon after the opening he was disfellowshipped before any debate on any candidate. He didn't hear any names at the session. If there was an argument, then it was classified. Look, I really don't care who's telling the truth or who's not telling the truth. The only thing I see here is someone falsely testifying. There were 11 present persons, nine members and two from the interested public. All 11 people are closely tied to our judiciary, and someone is falsely testifying, because we have opposing statements about what happened at that session. I ask you to procedurally find a way to establish who falsely testifys for the sake of the citizens, because of our judiciary, and if it is not possible to proceed, establish. I call on the media to put pressure on themselves, to turn around who's telling the truth here and who's falsely testifying. It is unacceptable for people who are so closely related to the judiciary to have conflicting statements about what happened at that session on December 14th. I repeat once again, I'm not holding sides with you or them. I'm just worried that we've even got a conflicting statement on that occasion. I urge him to endure to the end. As for transparency, I can tell you that your exposure in terms of trust was very convincing, but still at the level of "my mother." Please, let's see all the criteria, that we don't have to blanco intuitively trust anyone, but based on the fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29320	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29321	Dear fellow MPs, a large number of Serbian citizens when they are in court and before prosecutors are legally ignorant, without any economic power or political power, they will be alone and you must imagine yourself in such a situation. Also, a large number of judges and prosecutors who are savingly and accurately doing their job are unfortunately accomplices and silent because they do not want to be resented by colleagues, power centres, interests or political parties. They also commit a crime because the law obliges them to act as officials when they learn about the existence of a crime they must react. This is your picture of the judiciary today, the key problem of Serbia. A huge number of citizens suffer from courts, and we have to deal with them. The task of us as ambassadors is to settle it. If this ruling majority will not, the Serbian Dvora Movement has courage and can deal with the problem and I told you – a reform that awaits the entire system.. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29322	Thanks, buddy Nogo. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29323	Thank you, Chairman. Today, at the end of the debate on these agenda points, I would first of all like to congratulate the representatives of the High Council of the judiciary for carrying out a very responsible task, and today they have explained this task within the meaning of the proposal of the candidates and submitted to the National Assembly for the vote. What remains as a central topic of today's debate is precisely the choice of judges, the president of courts, and that is what needs today and to all those who will assume this function to be the future, the ways in which they will organise courts, so that judges make decisions that will truly restore confidence for Serbian citizens that there is justice and justice for each individual in Serbia. I think that each of the MPs has such an attitude and that each of us has had some experience that hurt us deeply when it comes to the judiciary and we think that this is the way to actually finding the best solutions for our judiciary to be effective and in line with European standards. I congratulate you today on this work, and I think that all those who are elected today should in some way understand that there is too much responsibility for them and I think that this job will be done with extreme honor and honesty. What I wanted to answer to certain of my colleagues, and I think it is necessary for the public first to say that I am sorry that my colleague who went out did not know that candidate for President of the Energy Agency Dejan Popovic was not the president of the Council until now. For the past ten years, Ljubomir Macic, who has indeed failed to submit a financial plan, or the committee responsible has not adopted the last plan for the simple reason that he did not comply with the payouts made at all by the Government of the Republic of Serbia because he has other regulations and other documents on which he pays his salaries, and thus came into a certain form of violation, not by his mistake, but by the error of respect of the law, rather than by respecting decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia because he is in the power of work of the Assembly and not by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why we should change certain things when it comes to the work of the Agency itself. It should also be said that the Agency is the only regulator and therefore it must exist. When we talk about the judiciary and the NBS, I think it is certainly one of many ways to resolve the issue of credit for people who are in Swiss exactly the one who is the NBS doing, which is a step by step working with banks, because every other solution requires payment from the Republic of Serbia's budget, means that 50,000 users who simply have such contracts as natural persons would have become overly burdensome to all Serbian citizens, and then it would simply not be correct to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens who are taxpayers, and we are all taxpayers, so that the only solution of the NBS and courts is to co-operate on these issues and to simply introduce, by their own measures, each bank in a certain way, the proper regime of work when these credits are concerned. Finally, I would like to thank certain MPs of the opposition parties who have realized that certain proposals should be supported, such as the Presidents of the Board of Governors of the NBS and such as the Director of the Board, and I hope that indeed, as the Agency for Energy itself is the choice of judges, they will, in the day of voting, support these solutions that are proposed today's sittings. Thank you for being present today as guests at this session and thank you to all the colleagues who supported today's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29324	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. I am concluding a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 19 to 32 of the agenda. I thank the guests and their contribution to today's work. I'm setting a five-minute break. Thank you. [[after breaks]] I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. Pull your cards out and put them back in the system. I declare that 135 MPs are present in the O.R., in fact 137 at the moment. Dear Members of Parliament according to Article 168 paragraphs 3 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly during the session of the Assembly may be made extremely urgent on the agenda of the session to put forward proposals for the selection, appointment and resolution and termination of the function provided that the sittings are attended by most of the total number of MPs. Any proposal for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure shall be decided by the National Assembly without delay when setting the agenda, or at the time of the sitting immediately following the receipt of the proposal, provided that the meetings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. Since the procedure has been followed by proposals on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the SNS parliamentary group and the motion for the resolution of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Svetislave Bulajic, who submitted the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 9 March 2018, with the proposal to be adopted by emergency procedure during the session, and bearing in mind that today's session is attended by most of the total number of MPs, the conditions for the National Assembly to be made known on all these proposals. In line with that, we move on to a decision. Member of the SNS Group, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that it be placed on the agenda of the current session of the meeting – Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136 MPs, against - two, seven of the 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Member of the SNS Group, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that it be placed on the agenda of the current session of the meeting – Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for - 136 MPs, against - four, six out of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, based on Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that it be placed on the agenda of the current session of the meeting – Proposal for the resolution of the Secretary General of the National Assembly of Svetislava Bulajic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 9 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: seven of the 147 MPs did not vote for – 134 MPs, against – six. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Before opening a single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and the time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. Does the proposing representative, the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, president of the SNS parliamentary group want a word? (No) Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. We move to point 34 - Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. No one checked in. In accordance with Article 92 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. Does the National MP's representative, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. Point 35 of the agenda – Proposal for discharge of the Secretary General of the National Assembly of Svetislava Bulajic. Before the search opens, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a search on the motion for the resolution of National Assembly Secretary General Svetislava Bulajic. Does Proposer Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly, want a word? She's not present. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29326	Here, we have an emergency situation. Of course, the Rules of Procedure foresees such an option, but I would like to ask a question about this point of the agenda – why such a haste and what is the urgency and urgency of changing the secretary of the National Assembly? I think it's a really weird situation, because, I repeat, when we made this call, it was you, or Maja Gojkovic who proposed the current secretary general and this ruling majority voted her. Of course, it is your right to appoint the Secretary-General, or the right of this ruling majority to appoint the Secretary-General in accordance with its political will, but it is also the right of all of us MPs, all 250 as many as there are from both the authorities and the opposition, because the Secretary-General is not a irrelevant function and in the operational work of the parliamentary groups we are very often directed to the General Secretariat, so that we are not simply surprised by such an extraordinary environment. I also find it incorrect what you do and how you act. Because I repeat, you chose this woman. It's not disputed that you can resolve it, but I think you're doing it in an extremely incorrect way. I would like to take this opportunity and point out that it is indeed a bad atmosphere in the Assembly, which is most generated by Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, who is obviously the initiator of this shift and mediates probably some personal conflict. Of course, as an MP I'm not informed and informed, I can't bring a court case about it, but... (Blessed Prince: Have you spoken.) I have the right to speak, I apologize, for the secretary general is not a irrelevant function. It's all right, but as long as I'm a MP, you can't deny me the right to speak, because the citizens chose me. At that moment... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29327	Comrade Nogo, no one's denying you your right. Go ahead, go ahead. Mrs. Gojkovic is not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29328	Article 106. The Rules of Procedure would require that you press that bell and ask your colleagues to be calm and finally be polite and this point to the end as soon as possible, because it is not my intention to speak here for long, nor is it my aim to make this situation more unpleasant for the current Secretary-General, but simply, as a MP and as an authorised representative of the Davery Parliamentary Group, I cannot look down on such a situation. I can't help but point out the real bad in the National Assembly. I would say that a number of SNS MPs have told me that the main responsibility for the poor situation in the assembly is at Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. Many of the people I speak to in private in the congregation have confirmed it to me. As for the Secretary General of the National Assembly, Svetislava Bulajić, we were not often in touch, but I have to thank her for working together for the past two years, especially since I was a second-year student of the Faculty of Law and I was able to practice constitutional law with her and for nothing we agreed on. We had opposite political opinions on every issue and we often brought it up on these exercises, but I never suffered any consequences, because it was objective and professional. I thank her as secretary-general because she has done her job objectively and professionally, and I wish her all the happiness in her future career, and I also wish the future secretary-general of the National Assembly all the happiness I have personally known, and I hope that she will do the job professionally and responsibly. And it does not serve you honor, from the ruling majority, that you treat your staff in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29329	Thank you, colleague Nogo for your discussion. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29330	On the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, the SRS parliamentary group will neither take part in the debate, nor in the vote on this point around the secretary-general. We will return to the assembly bench when discussions on the details of these laws, or proposals that we have already completed the debate. So we leave you alone to discuss your personal problems in peace. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29331	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29332	Thank you. It is indeed an unusual way to schedule, or add this point to today’s session. I am sorry that Maja Gojkovic did not show up today and did not deign at least enough to chair this assembly, she did not have the courage to face what she was doing. I want to thank Mrs Bulajic, on behalf of the DJB parliamentary group, for her correct co-operation so far. We know she's been through a lot of pressures and we can only imagine, since we've been through the experience of co-operation already with the people who represent this ruling majority, what it looks like when a man comes to a place where he wants to arrange something that's been messy so far. I will remind the public today, the scandalous session attended by Mrs Bulajic, led by the chairman Gojkovic, when the opposition's MPs were stolen four hours of time for debate and when she suffered more than dignity from all the insults that, unfortunately, all Serbian citizens could hear and see. It's really a big deal to stay dignified at that point. What Mrs. Bulajic is at this point, I say, putting back the writing of the media is far less than any other thing that could be placed by the majority representing the ruling majority today in Serbia, starting with the same Anti-Corruption Agency, which has forgotten the 24 apartments of former mayor, perhaps the future Mayor of Cynthia Mali, starting with the fact that this same ruling majority has named the head of the Anti-Corruption Agency as the direct donor of Alexander Vukic's presidential campaign, starting with the fact that in many other places there are people who have been donors to that money for which we don't even know today what kind of flows have even entered those legal flows of funding of the presidential campaign. In that sense, therefore, the miserable thing to put on the burden of Mrs Bulajic is certainly not a condemnation and is not something that is not correct if there was some possible circumstance in which she was wrong. So anyone who works today can make a mistake. Only one who doesn't do absolutely nothing can make a mistake. The DJB parliamentary group and our head of the parliamentary group were at one point the government's minister of the same ruling majority with smaller or larger changes and passed the goal when he wanted to edit the system. Today, Mrs. Bulajic puts only one burden on herself. She wanted this chaos, which was made in the meantime, not only by the final term of the ruling majority, but also by the mandate of many other ruling majority. She wanted that system fixed. I thank you again on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm sorry you're going to be relieved of your duties today, but at least you came here with dignity to sit in front of the parliamentary group that set you up, first of all, because of your qualifications to the place where you are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29333	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29334	Thank you. Part of the explanation for the resolution of the Secretary-General reads: “How the Secretary-General did not carry out the tasks laid down by law and by the Rules of Procedure in the previous period did not compromise the functioning and operation of the National Assembly's conditions for submitting a motion for resolution. It is necessary that this decision be taken by emergency procedure, in order to create conditions as soon as possible for the National Assembly to continue uninterruptedly to carry out tasks under its jurisdiction. “ My objection concerns, without prejudice to the Law on the National Assembly and the right of the National Assembly president to submit such a motion for resolution, the same as the right to choose, to an urgency that is unnecessary for all of us. It is again the choice of culture that is wanted for proceedings in this assembly. I would like to add my request to that observation to try to refrain from abuse or use of the media when it comes to our work. We never refrain from criticism, whoever's the subject of criticism, but from using the media to try, because the damage is common. People who should trust that we here are seriously involved in their lives, because that's what the Constitution and the law say, they prefer to read whether tabloids, less or less, texts about the National Assembly. If anything good can come out of the urgency of this resolution procedure, I'd like it to be our joint decision to use our political passions, folklore as far as we can think of and wherever, but to try to get the institution in which we've sworn here that we're going to leave some jobs out of every kind of tabloid reporting for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29335	We're moving on to the speaker list. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. You don't want to. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29336	Thank you. I have a big remark about the way this agenda point, back-to-back without any need, and so we don't have enough time to get ready for this session, and we want a lot of...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29337	I'm asking you to listen to me. There's no need to use words like that. You're always very polite in debates. We didn't figure anything out. Here you go. Go on. Don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29338	You didn't even blink when Ambassador Risticevic fed all the feces here the other day, with me now translating it into Latin, and you respect me for the word. It's what you did, it's what you did. I know the Rules of Procedure give you the right to do this, but there's no need, you didn't have to do this. You've counted on the opposition not being notified in time, not being able to sign up for a word, and I've wanted to say a lot since September of last year on this agenda point and on everything that this ruling majority has done to the secretary general. In September of the month, we had a session where the president of this Assembly, in direct transmission of RTS, insulted Svetislava Bulajić, quoting, said – get out, get out and bring me the information you need to bring me. In other words, she was not satisfied with the way the secretary general measured the time spent to discuss the amendments. The secretary general did it the way the Rules of Procedure had to do, as every civil servant should, and not as the ruling majority did, and that's why she was killed. The further development of the situation was, instead of the same president, Maja Gojkovic, sorry to the secretary-general, who, in front of the citizens in direct transmission, was only offended because she was doing her job properly, she vengefully reported to the Secretary-General of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which the SNS, meanwhile, completely ruined and completely brought under its political influence. On September 20th, we had an insult in the congregation. Following an emergency procedure, the Agency made a final decision on October 19th that Svetislava Bulajic was in conflict of interest and that something was, as a fairy tale, wrong. In September 2015, I applied to the same agency for conflict of interest against Aleksandar Sapic, and this is still pending, and this is being resolved in less than a month. Please, I say responsibly, Secretary Bulajić has been set up and set up. It is burdened with daily travel logs of 15 euros a day, four times a day. She didn't go on vacation, she went to congregation delegations, some work there, and she got killed -- why? The charter of the congregation tells that she, by procedure, cannot sign her official travel order, but must be done by her deputies, and they refused to do so. She's being burdened with paying herself overtime. She's been working overtime. She came into conflict with deputies because they don't come to work, and they don't come to work, because they have a double function and they work at RIK, so when they're called to work in the Assembly, they say, "Oh, I work in RIK." The account of the congregation, and what the charter of the congregation tells, often turns out to be true. In the end, I want to thank Svetislava Bulajić for being correct. I entered the Assembly here with prejudice that when the secretary general brings in the ruling coalition that it means he's their man. For these two years, there were situations where I saw Svetislava Bulajic trying to establish order in the National Assembly. As for the overtime of this Assembly, it has been somewhat successful since we worked until after midnight in 2016. Come to me, MPs, rather than the congregation employees have to keep an eye on this congregation all the time. This year we work as the Rules of Procedure, mostly by 6:00 p.m., which means that employees in the Assembly are also spared abnormally large amounts of overtime and have and remain time for their families. Another thing where Svetislava Bulajic tried to impose order, and she had obstruction at every turn, and she failed to do so. She was trying to do something about mass smoking in the offices as an authorized person to implement the Law on the Protection of Citizens against Tobacco Smoke. She couldn't have had a lot of success in that, because employees in the Assembly have the perfect argument, counterargument - well, please, so MPs smoke in clubs. How can Svetislava Bulajić ban MPs from smoking on clubs, even at a congregation restaurant? She can't do that. And with what authority does that require employees in the Assembly? Svetislava, thank you for trying. Thank you for not taking your resignation under pressure, but for waiting for your shift and so buying us a chance to say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29339	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic, or do you want a replica? Replica, please. Yes, yes, you mentioned it to me too, although I must say, I highly appreciate the work of my colleague Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps in grief and pain for the lost election of the lady doesn't know that she told me that I called the MPs feces. That's what she said and you could all hear it. It was the other way around. Zoran Zivkovic, and I don't look a bit like him, neither physically nor characterically, fortunately, has given us all two words – coprophagia, which means that we eat feces. I reacted to it and said it wasn't nice of him. I don't touch people, I don't spit ore, I don't curse fixed mothers. It all happened to me just from a group whose representative was speaking here. I have an understanding of the hard defeat of those who will probably leave without ever coming back. If the lady was seeing something in her birth cards and a glass ball, I forgive her, but Grisha to show up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29341	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29342	I'd just like to make a brief comment on the fact that the President of the Assembly isn't here today. Speaking of character, I think it reflects her character in the best way. I'm not surprised to you either, Chairman, that you admire the previous speaker. I agree that you're all of a similar character. I'm just going to go back to what you're doing here today -- you're showing a force that will, after all, turn around on you. The time will come for that, too. I'm glad to congratulate you on this election result that you've boasted about here, using the time to discuss other important things and to tell you that it's only a sign that Serbian citizens now know who's the only one responsible for the quality of their life in the future. As for Mrs Bulajic herself, I thank her for her co-operation so far. I have not dealt with how guilty she really is or is not, because the planting and the way the Serbian Progressive, Violent Party works and the violence of the Serbian Progressive Party, it is no wonder I made a mistake, is very well known to me, as well as to the citizens of Serbia. All the best and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29343	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Progressive Party's MP group will support Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's proposal that Mrs. Svetislava Bulajic be relieved of the post of Secretary General of the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to say that these who are asking why Maja Gojkovic is not in the hall, so that she does not remain unarranged and that the citizens of Serbia would know that Maja Gojkovic is travelling to Chile today as representative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, for the solemn inauguration of the newly elected President of the Republic of Chile. This will never happen to you in your life, because Serbian citizens do not want you to lead them. And if they didn't want you to run them, they also showed the results of the recent elections in the town of Belgrade. Personally, I think these praises to Mrs. Bulajic, who come from the Parliament group “There was enough” and the Parliament Group “The Dvori” seem more to me personally like a bear service, because when you were praised by people who played guitar in the National Assembly, held their hands in their pockets while the national anthem was intonated, the presidents of the National Assembly ripped off the microphone, put a stone in the hall of the National Assembly, swearing, spit, insulted, and I don’t think it is very useful for you. But I don't want to get into that. The fact is, there are a number of problems in the functioning of the assembly administration. The secretary general is an elder of the congregation administration. There are numerous examples of violations of legal and sublegal regulations, for which, in our opinion, Mrs Svetislava Bulajic is responsible. I'm not saying she did it with any particular intent. I don't think she had a desire to get rich in person, but the fact is that the administrative inspection found a number of illegalities in the manner in which the administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia functioned, and for that, according to the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is the only responsibility of the Secretary-General. Unlike you infallible, infallible, who have never done anything wrong in your life, which is the only thing you know is to teach others lessons, to look at others and to throw away, but to do nothing good for the citizens of Serbia, we from the Serbian Progressive Party have shown many times so far that we have the courage and courage to change and ministers who in our opinion do not do well or do not do their job well enough, and we do so today. I want to thank Mrs Bulajic for everything she has done well for the National Assembly, but also to say that the Serbian Progressive Party, as the strongest parliamentary group in the National Assembly who has proposed it in fact, is not satisfied with its work and we expect that someone who will do a much better, much better, much more secure, more sacrificed, more professional work will come to the post of Mrs Svetislava Bulajić. I do not dispute that Mrs Bulajic has little theoretical knowledge. But in order to be a good manager, in addition to theoretical knowledge, you have to have sensitivity for people. Unfortunately, there were no sensitivity in many situations. In many congregation departments, sections, groups, and other organisational units, there are many problems. Human relations have been disrupted. One number of people stopped working, and it wasn't extended, for my completely unknown reasons. It's extended to some. So, there's a lot of problems. The only way to solve these problems is to put an end to this story, to support Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's proposal and to select someone who will do better than Mrs. Bulajic did in the next period. Mrs. Bulajic, I want a lot of happiness and success in some new job, that is, some new job.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29345	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29346	Thank you, Vice President. As far as the shift itself is concerned, as I can tell you, you proposed to Svetislav Bulajić as Secretary General of the Assembly, we did not vote for it, you will take her down. I believe that you have convinced from order that it is responsible for the congregation administration, which is probably the only one in the Assembly not working well, and it is indeed among you, as one of your colleagues said you should resolve your own staff issues on your own. But something else is important here. I'm looking at it, while your colleagues here from the opposition have been talking and making fun of their colleagues from the opposition from the SNS and how some of your colleagues are enjoying yourselves, how sweet you laugh, you should prepare yourself to see what happens to you one day. So he's going to drag you through the tabloids one day, so he's going to set up your affairs once, so he's going to abuse the institutions against you, and then he's going to take you to one of the subsidized sessions, within the set-up of the agenda, without a word of reason, he's going to change you. Now, dear colleagues of the SNS, what you're doing to others, be prepared to do to you the moment someone no longer needs you, because that's the way you treat people. That's what every one of you should be prepared for. I don't know, if the problems were such that it couldn't be predicted that this item of the agenda would be put on the agenda today, some colleagues say clever, and some of them planted, it's really a very unusual way to discuss this today. I'm interested in when these problems in the functioning of the assembly administration started? When we learned that the assembly administration did not work that this had to be put on the agenda today, and on the very day when the proposer of the agenda, our president, who I suppose is right, should explain to the MPs who voted for this same Svetislav Bulajić, is not there. Today when she has very urgent state obligations, we have to discuss it. I don't know when you found out that Svetislava Bulajić didn't do her job, did you know that on Tuesday, when we were establishing the agenda points, did you know that in November, did you know that in December when the Assembly stopped working, or was it something that we learned today, 15 minutes ago, or 20 minutes ago, or when we put this point on the agenda, right on the day that the one proposing this item of the agenda was not able to be here to discuss it with us. I would like the president of the National Assembly to be this up-to-date and when it comes to other resolutions, whose proposals are set out in the congregation procedure. I think all citizens remember how she deceived the public, when she said more than a year ago, that she would personally take care of herself, personally, vote for it, and personally speak to the MPs, that the motion for her resolution, which we have submitted, is on the agenda. Obviously, it's not that up-to-date when it comes to proposals for other resolutions, and I wish you were all so up-to-date together when it comes to decisions and opinions and solutions of the Anti-Corruption Agency. No, it's taken selectively. Well, whoever suits us to be replaced, well, that's where we're going to listen to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Whoever doesn't suit us, here or we won't, since we've put party people everywhere and we won't give an opinion or when the Agency makes a recommendation for someone's resolution, and that's where we're going to ignore the Agency's opinion. I would like the President to answer when we learned that the Assembly is working against the law, that it is not working, that I don't know what they are giving as reasons for this resolution, the citizens found out that something in this relationship doesn't work on the day when the president in one inappropriate, uncultural, rude way insulted the secretary general in the transfer, because the secretary general didn't well prepare the fraud that the president carried out here, with time to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29347	Please just pay attention to the terminology. The fraud, the deception, the president's not here first. You'll get a chance to debate. It really doesn't make sense, I didn't expect you to say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29348	I agree. I'll rephrase. Serbian citizens have learned that the problem in the work of the secretary-general exists the day the president informed us that the parliamentary groups no longer have time to discuss the amendments, although the e-parliament at that time showed that more than 500 seconds remain for the debate on amendments. How much nicer it is to say it, except like this. So that was months ago. Since then, this one game has been going on in this House. I wish the administration were the only part of Parliament that didn't work, I'd like you to be aware that many other things are equally important in this House, if not more important, and I'd like you to be concerned about the fact that we're coming up with draft laws that we don't even come to talk about. I'd like to worry that you and this session have submitted so many amendments to the first members of the first law, that they won't be able to discuss it again. I'd like to worry you that we haven't discussed the amendments to the budget. I would like to worry that the government of the Republic of Serbia is humiliating us, ignoring us, not coming to parliament, not answering questions, that we have no control over the work of the government. I would like to worry that we were suspended from the work of parliament both before the Belgrade elections and before the presidential elections. I'd also like to worry about you that last year we've only worked two months out of all your party parties, within party, inter-party calculations, shootings, games, calculations, judgments, and I don't know what. I would like to worry that you who are responsible for this problem in Parliament do not see within yourself and do not see who is in charge of this parliament. So now vote your colleagues as you wish, do whatever you want, but please, that what you say here is a standard, you apply it in every situation, first of all, when it comes to yourself and your party and never forget that everything you've done now can happen to you tomorrow and no one will say a word to defend you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29349	Thank you. Mr Dragan Vesovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm not a magistrate, I might be. So, I am not going to praise or besmirch Mrs Bulajic, for the simple reason that my contacts with her in the Republika Srpska Assembly have always been correct and personal as a person who likes to be good to all people, the only thing I can wish her is happiness in future life and future work tasks that she will perform. It doesn't bother me here that the ruling majority had the will that was at one point so that you would be chosen, today she had the will to no longer be in your place. I don't mind, I say, the will of the ruling majority, because she's most, I mind the way it's done. I was just thinking whether or not to speak, and then an esteemed colleague of mine, with his exposure, made me want to say which, too. I was looking for the right word in that thought then, it seems to me, a lot, a lot, a lot, that's all, not to say anything else. You have the majority, you have the force, it's all right, but some things just don't need to, I'm telling you friendly, you know that my relationships with you are very correct, you shouldn't be doing it this way. The MP, an unrelated MP of the opposition or of the position, who has been delegated by some part of the population and citizens of the Serbian state, should not learn anything from the newspaper, not from the tide. Because what's happening before now has come out in the public voices of the Republic of Serbia, written, printed, e-printed, that's what I meant, as we know here. Someone's gonna think that's true, but we still know that we already knew yesterday that this was going to be today. Now we're getting information, it's another matter of procedural interference for me, and here we've filed a request on March 9th, on today, and it's one of the few requests for which we don't have at what time it's filed. Look at everything, we always have a captain. You were doing something fast. You say a number of violations, I've heard from the towers, a number of irregularities. It's just not clear to me if you found out this morning or if you knew yesterday, or if you knew a month ago, or if you wanted to dissuade and then explain, absolutely according to the Rules of Procedure, which is valid, I say - I try to always respect it, it says that it's possible, when we have most. We know very well how most of us showed up and we know until half an hour ago and until an hour ago, we who sit on this side this morning, but when I say no to this side, I don't see the bar between me and you, I think we're all facing the state of Serbia and that it should be in our first place, we know how many of us there are and now suddenly we have most of us. It seemed to me that it could have been very nice and easy, out of respect and respect for the lady who did the job, and I also know that what my colleague Martinović mentioned, I apologize for mentioning the name, if he felt that he had reason to replicate it he would use, and my name got lost, and I know about those relationships and those stories he talked about too. But we could have put it in the agenda, normally put it in the agenda, that it was going its course, and that it was all normal, out of respect for the lady who was doing it, in a way I don't doubt again, had no will, had no sin, didn't sin. Don't and don't, because you really have most of the enormous to demonstrate sometimes unnecessary force. Then those who don't think like you, and you'll let the right of a man to think the way he thinks is useful and meaningful, get the unnecessary or necessary impression that something is done somewhere else, which is not unfortunately this place, and this place should be a place that represents the supreme legislative authority and decisions that come out of here, from those who are both in position and in opposition, should be decisions that benefit the people. This has bothered me, and your will, you will vote as you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29351	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. I apologize for the mistake I made earlier. Tatiana Macura has a word now. You don't want to. The word is from a colleague named Vladimir Đuric. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29352	Thank you. The issue of a resolution, i.e. the vote of mistrust or the replacement of the Secretary-General of the Assembly, is, as I would say, an intra-municipal issue and citizens do not expect us to be overly burdensome with our internal issues. They expect results from the Assembly, which are laws, appointments of the best candidates for the functions to which the National Assembly appoints and elects and laws that will improve their lives. However, when the ruling majority put this intra-community issue on the agenda, it is not a burning opportunity to take advantage of the rare opportunity to talk about events in the Assembly, because it would not be bad to say a few words and about anomalies that prevent us all from meeting the expectations of the citizens they have, when it comes to the work of this home, and these anomalies are many. I'll just mention some now. For example, the way we call the sittings, and that way that the small-time smics are trying to prevent the opposition from submitting supplements to the agenda, so when the opposition finds out that it did, then the session is moved to another term that the opposition is not able to hand over the agenda or power to debate and things like that. Then, the way the time is measured for discussion. Already some colleagues here mentioned that we had a session in which the e-parliament system was written on the screen, we all saw it, I know that you saw it on the other side of this room, because I know you can use the computer, I don't underestimate you, on the contrary, it said on the screen that for the amendment debate there were 257 minutes left...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29353	Mr. Djuric, do you know what the subject of the agenda is?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29354	Yes, of course, I also hold that the secretary in all of this is somehow involved. Here, we'll get to it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29355	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29356	Because I personally talked to the secretary about this in the eyes behind this counter, so I want to see if it's worth the burden or not. So, on the e-parliament screen, it said that there was 257 minutes left when the chairman said that time had been spent, and then around that time there was a conflict between Mrs Gojkovic and Mrs Bulajic, who was seen in direct transmission, when it was said, coming out and bringing me the data. Then Mrs. Bulajic, of course, had to go outside and bring the information that Mrs. President of the Assembly wanted her to have. Were those the exact data? We saw on the e-parliament screen that they didn't. Then we had a system that the time of change was measured in really spent seconds. If anyone speaks for 30 seconds, they take off the system for 30 seconds. Then a two-minute rounding was introduced at the previous session, contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Are these all the things they have to put on the burden of the Secretary General of the Assembly? Who could have reprogramed the e-parliament system so MPs in this house would be deprived of the time to discuss amendments? Finally, we now have time to discuss amendments when the government is submitting hundreds of amendments to its own laws, probably because it doesn't feel right. So then we'll get a chance to talk in this house about only the first few members of the first law on the agenda and that's it. Is that going to make the citizens better? I'm sure he won't. Is this all the fault of Mrs Bulajic, who here today, in the spirit of real communist differentiation of personnel, is you replacing her, with a hypocritical desire to have a lot of luck on her next engagement and hypocritical gratitude? I tell you, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29357	I ask you not to insult us, colleague Gjuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29358	I apologize if I have offended, it was not my intention, but I am deeply convinced that there is no real honesty when Mrs Bulajic thanks for her work so far. So all this has nothing to do with Mrs Bulajic, it all has to do with the way this Assembly is led by those who chair it, because all of this is in the jurisdiction of them, not Mrs Bulajic. So, with this shift nothing will be fixed in this home, only the ruling majority will get another job where they will be able to place someone. Finally, when it comes to the courage of the ruling majority to replace ministers who are not doing well and to do so without a pardon, that courage is told by the fact that the proposer of this agenda and these shifts did not come. Yes, it is on an important state trip, but the ease with which we put this on the agenda leads me to conclude that with equal ease this could have been put on the agenda any time, at any time, when Mrs. Proposer can attend this. Because this same lady who suggested this agenda point courageously a year ago said she would be happy to put on the agenda a debate on her trust, so she hasn't done it yet until today, despite a request still standing in the assembly procedure and which she hasn't lost since the almost ex-secretary of the procedure. Don't take too much pride in that courage. As counterpart Jerkov said, if you force such a way of dealing with people, if you are willing to use "Blic" which, in its title, already former Mrs. Bulai calls the secretary a bahato and a media lynching, then be ready tomorrow to be the victims of the same old classical communist differentiation when you run out of deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29359	Thank you. Dr. Aleksandra Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29360	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all Serbian citizens know how much "Blic" favors the SNS and how much it writes on SNS officials' orders. As for the tabloids spoken of by the lady from the rebranded or unbranded DS, they're masters in pulling people on tabloids. According to the tabloids, Alexander Vukic and Siniša Malo, were also dragged through the campaign, and Irena Vujovic was dragged by Maja Gojkovic, I was countless times the subject of the tabloids. Here is the subject of the tabloid Marijan Rističević. The man committed a terrible crime, competed with the Regional Ministry of Agriculture for the acquisition of funds for the purchase of a new tractor, applied for the lease of agricultural land, and he is the biggest criminal in Serbia. They're your tabloids. All these stories in Alexander Vukic, about some listening centres, about the string with the question of God, who located Ratko Mladic? It's all the text from the tabloids. The list is called "Tabloid", source Milovan Brkic. So don't lecture us about how people get through that tabloid mud. You do it every day. In the Republic of Serbia today you have, I don't know, one or two most, electronic texts that are favored by the policy represented by Aleksandar Vukic, all the other media are yours. Don't tell me that Vučić's "Today" is N1 Vučićev, that "Time" is Vučićevo, that NIN Vučićev, that "Express" is Vučićev. It's all yours, it's all yours. But not all that your media has helped you to go to the elections for the Belgrade City Assembly, because you have no other policy than hate for the SNS, according to Alexander Vukic. One more thing to tell you, Mrs Bulajic, with all due respect, was not elected to the general secretary's competition, but was chosen by a political decision. So we're on the field of politics, not on the field of profession and science. As the President of the Republic is not elected in the competition, as the Prime Minister and ministers do not choose to compete, as MPs do not choose to compete, so the Secretary-General did not choose to compete, but was chosen by the assembly majority who has the full right and to relieve him of the post. The DS lady was telling us about how we're in some kind of interparty bickering, just a man not to believe it. A party that wants to reregister to avoid paying its debts, a party that wants to change its name and logo to avoid paying its debts, a party that doesn't know who the president is, who's the vice president, who's the president of the city board, who's responsible for what, tells us SNS something about inter-party bickering. People, you have to understand one thing, elections are made by hard work and hard work. You must have a well-organized political party behind you. You don't have it, and that's why you're going to lose the election year after year. The elections are not won on Facebook, elections are not won on Twitter, elections are not won on the viber, elections are won by having a strong party from the local board to the party's presidency, you have a strong and capable leader to whom the people trust. You don't have any of that. Here we've been honored, look at these benches full of SPS to us from the SNS. And he says we know how many this morning, and you see how many of you are now. Mr. Vesovic, to remind you of the famous words of Nikola Pasic – for the people of democracy, for members of the party of discipline. Here are the members of the political parties who went out to the elections and whom the people have shown confidence, and unlike you hypocrites who have registered as any association of citizens, as NGOs and as such have entered parliament, and now you do not succumb to control by the Anti-Corruption Agency. We went out as political parties, got the trust of the people, and we have an obligation to represent our political parties to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We of the SNS are proud to represent Alexander Vukic's policy and SNS policy here. They asked some of you what would bring us the policy we're taking. Well, she's already brought it, she's brought international reputation to Serbia, she's brought in that we've preserved sovereignty of independence and territorial integrity, to respect both Washington and Brussels and Moscow. We've brought this, much more investment, much more new jobs. We have a much higher level of security for our citizens. We achieve success not in all fields, not quickly enough, but we achieve them. It's not easy to get Serbia out of the mud that you've all brought together. That's what today's session shows. Whenever you need to attack the SNS, you're all together. He was right, Alexander Vucic, there's always one thread that will bring you together, and that's hate for SNS and for Alexander Vukic. Do not defend Svetislava Bulajić today, you do not care about Svetislava Bulajić. When she was so quality and good, so professional and successful, that you didn't vote for her in 2016. No, you're trying to attack a SNS today, which has the courage to say -- we're not happy with the work of the secretary general, we thank her for everything she's done, but we're looking for a better candidate. Unlike you, who are stuck in time and space and who think you are infallible and untouchable, we think that you can always do better, that you can always move forward, that you can always go harder, faster. That's why we do it better, Mrs. Stamenkovic. Anyway, where's your president, that's what I'm interested in. Where is President Sasa Radulovic, to say a word. A very smart, very honest man, running bankruptcy at 17 companies at the same time, closing deals with himself, getting rich at the expense of this troubled people. Well, where this president of yours, the one who announced the epochal changes, he's going to take over Alexander Vukic, give lectures about Vukic's brother, about Mom, Dad, and so on. Where's your president? Where's the president who brought the stone into the National Assembly? I'm very surprised, in fact, and I'm not surprised, to be honest with you, the terminology you're using today, as soon as you don't know who Slobodan Jovanovic is, Uros Predic, who is Nadezhda Petrovic, then they're normal terms – you've done something wrong. Zoran Zivkovic tells me yesterday – chibe. It's all, you know, democratic, it's civil, it's European, fancy, great, it's all in line with European standards, I'm telling you it's not. If you want more success in the next election you'll have to change a bit, ladies and gentlemen. The subject of the amendment. I see this "Blic" of yours, he's very interested in why the SNS submits amendments to the bill. You've talked about the amendments, I've listened carefully to everything you've said and let me perform a little observation on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, regarding those amendments. I see this "Blic" of yours has been announced about how SNS MPs have the courage and the right to submit amendments. The amendments have two purposes and two goals. The first objective is to supplement or correct the text of the bill. The second goal that we want to achieve is to promote the policy that we advocate, and we do so through the amendments, and no one to you, ladies and gentlemen from these sad remnants of the Serbian opposition, is to prevent you from talking about your amendments, but you will speak within the time given to you by the Rules of Procedure, which you yourself have brought. In the years when you felt that no one would ever relieve you of power and that Boris Tadic would for life be the president of the Republic, that the long-term yellow company would rule Serbia and that the long-term yellow enterprise would be the master of life and death in Serbia. Well, then the situation turned, so the Rules of Procedure, which, in 2009, 2010, 2011 and in the first half of 2012, was ideal, was democratic, you got positive opinions from European relevant bodies, now suddenly you're not good. You will have time to discuss, but within the time period given to you by the Rules of Procedure. And just to tell you something else, there will never be a situation again that you who have won one, two, three, and a half percent in the election tell us for days what is wrong with the bill and that all these people sitting here and representing the overwhelming majority of Serbian citizens are silent. No, from now on, most of them will talk, you talk, and the citizens of Serbia will measure who's right. But don't expect, don't expect us to keep quiet for days as Balsa Bozovic speaks, as Sasa Radulovic speaks, as Bosko Obradovic speaks, and similar to them. No, I don't. No more silence, now all SNS MPs, all MPs of the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasant Party and the United Peasants' Party of Serbia will speak and every day we will point to the good things that the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have done for Serbia and for the Serbian people, and we, too, are the people's MPs representing the great, huge majority of Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29361	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. Take it easy. Who volunteered to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Srjan Nogo, go ahead. Were you in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29362	Watch out, do you see me?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29363	You want to pinch me so you can see I'm present?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29364	Article 106, 107, the speaker can speak about the agenda point and comes to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The previous speaker spoke at least of the agenda point, and most of all of the country's political opportunity assessment, and also in his speech, in an offensive manner, he pleaded to the opposition. If you are so big and brilliant, there is no need to speak in terms of how Mr Martinovic used it, when he spoke of colleagues from the opposite side representing opposition MPs. So two provisions of this Rules of Procedure have been violated. I'm just saying, I'm not advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm suggesting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I forgot that, 'cause they wouldn't let me have my colleagues across the street to correct your terminology. So Article 106, 107, really doesn't need to qualify as the opposition MPs. What you said to Mr. Martinovic in your presentation is a big scandal and you well know that parliamentary democracy doesn't work that way, since you're a college professor, but of course you can do whatever you want, but you can't go as far as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29365	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Branka Stamenkovic: He mentioned me. You don't have the right to a replica, he didn't mention you. He mentioned parties that didn't cross the census. I don't think anyone sitting here has crossed the census, I don't understand how now. Take it easy. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. (Branka Stamenkovic: I answered the word. ) (Branka Stamenković: Shame on you. ) I ask you to respect procedure and Rules of Procedure, sign in, don't shout out. Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, my colleague in the afternoon debate had to be a "panter" to report for the word, because the speed measured in a million seconds, because the MPs were condemned, especially from the opposition's ranks to appear for the word, and now because of the noise produced by the ruling majority, you neither see, nor hear the people standing before you and who suggest that they have the right to speak. So, I would now like to recapture this shameful debate that has been brought to today's session as an additional point on the agenda... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29367	I won't let you talk like that, that's how you talk about the National Assembly. We've had a very correct argument all day today, and I'm not gonna let you act like one. Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29368	To recap this debate, I will commend the efficiency of another Anti-Corruption Agency, as my colleague Branka has already said. So in less than a month's time, she's come up with a solution that requires that we resolve today's duties or a day's work on the agenda, to resolve the duties of the secretary general at his place. What the Anti-Corruption Agency has not done today, for example, is that it did not order the mysterious disappearance of one of the ministers in the current government to be investigated. Don't interrupt me and turn off my microphone. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-09-0.u29369	Of course I'm going to interrupt you, don't abuse you, and I beg you, I'm very correct and I listen here all the time from the opposition's representative how people cheat here, how they lie, how they're frauds, and that doesn't make any sense anymore. I let you talk and I beg you to finish. I've completed the search. You called late. So the search is closed. (Tatyana Macura: Give me a word to finish.) You're inaccessible, give me back your word. ) Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on points 33 to 35 of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may decide that the day for voting on a bill should be immediately after the examination of the bill has been completed. In accordance with this provision, I hereby set Friday 9 March 2018, starting at 16.08 p.m., as the day for voting on agenda points from 33rd to 35th of this session that the debate was concluded. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for elections and resolutions, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. Point 33 – Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the SNS parliamentary group, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, abstention – one, total - 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Point 34 – Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the SNS parliamentary group, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, abstention – one, total - 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Point 35 – Proposal for a discharge of the General Secretary of the National Assembly of Svetislava Bulajic. I am putting the motion to dismiss Secretary General of the National Assembly Svetislava Vulajic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, v – one, did not vote – two, a total – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has resolved Svetislav Bulajic's role as Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, thank you. I'd like to inform you that we will continue our work Monday at 10:00 p.m.
