ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 15th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 146 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Ana Brnabic, all members of the government, as well as a candidate for a member of the government, Mr Sinisa Mali. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure and extremely, for Monday, other than those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposal and elect a finance minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have seen, for the 15th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, on the basis of Article 121(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have established the next D's n'e d'e d'Ivoire and swear an oath by a member of the Government. We're going to work on the agenda. You have received a proposal from a candidate for a member of the Government, which is in accordance with Article 133(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 25(2). The government law was submitted by Prime Minister Mrs Ana Brnabic, who was proposed by Sinisa Mali as finance minister. In this way, and according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, conditions have been established to open a search for a candidate for a member of the Government, to elect a member of the Government and to take an oath before the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 269. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening an investigation into the motion for a member of the government. I'm asking the motionary, Prime Minister, Anna Brnabic, does she want to explain the proposal? Anna Brnabic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37327	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the People, it is my pleasure to have the opportunity today to propose for the post of Minister of Finance Mr Sinisha Mali. Since I expect that during the day we will have a general debate, which will include various things, I would focus mainly on those things that he, above all, and recommend for the Minister of Finance. I'll leave for later debate, I believe, on unquestionable knowledge, professional qualifications and the experience of Sinisha Mali. It seems to me, what was important to me, that Sinisha recommended first and foremost the success in solving Belgrade City's huge financial and development problems, which he inherited when he took over as mayor in 2014. In 2014, the situation in Belgrade was next. Sinisa Mali as mayor took over a city that had 1.118.000,000 euros in debt, 14 billion dinars of unpaid liabilities and a record budget deficit of 20.25%. What's the situation in Belgrade today? The debt of Belgrade has been halved. All Belgrade City obligations have been paid. Belgrade's deficit has been reduced four times. Belgrade received its first credit rating in its history in October 2016 from the international rating agency Mudiz and then Belgrade's credit rating was B-1 with a positive outlook. In March 2017, Belgrade's credit rating was upgraded to BA-3 and we expect Belgrade's credit rating to improve further by the end of the year. I will remind you that this is the first time in history that the City of Belgrade has received a credit rating, which is extremely important for attracting foreign investment and predictability of domestic investors' business. What Sinisha Malia recommends primarily for the post of finance minister is that Belgrade today is a stable local self-government and far the largest investment destination in this part of Europe. During Sinisha Mali's term as mayor, consolidation of public and public-communal enterprises was also carried out. In the first three years of a minus two billion dinar mandate, public and public-communal enterprises in the city have come to net profits of 10 billion dinars. "Belgrade Road", for example, is instead of a loss of over a billion dinars from 2013, today a profitable company making profits of 507 million dinars. This, of course, made the basis for investment, so "Belgrade Road" after ten years had the first serious purchase of the truck. "Green Belgrade" also received new machinery, "City Cleanness" new trucks. "Belgrade water and sewerage" invest in new kilometers of water and sewerage networks. Since the situation in the city's finances, which was, we will all agree on a very challenging and difficult task, has finally been launched in Belgrade by a serious, real investment cycle. Access to investors has changed, so construction permits in Belgrade City are being issued in just 12 days. The process, as in all Serbia, is entirely electronic to prevent any corruption. In the last four years, construction permits have been issued for more than two million square meters. For a period of six years, the previous city government issued construction permits for exactly double less square meters. During 2017 alone, a licence was issued for more than a million squares. As Prime Minister, I can personally testify that, thanks to the large investment projects of the City of Belgrade, especially housing, the GDP of the Republic of Serbia, the construction industry has been really, honestly and significantly improved. The international co-operation of the City of Belgrade, which I think is almost completely dead during the term of office of Dragan Gilas, has been restarted and I think it's something we're going to have to agree on. The initiative of Sinisha Mali and then Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic in 2015 launched an investment forum "Belgrade Investment Days", which has been held each year as a single platform for economic co-operation, investor attraction and Belgrade's promotion. Today investment days become one of the main regional initiatives that brings together the economy from around the world in Belgrade, international financial institutions, sides and largest domestic investors. Belgrade also hosted the summit of the capital cities of Central and Southeast Europe in 2015, presenting the investment potentials of Belgrade and Serbia and the possibilities for regional co-operation. At the time of Sinisha Mali's term, major investment projects were launched, of which "Belgrade on Water" is certainly the most significant. During his term, among other things, the Ikea store opened, a job that could not be completed for more than 15 years, primarily because Ikea does not come to local self-government or to a country where corruption exists. Sweden's "Ikea" in Belgrade and Serbia shows that Serbia is successfully fighting corruption and has a transparent business. The Hilton Hotel is also open. After more than 10 years, Belgrade also won the first factory in Obrenovac "Meita". All that has been done in the last four years has contributed to a reduction in unemployment in Belgrade, which is now at a historic minimum. During Sinisha Malagi's term, the number of unemployed in Belgrade was reduced by about 25,500 people, from 109,652 unemployed in April 2014, to 84.139 unemployed in April 2018. Thanks to the responsible management of the city's register, Belgrade itself has entered a major investment cycle to improve the quality of life of all its inhabitants. I will now explain several projects for the citizens of Serbia which I think are particularly important. A complete reconstruction of Slavi Square and large traffic facilities such as the Bulevar Liberation, Roosevelt and Str. My name is Kovacevic. The Belgrade Centre railway station, i.e. Prokop, started working after 40 years. Access stations were also built at the station. Pupin's bridge on the Danube is open. A new Boulevard was built from Mosta to Adi to Toshi's well, the construction of the "Makis 2" water factory was completed. Works began to turn the city center into a pedestrian zone. Obilić's wreath was completely reconstructed and closed for traffic, and Kosančić's wreath and street were reconstructed. Vuk Karadzic. More than 200 facades in the city center have been restored. Hundreds of miles of asphalt roads were built, as well as water and sewerage networks. More than 200 green areas were totalized. 36 outdoor gyms, 42 sports courts, more than 70 playgrounds were built. The complete reconstruction of Ustasta Park began and the construction of a walking pasaraella between Calemegdan and Beton Hall. The construction of a new bus stop in Block 42 in New Belgrade began. Preparation phases are under way to build a subway, whose construction is expected in the second half of 2020. Contracts have been signed for the construction of a waste processing plant in Vinca, a wastewater processing plant in Velika Sela and for the construction of the Brerenovac thermal power plant - Novi Belgrade. During the mandate of Sinisha Mali, a science and technology park in Zveztar was opened and revived, where now 560 young engineers are working at 64 start-up innovation companies, which had a 14m-euro profit in just a year. The city administration was reformed and modernised by the introduction of an electronic administration. The catalogue of electronic administrations in the city of Belgrade currently contains over 150 services, allowing citizens to submit requests, reports of inspections, a process for issuing building permits, applications for babies, enrolment in preschool institutions, etc. Over 40 health institutions have been reconstructed and modernised. New health facilities have been opened in Mali Mokro Lug, in Labud's hill, in Stepa Stepanović and in Jajinci. Equal investment was made in the city centre and in the suburban settlements, and additional efforts were made to better connect the suburban municipalities with the centre. This introduced 10 new bus lines connecting further parts of the city to the centre. In addition, Belgrade received 107 new buses, including the first electric buses. In 2017, Belgrade had more than a million tourists, representing a 20% growth compared to 2016. Four years ago, Belgrade had 67 hotels, today there are 104. Personal escort services today use 330 children and young people with developmental disorders for free. City pays and personal assistance services for 52 people with disabilities. After two decades, the children's shelter from the street will move to a new and much better space on Starry. Two particularly important things that may be most transferred during the election campaign, which perhaps we haven't explained clearly enough, which are important for the citizens of Serbia, and especially for the citizens of Belgrade, thanks to co-operation with private kindergartens, today more than 72 thousand children go to kindergarten in Belgrade, of which 58,500 children in state and 14 thousand in private kindergartens. In 2013, there were 47,500 children in kindergarten in Belgrade. It is more than 14,000 new places for kindergarten children, which is more than twice as many as 6,000 how the former city administration succeeded in six years with the same money investment. During the term of office of Dragan Gilas, parents in Belgrade paid 9,700 dinars a monthly bill for the state kindergarten. Today it is 5.590 dinars per month. In the city of Belgrade, thanks to fiscal consolidation, financial discipline, good governance of Belgrade's cash register, families have been provided with one-time cash aid of 10,000 dinars for each newborn child, while socially threatened families receive an additional 25,000 dinars. This kind of help is now receiving 14,000 of these mothers. It used to be 3,500. Belgrade is also the only city in Serbia today, which has made efforts as part of the E-baby2 electronic service along with a parental supplement, parents can apply immediately to the maternity home for all local donations. Today, we have 12.8 billion dinars in the account of the city of Belgrade. I also want to point out that I don't owe any further, that this is just one part of the success that Sinisa Mali as mayor has managed to end up in Belgrade in the previous four years. At the start of his mandate, Sinisa Mali pledged to implement fiscal consolidation and introduce fiscal discipline by handling Belgrade and delivered it. He promised Belgrade would be a town of cranes, and he fulfilled it. Sinisa Mali has shown that the team player, not to be afraid of hard work, not to be afraid of criticism, not to give up on imaginary affairs and not to be afraid of difficult decisions in the interests of Belgraders and in the interest of all Serbian citizens. His successes, his knowledge and these qualities that I have listed are why I believe Sinisha Mali is the best candidate for the finance minister in this Serbian government and therefore I ask the honourable Members of Parliament to give me support in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37328	Dear ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before we move on to the debate, to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf of the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Ghana, the Excellency of Aaron Michael Okvaj, who is meeting with his delegation for an official visit to the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to a debate. The first reported is Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37329	Madam President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM will support the election of Cynthia Malo for Finance Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll do it for two reasons. The first reason is that SVM is part of the ruling coalition. We have a coalition agreement with the SNS. The coalition is functioning, the outlined priorities of the coalition are being realised, under the coalition agreement. Here, it is now 11 months after Ana Brnabic heads the government and we can conclude on the basis of the past period that what has been agreed on, it is also realized and the logical consequence of this is that we support the proposal she made before the National Assembly. In countries with the parliamentary form of state government, the assembly chooses the government, and it is not bad to remember because in public speech, you have more and more grades, and even some ministers say, that ministers are appointed, appointed, etc. So, members of the government and government are elected by parliament, and this is always an opportunity to remind ourselves of everything that has been done and to potentially point to some goals that have not yet been fully realized. I said the first reason why we will vote for Mr. Mali's election is that we are part of the coalition and that this coalition is being realized, and the second reason we consider it, based on everything that has been stated and on everything we have seen from the current activities of the candidate for finance minister, is that there is a great chance and a likelihood that he is a successful finance minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We live in the AP Vojvodina area, so we are not in daily contact with Belgrade in a way such as the citizens of Belgrade. But from what we've experienced, what we've seen, and what we've heard, we're sure that in the past four years the city has still been led in the right way by the mayor and that it certainly qualified him to be the minister of finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'd have some advice, such a well-intentioned nature, for the future finance minister. Don't think it's a joke. I know you run half-marathon. Now that you're going to be doing a little bit more serious things, I recommend you start training for the marathon, because you're going to need more patience, you're going to need more endurance. So, it's such a well-intentioned advice from me, and you'll see that it will benefit you in your role as finance minister. As far as the objectives of our coalition agreement are concerned, I would like to remind the public that several of our extremely important projects are being financed and that I am saying this because Mr. Mali will also be in a situation where he will be in a position to approve of the spending of funds in the future. Of course, the budget is also brought by the National Assembly, and in that sense the budget determines what will be financed. But as far as these administrative matters aren't small, there's the Secretary of Finance's main word. I'd like to ask you to do everything you can to get some projects done after a few years, even a decade, done. These projects were not funded until 2014, and have been funded since 2014 and there is a chance of ending in several years. The first project is the construction and reconstruction of the National Theatre building in Subotica. This is not one city project, this is a regional project and since 2014, the Serbian government has provided threem euros for the project during the government of Mr. Vukic and during the government of Ana Brnabic. Another such project, of the same regional importance, is the bypass around Subotica, so-called. It's an Ipsylon leg. More than nine million dinars have been provided to finance the project since 2016. The project has been built for more than 30 years, now almost 40 years and has been done more in these two years than in the previous twenty-something years. So, I ask you to maintain this pace in the future and finally complete this project, which is not only important for the citizens of Subotica, but is very important for the economy not only of Subotica, not only of the north of Vojvodina and Serbia, but of the entire Republic of Serbia. Also, since 2014, also during the government of Mr. Vukic and during the government of Ana Brnabic, some of the Vojvodina local self-governments have received significant funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and has changed the paradigm in the sense that we have listened by 2014 – if you have a project, you have a Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, so you manage. It was somehow suggested that Vojvodina was not part of Serbia. This was suggested by the governments at the time, so until 2014, even by 2012 Mr Dacic's government had already been a positive step in this regard. But by 2012, Vojvodina's projects were financed exclusively from the province's funds. In the past few years, significant funds from republican sources have been received by Sent, Kanjiz, Bačka Topola and Subotica. In addition to these regional projects that have been discussed, I ask you to continue to do so in the future, especially as the budget situation improves and I think there are opportunities, there is room to finance projects. I wish you a lot of success. In the end, I would like to point out three more goals or to talk about three priorities that are not just our priorities from the SVM, but also priorities and governments, but should be working a little faster on their achievement. I'm saying the government's priorities are because they're part of the coalition agreement we were talking about. The first priority concerns finally solving the problem of agricultural producers. There's a solution for years, decades, that's simply unsustainable from both the economic aspect and the aspect of justice, and this solution that's in force simply doesn't match human logic either. So, in the current state, every agricultural producer that has registered ownership pays the same amount of contribution to the Republic of Serbia's budget, regardless of whether it processes half a hectare or 120 hectares or 10,000 hectares. It simply doesn't make sense because it's not the same for employees to make 27,000 dinars and to make 33,000 dinars. There's got to be a proportion. We advocate that the amount of contributions to compulsory social security, which everyone should pay, be in line with the size of the treated country, on the one hand, and the amount of income generated from agriculture. In recent years, there has been an inter-resor working group that has drawn up certain proposals. This is an inter-resort issue, not only in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, not only of the Ministry of Agriculture, so I ask you to do everything in your capacity as Minister of Finance to resolve this issue, to make the burden fairer, and on the other hand to make the revenues bigger, because I am confident that people would pay to a greater extent and these contributions, and that would mean an increase in the budget. A second question or another topic is the issue of restitution. Restitution, the restitution of the seized property works, and I think the Restitution Agency is doing a great job. So I have only words of praise for their activity, but certain frameworks of this process should be defined by the government and parliament. We also advocate amending the Law on Restitution, in order to enable substitution in certain issues and some coefficients should be defined. In that sense, I ask you to do everything in your power to complete the process of restitution in Serbia in a fair manner within a few years, because there is no consolidated democratic state without the completion of the restitution. The third question, which I don't want to talk about very much because it's clear to everyone what it is, is that in dozens of times I've talked about it in this respected home. I said that projects from the AP Vojvodina area are financed to a much greater extent, but the debate on the election of the finance minister cannot be discussed and it is not said that it is necessary to pass a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Please, Mrs. Brnabic, let us put an end to this matter with common forces. I don't want to politicise that question, I don't want to go into details, but it's simply the constitutional obligation of this Parliament, and I hope that the time has finally come when we will put an end to that as well. In advance, I will also do so when the National Assembly declares itself, but since I am convinced that Mr. Mali will be elected, I wish you much happiness in a new position and much success in the interests of all of us and all of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37330	Thank you very much. The word is Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37331	Ladies and gentlemen, dear Sinisha, I will not praise you much or praise you very much. Since it's a parliament, let me persyrate you. What you've been doing so far as Belgrade's mayor on my side has been assessed with a very high score, given that I know how the city is run. I know what you inherited, and I also know what Belgrade looks like today. What's most important is that I'm not going to say in some way that you took what I'm doing, because I didn't patent it, but I'm sure you've come up with certain ideas that international co-operation between the mayors of Belgrade, although in a formal sense they're not looking for, or is not saying we who run cities are making international co-operation... International co-operation by the mayor has contributed to a large number of investors coming to Serbia, a large number of tourists coming to Belgrade. When tourists come to Belgrade from all over the world, they also visit other tourist destinations. So, thanks to you, Belgrade wasn't the only one who benefited while you were running Belgrade. Let me tell you Ministers, it's easy to be a minister when you have Zidan and Ronald in the image of Alexander Vukic and he provides everything and creates conditions, and what's most important is international popularity. International popularity has contributed to a large number of investors coming to Serbia, thus filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of cities in Serbia from their original incomes and from wages tax, which is 70% and something in the budgets of municipalities and cities. I'm just going to give you an example, and I was in Turkey, and that's not my jurisdiction. In Turkey, I was accepted by the president of the Turkish Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey, and Erdogan's deputy Ak Party and discussed with them, and I came to the conclusion that Turkey had become a great friend to Serbia, which was not the case in earlier years when Erdogan came to KIM, when he went to the Raska area and sent other cities militant messages. Erdogan's sending friendly messages today. Today, the largest number of tourists coming to Serbia is from Turkey. Today, there has been a continuity of the last three years for Turkish investors to arrive. When I was in Turkey, I visited several factories and visited a sock factory that wants to open a factory in Serbia, to hire 2,000 workers. Why in Serbia? Because there is economic security, financial stability. You as finance minister have to fight to keep the euro course the same, which is very important, that when someone takes credit at the time of taking credit there is a creditworthiness, but that it doesn't happen like five, six years ago to first go 30% of the loan salary, and only a year and a half or two days, 70% of the war on the employee who took the credit for the apartment. So it's very important that the dinars are stable because in some ways it brings us safe investors. So 95% of the investors who came to Serbia are investors with the market. When an investor comes to you with a market, there is the safety of employees in that factory, in that company. There are safe salaries. There's no obligation of government and state as once that, I don't know, factories can't settle their obligations, go bankrupt, etc. I don't know which factory is strong and came from European countries, went bankrupt. You are expected to have a very large commitment and it is not easy to provide funds to fill the budget, but it is also important that we do not change the laws, such as earlier years, tax laws every seven, eight months and that someone who wants to open a factory, company or shop is not sure whether his product or article produced in his factory will be able to earn wages for workers and what is the obligation in one factory. I can't understand the criticism, okay, the opposition should be critical, but when something is made, something that's nice on the surface, where there were sheds, beautiful objects, and not only will it be beautiful objects. The construction of these buildings and this business centre hired all producers in Serbia, those involved in the production of construction materials, carpentry, cable, not to list all the items. What's most important? The most important thing is that that's where two thousand people are going to work. That's the most important thing. Two thousand new jobs. I'm saying it from experience. In Jagodina at several locations where there were nettles, weeds and grasses, we built a tourist destination there. We have over 33 buildings in diameter of 750 meters. Came up with a couple of crying, came up with a couple of utility for built-up business and new jobs. You know, only one who doesn't do business can criticize it, only one who doesn't know how to make money. I can tell you that you are one of the few ministers where the criteria are not similar, I don't mean these ministers, today and those ministers from the previous, last government, I mean the ministers before 2008, that it's not a criterion of similarity, but a criterion is ability. What are your characteristics, why are you proposed to this function and what is expected of you? I have to tell you, and if I don't mind the other ministers, I appreciate all the ministers and respect, yesterday I told you about "News," but I don't have the right to say it, and I didn't say it on behalf of the government, I said what I think, when they asked me, and I didn't impose that question, the press asked me, I said that two ministers might not be doing... (Vojislav Seselj: E, tell us.) I'll tell you that on June 32nd, 3:00 p.m. You know, not all can be the same, and in a football club to someone, I'm not gonna tell Star and Partizan, there are 18 players who are always in protocol, and they're always tripping two, three, because they came from some clubs, I don't know, stars, Partizans, or some other club, Vojvodina, they're our most trophy clubs in Jagodina. The general government is doing well, but the result that this government achieves, and each of you who says that it has a result, the first sentence is thanks to Alexander Vukic. It bothers me terribly when, for example, you know. Someone says five times in 15 minutes, me like that and that official, or me as a minister. Who the hell are you a minister? I, as a member of the government, who was proposed by Aleksandar Vukic, not because, I don't know, you are currently on the team, or in that function. Ivica Dacic, she does her job well when it comes to international politics... (Vojislav Seselj: What are you replacing him with? What? I don't replace the edge of Dacic. I'm not replacing any ministers, because, you know, we haven't voted in favour of the government, I don't even have the right to exchange, I respect the government. I praise the government wherever I go, yes, you know. So I'm saying it's a very good government. The government is a collective body and for me the government is all ministers in the government, but it's always my first sentence, thanks to Alexander Vukic. You see, I was at Alexander Vukic's on Friday, and he showed me how there was an increase in pensions and what his criteria were. I, who's been in business for over 37 years, and I understand a little bit about how money is made, and I have a vision and a feeling sometimes what's going to be for the next five, six years, and so on, I'm very pleasantly surprised. So you, Sinisha Mali, say thanks to Alexander Vukic and Vlada, here's a pension will be increased, I don't know, benefit these, they etc. Thanks to Alexander Vukic, a large number of investors came from Germany. Thanks to Alexander Vukic, relations with BiH are so positive. If anyone had been instead of Alexander Vukic in Srebrenica and had experienced what he had experienced, I am sure on his return to Serbia, he would have changed rhetoric or messages when it came to co-operation with BiH, etc. What he did, he invited Izetbegovic, took him to Duke Michael Street, played chess with him. So come on, you Bosniaks and those other peoples, when someone goes out of Serbia to those former republics, to be as welcoming as we Serbs are. Here, Vojislav Seselj bought a house in the Krtkovci and sent me a message to help him with the house. I say - Vojo, I don't have any money, but when a man enters the house, I'll give you a vacuum cleaner, one refrigerator and a TV, right, Vojo. (Vojislav Seselj: A freezer? I don’t want the freezer, because you don’t want to live in that house, but you will occasionally leave and see what your plan and goal is. So, Sinisha Mali has a score and Sinisha Mali is with biography and SV Syniche Mali may be on 50-ac A4 pages, because he was learning financial work both in America and in some other country, but not just learning, but mastering it. There have been ministers since 2008, they say -- we're going to learn this job. It's not a working university, so you can learn what the surplus is, what the deficit is, what the original incomes are. I guarantee you, I don't mind some colleagues, but now you bring me a few payment orders and you ask them what a cessium is, what a nivelation is, what a calculation is, what an assignation, God killed me if they know. But we don't need to know these terms, we need to know that when we invest in something, that something creates income in this country. And that something is called income, there is continuity for three years, such as Zidan and Ronaldo, which they have won for three years and become Europe's football champions. You know that I don't flatter anyone, that what I think I'm saying, knows that and Voja, here's the thing - we know. So I'm saying for what's wrong, I commend what's good, etc. And when I see the president of the Wolf, I tell him what I think is bad. Lucky for me, I've got less and less bad to tell him and I'm getting ready for that meeting with him. It's all positive stuff. Now it's the topic of Kosovo and you'll have it all the time, I'm sure, that burden, but as Vucic inherited Kosovo and this government. It was a beautiful garden, the rabbits came in, ate the cabbage and the rest just the brakes. With stops to feed Serbia and to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are Serbian territories that have been kidnapped. (Vojislav Seselj: What were these rabbits? There were rabbits, but now they know, he says – when the rabbit comes back to the old legal one, the hunter kills him. So these rabbits are no longer in some positions, which is good for Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija are a very big problem. Now, don't start talking about whether we're gonna do this, like, or I don't know what. Still an official ultimatum and a condition does not exist for us to enter the EU that we must recognise an independent Kosovo, but dialogue yes, compromise yes. If Vucic received 55% of the votes as a candidate and today the president of Serbia, he also has great responsibility and Serbian citizens must support him. We from the JS will support what is a state-run policy and I am sure that this policy will not harm either individual or collectively or Serbia. I have to say that in Belgrade today every child born, after a year, has a place in kindergarten, which wasn't the case. In 2012, 32 families from Belgrade moved to Jagodin, because Jagodina had the best conditions and the best social programme and the fight against the white plague. We made four kindergartens and there was plenty of room for all the children from other cities who wanted to live in Jagodina. Today in Belgrade, that's not the case. You know, when you take care of those who are the future of this country, then I'm sure this country's future is very good and safe. What else is important? What is the unemployment rate in Belgrade today? It is that Belgrade is interesting for all the citizens of the interior and you have this problem that monthly you may not know how much, I don't know, and I don't know, they come to Belgrade monthly to live in Belgrade. What else? Our students from the interior who come to Belgrade from those smaller towns and municipalities of 95% of these students do not return to municipalities and cities from where they are from. While I'm at it, I have to say that that's what Vukic's worried about, so he opens factories in Lebank, Prokuplje and some other smaller municipalities that have fewer and fewer inhabitants every year. So, future minister, since I'm sure you'll be elected, you have a hard job to do, but when you know that job and there's motive and will to work, and you've already had a chance to show yourself, Unique Serbia will give you support and vote for you and be proud to be the only government minister voted by the Unique Serbia. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37332	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals will vote against the elections of Cynthia Malloy as Minister of Finance. Although Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, here she read a hearty letter, that at some point I almost cried out of such praises to those engaged in one place, on one subject, about one man. I thought in a moment they might suggest it since such a good mayor was to be another term. But they're pushing him into an oatmeal now, and how will Sinisha Mali manage in that oatmeal? Since this regime is in power, it will be the third finance minister. First they brought in one of the jets, there's nothing offensive about that word, it's too young for the jets, it's said, which the government thought was a nice place to play marbles. They praised him, presented him to the world's genius, and in the end there was nothing of him. Come on, well, if I hadn't heard he was in some criminal affair, it'd still be easier for me. (Radoslav Milojičić: He only destroyed Savamala. You haven't heard who I'm talking about, Keno. I'm talking about you right now, so he's running a little bit. We now have the departure of the second minister, who is also represented by the top expert, and the government and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, cannot tell us why Dusan Vujovic left, and I spoke more than a month before he left. I've brought up in public the criminal affairs he's involved in. Why am I saying this now in front of the future minister, because I expect you to have a voting machine that will certainly choose him? To learn some lessons from all that. However, instead of putting Dusan Vujovic in prison, I see today from some newspapers that he is planning for counselling, he cannot be a minister because he is caught in crime, but he can be a consultant, he can also advise from prison. I advised that poor man Tomislav Nikolic out of prison for nothing, even sent instructions in writing, but as soon as he got his money, his brain evaporated completely. The smell of money is so intoxicated. What was Dusan Vujovic doing? First, he made great manipulations about the Commercial Bank, in which the state still has 36% of its participation, so there, although he was in charge of overseeing the situation at the Commercial Bank due to inaction, at the very least, everything was heading towards the collapse of the value of the bank in order to sell what was cheaper. Minister Dusan Vujovic was caught there, but it is not the most important work. Dusan Vujovic was caught in an even bigger part, that in co-operation with the Chinese Nazis, which is the successors of those who during World War II as Hitler's allies formed the SS division "Galicia" to become so-called. An independent adviser to the Ukrainian state railways, with executive powers in the huge business of transferring these railways from a wide-ranging so-called. Russian track to the European so-called It's a normal track. It is a huge amount of money drawn from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. That's what Dusan Vujovic has built in, and Ukraine has no chance of ever returning that loan, because if there's anything more irrational that the Ukrainian state is working at this point, then it's changing the width of the rail tracks. All goods are now transported by containers, easy to transfer containers at the border from that medium or normal track to wide and vice versa. It's hours of work, and they all take off, so they put new ones on all the railroads in Ukraine, it's digging Ukraine, 15 meters underground. I'm not sorry that Ukraine is going to fail, or I'm sorry about the Ukrainian people, there's the most Russians alive, they're all Russians in the wider sense, I'm sorry about that poor girl, but I'm glad that regime out there is going to bury itself. Why didn't you go public as prime minister and say why Dusan Vujovic had to leave? You didn't tell us that. Since I made all this announcement at the press conferences, revenge has arrived, which I found out about the other day. I go to the Commercial Bank to open a foreign exchange account, to buy a house in the Krtkovci, I borrow money, this is the only one I asked for, Palma didn't want to give cash, the rest of them gave. I didn't ask Prime Minister Brnabic, of course, she's too high a power for me to dare. So, they open my foreign exchange account and I go to get the money to file that bill, when they call me after two hours, a daunting clerk, get a warrant from the headmaster to close my account right away, ask me to come in and sign my consent to close my account. For what? Business secret bank. And I'm not leaving, of course, I still have that bill, but I can't bet on anything. My son, Michael, opens in another bank, at Intesa Bank. Let's pay for the house, how much it cost, when after two days and that account in it is closed. What do you mediate? On the proposal of Minister Vujovic, the government of the Republic of Serbia put me and my sons on the list of terrorists. I ask some ministers, with whom I have a little better relations, they say – they don't remember that it was at the government's session. Do you remember Prime Minister Brnabic? I guess she'll tell us today. Anyway, the government put me on that list, maybe she did it on the phone. Maybe it was the Ministry on behalf of the government just carried out. The list puts persons on a proposal from competent state authorities, on the basis of a reasonable belief that he is the face of terrorists, that he is funding terrorism and that he is involved in the activities of a terrorist group or in the conduct of a terrorist act. These are big words and it's not enough to put me on that list, I guess there's still something to be done, if that's true. I will now have to judge with the Serbian government why I'm on that list, why? I know what Dusan Vujovic wanted. He knows that I'm in the City Bank in New York, and he's actually based in Puerto Rico, so I'm not subject to U.S. law, I have $70,000, because he's putting me on this list, instead of getting that money back now that the Hague verdict is legal, now he's going to capture them again and there's no going back. Until I die. I'll be a terrorist until I die. As I'm a terrorist today, I'll be both tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and every day and I can't be less terrorists than I am, I can only be bigger and bigger. There, this is Minister Vujovic, whose place is today Sinisa Mali. (Marian Risticevic: "Wolf Jeremic"? And Wolf Jeremic, well, he's a terrorist on the other side. Sinisa Mali, Goran Vesic even smaller, but he's not coming to the government, is he, what happened to him? You don't know yet. Okay. I had to make a little joke after my grief took hold of me. What's the new minister gonna do? We warned Minister Vujovic, we warned the government, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, that they must finally submit each year's final budget accounts. Vujovic did not do this out of spite. Vujovic defied the National Assembly. Would you, Mr. Mali, follow the law and file a final bill within the legal time limit? We also hear Anna Brnabic and Aleksandra Vukic, full of praise for having a budget surplus, however, we have no evidence. What is this surplus based on? Let's see how the final account stands, that it's not a random surplus based on the fact that some of the users of the budget are not paid, or not paid in time, or that some of the government's state-owned companies have not been paid off, those who have provided services to the state, etc.? Let's see. I don't see anything until I have the paper in front of me. We need to show every item, see where that surplus came from, so let me commend you if it's really a surplus, if you've paid for all your obligations. Or to criticize you, if you're not. I guess that's the basic thing. Ladies and gentlemen, in these troubled times, the government must be urgently reconstructed. I am amazed that you, Mrs. Brnabic, have ventured to go only to the choice of one minister without immediately agreeing to the reconstruction of the entire government. We have very dangerous information coming to us. That information is confirmed by the official state authorities, President Vukic himself confirms it and therefore the government must consolidate. Anyone with any potential, or who is suspicious, must be expelled from the government. The minister doesn't have to prove why he's being kicked out of the government. It is simply not the will of the prime minister, casts out, who is suspected of being ready to play the role of the Fifth Column of the new Milan Nedic. Let's see who's transferring all that information from the government to the Western embassies in Belgrade. Zorana Mihajlovic, is that his last name, is that she spent state money using her minister's card to buy the world's most expensive underwear in New York. There's a candidate for the situation. Or, to change the Zlatibor Lonchar. The biggest corruption of this regime is corruption in medicine, in the area of the procurement of technical means and drugs. I've also been taking data to several press conferences, and three years ago, and recently, etc. I've been taking out documents and stuff like that. Sam Vukic recently said that the health ministry's lack of a billion euros has disappeared. Do you remember that statement? It's not untraceable. You know where she goes. It disappears in the area of public procurement. The biggest affair of all time has been at the Clinical Center in Nis. And that's exactly what I've given you, and you've got more on the Internet. They took me off Facebook there, I don't even have a Facebook warrant anymore, I don't have a Facebook account anymore. You think you can shut me down? You can't. It's just that none of you know where I'm shutting down. That's the problem. Says Vukic yesterday, is that what he said yesterday, he commended the police, well, maybe the police deserve to be praised, people work for small wages and do a huge job and every honour, in the fight against large-scale crime, they've failed, because the regime has no good will to expose these affairs until the end, and you have to hurry to it, Vukic says – now he's sure that no prime minister can kill, thanking the police for being able to prevent it. However, there is another danger. I do not believe anyone in Serbia plans to kill the prime minister today, as the prime minister does not fit the collection. We Serbs killed one prince, Prince Mihajl Obrenovic, in the last 150 years, and one king, King Aleksandr Obrenovic, so we killed one prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, means the place of prime minister is filled. In foreign interests, but Serbs were perpetrators, approximately. (Marian Risticevic: It is not Serbs. ) In Djindjic, in his doubt, an Englishman did it, but the killing was covered up by the Dosmanal regime, and I keep trying to get things back to square one and get these processes restored, so let's start with who shot Dusan Spasojevic and Milet Lukovic godfather, and so on, to clarify that. That's my goal, but now it's a little dyspression. Furthermore, we Serbs killed a minister. You don't know who, do you? The only thing he could know is lazanski. It is Minister Milorad Draskovic, in Delnice, 1921. Who killed him? ) He was killed by a Serb Muslim faith. What do you want? We Serbs killed him, someone among us. And who has never been killed in Serbia? The President of the Republic. Well, here's the key problem. Are you concerned enough about the dangers they're threatening? Your regime papers are publishing information about it. I personally have some knowledge and everything I find out I bring out in public. I also brought out everything I knew before Djindjic's murder, that there would be bloodshed in Serbia. In the National Assembly, I said, when I gave a speech, Vladan Batic threw something at me and others – The Hague, The Hague, The Hague, you are waiting for The Hague. Yes, I say, I've got The Hague waiting for you on May 28th. I will come back from The Hague once, and whom I shall find here, in this hall, and behold, God has given me not to find many. I'm even sorry for some, and for some, it's not. It's normal, I guess, human, to feel sorry for someone and not feel sorry for someone. But it wouldn't be good for Serbia if it happened to us. That's why the government has to be consolidated. Of course, he likes to travel. He's got to watch out for poisoning or his plane gets shot down. Wherever they call, he likes to travel. That's not good. For example, if that were to happen, what would the government do? What would our prime minister do if an American ambassador came in, including a British ambassador along with Zorana Mihajlovic and said, "Here, she will be in charge of the government as of today?" Do you have the mechanisms to stop it? In today's government structure, in my opinion, you don't. Reconstitute the government as soon as possible. Reconstitute the government so that we can face the worst problems that are yet to come. Don't save anyone, or Zorana Mihajlović, or this Zlatibor Lončar, and this sport-related guy, the poor guy, and he's got to get into something somewhere to scratch himself, as it is called, Vanja Udovici, you don't mind me not remembering the long names of athletes. That's what I wanted to tell you about today's election of the new finance minister, to see if the new minister will act according to the law and will meet his obligations? Will it work to control the spending of budget money, will the ministries be controlled? They've never been controlled before.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37334	Time. Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87 of paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, it informs you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37335	Thank you. First of all, I want to tell you that I am extremely pleased that my address and report on the results achieved by Cynthia Mali, as mayor of Belgrade, so emotionally touched you and that you have found yourself affected by all these successes. I did the same thing when I wrote everything that was done in four years over the weekend, believe me, and I was overjoyed. There's nothing particularly heartwarming about it except that they're really great successes. It's all verifiable and everything's black on white. So it's easy to check the length of the city and that it's been halved. It's easy to check for deficits in the city register and it's now down four times. It is also easy to check that Belgrade first received a credit rating in history and that it has already increased compared to 2016 when it was won. It's easy to check what's in the register that we have 12.8 billion dinars in the city register today. It is easy to check that we have 72,000 seats for kindergarten children today, that it was only 47,500 and that today it costs about 5,590 dinars per month for parents in Belgrade, and that it cost 9,700 dinars and today it is support for families of 14,000 dinars, that 14,000 new mothers were supported, and that there were before 3,500 thousand mothers who were supported by the City of Belgrade and that the unemployment rate was reduced by 25,500. These are ultimately the results of the Republic Statistics Institute. So, I think it would be fair for the SRS to vote in favour of introducing Sinisha Mali to the government, to help us have similar results in the Republic and to try to work on fiscal discipline as well. I think it's good for the citizens of Serbia and that it will eventually lead to higher salaries and higher pensions, that trend that we already have in the last three years, and that it will actually lead to the fact that we have as many investors as possible, whether domestic or foreign. When they come here and open up companies here, they hire our people and then they become domestic investors. So for all of these reasons, again, I just wanted to get back to you, to tell you that it's easy, that these are easily verifiable results and that you're right to get hit emotionally. As for the fact that you and your family are on the terrorist list, it wasn't the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and for the first time I've heard about it, so I'm going to check it out myself. My personal opinion is that it's not right and we'll deal with it. As far as the final budget account is concerned, it's certainly important that we start to do it and no matter what it hasn't been done so far, I think rarely in 2000 on this side. Here, Sinisha Mali, as mayor of every year, submitted to the City Assembly the final bill, so we'll see that this practice changes, too. For more of these other things, I just want to tell you and to tell all Serbian citizens that Serbia is a stable, safe state today, that as far as possible there is no danger, that today thanks to huge investments in both the military and the police today, security and the President of the Republic, and I mean all the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are at an envious level. Of course, it is not just up to us and our armies, the police and security services, but as far as we can, we have raised Serbia to one envious level of security. So, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should not worry about it, and what is particularly important and I think we will agree together, it is that Serbia has shown that no foreign factor can in any way affect the policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic and the National Assembly, which is true, I agree with you. There has been no situation in the past, but today Serbia is an independent, stable, safe state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37336	Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37337	Mrs. Brnabic, I was surprised that you did not answer my two main questions about Dusan Vujovic's affairs, I guess that's the most important thing now. You promised, and I'm glad you'd bring the bar for last year's final bill, so let's see how you spent your money and if you really had a regular surplus. As far as Minister Vujovic is concerned, it remains only to see what he will be like, Minister Mali, yes. It can't be worse than Vujovic, can it? What you've given his biography impressively, it's an honor to you, I've had such a biography from high school, but then it wasn't worth much to me, but let's see these affairs of Dusan Vujovic and see what you'll do with that reconstruction and will you remove this worst ballast from the government? Can you get into a crisis situation that can come suddenly, unplanned? Here, we hear 18 million dollars already authorized the Americans to move. The newspapers say it was based in Skopje, it used to be in Budapest. I can't go to Budapest right now because in Hungary it's a friendly regime and Hungary won't get involved. But from Macedonia, let's see if the government is ready to stand up to it. If you are going to continue to perform as an open band, then you will not be able and why do you keep dangerous elements in government? If you hold a corrupt man, know that foreigners have more information about him than our services and that they hold him in their hands the most. If you're holding on to someone who's known to be a spy, then what?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37338	The word now has Alexander Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37339	Ladies and gentlemen, first thing, one small formal objection in the way the agenda is formulated. Namely, it says here – the choice of candidates and swearing, but we do not know at the moment of formulating the agenda whether the candidate will be elected, so there should be one "if", especially considering that we have very many amendments lately and that both the opposition and the ruling majority are keen to criticise, and perhaps even the candidate says – this is a very dangerous job, perhaps I should return to the mayor's seat. You never know. With great probability, I'm sure we'll choose him as minister. I have several questions regarding how the candidate thinks he runs the Finance Ministry in some areas that I think are extremely important, both for the economy and for the citizens of Serbia. From 2014 to 2018, the fact is that the previous minister managed to cut down a major deficit and a large hidden deficit that existed and stabilise public finances. It's a result that's undeniable. When it comes to stabilising public finances, it is, as I say, a trade job that requires readiness for some painful moves, requires political support, but essentially, it is a business of technical nature. What is a real challenge when you once stabilise public finances, how the system that exists in Serbia begins to produce economic growth. And there's a very big role for the finance minister. He is not one of the key influences, but the impact of your fiscal policy is extremely significant. What we have today, and what some objective mirrors tell us, I trust mirrors and the IMF and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Reconstruction and the World Bank, when they give their mirrors, that Serbia's biggest problem is that we have a low investment rate, and when we dismember the investment rate that exists in Serbia, they say, foreign investments are quite large in Serbia, we can agree or not whether subsidies are the best way to attract them, but domestic investment is low. Now the question is, I'm going to use a metaphor that a respected candidate certainly knows, which is that you can bring a horse to the river, but you can't get him to drink water. At this point, in our river, which is quite clear, swim low interest rates, swims plenty of capital, both banking and other, but domestic firms don't dare invest. They have some reasons. When we look at the reasons, we can say, okay, if they're afraid we haven't reformed the judiciary, which is a job that doesn't last 200 years, as some might say, how long it took the Anglo-Saxons to build a beautiful legal system, but it doesn't last a year or two. We can't remove that in two, three years, we need to work on it, during Eurointegration mostly, and it's going to be our biggest job. But what can we do at the moment to increase domestic investment? The domestic companies have said that many times - cut our taxes to the lowest wages. While there was a budget deficit, it could be said -- maybe it's not the right time for that. At this point, when we boasted that in the first trimester, which is not exactly the best indicator for forecasting growth at the level of the year, that we would have significant growth, the question arises - how will we use growth? Will growth be used to simultaneously increase wages and pensions, which should be done especially where pensions have been temporarily reduced, and bonds to return what was taken in previous years should also be considered? Are we going to use this for even more public investment or are we going to free some of the growth to generate sustainable growth, free it for tax cuts and contributions to the lowest wages? This would also give a blow to the gray economy, not by hitting it, but by giving a good incentive to people not to be paid to hire someone on black for a salary that is at minimumor level or closer to the minimumer, because it costs you to raise cash in black from the account. So the incentive would disappear. We'd have a one-time effect on growth, on registered GDP, and we'd give a momentum in years that aren't like these. We live in years of phenomenal conukture, and that is why the conukture has fueled Serbia's growth. But relevant international organisations say -- if you don't do some reforms that would stimulate the growth of domestic and small and medium-sized enterprises' investments and those of small, dark hats, we won't be able to be, say, like Poland, which, at the time of the biggest crisis in 2009 was the only one with growth in Europe, we won't have rates of 6% or 7%. Serbia can have that if it solves all problems and makes a reasonable legal system, and above all, if it reduces some taxes. That's one important question. Another question that's based on this first. Some things have been done that are very important in public debt management. The first thing that is very important in this whole story is that some loans that have been taken unrealistically or at that point at possible interest rates that cannot be justified at the rate of GDP growth in Serbia. What is very important for the future of growth in Serbia is to change the maturity of the debt, so that at this point, the debt, which, for example, amounts to and decreases, is that the burden of the payments is lower if we set it to 20, not 10 years on average or 12. If we were to do good management of the debt of the Republic of Serbia, we would have plenty of room left to do developmental things in the budget, that is, to reduce the burden of payment that we would have on the public debt at the annual level, we could use it to cut taxes and encourage investment and make that plan so that the long-term economy has a promise that every year it will get better and better when they work. It's actually the best move the state can make to show the economy to take care of her. There comes a big question, where again we have a good part of the answer in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, which is what drives growth and how to attract the tax policy of that branch that produces great added value. We have now done what we could to, as I say, reduce unemployment through jobs that do not give great added value to Serbia. Although, the little one's better than no one. But the question – how do we encourage job creation with great additional value, because it encourages productivity, it encourages investment, rapid GDP growth and people staying in Serbia, great added value. That when we look at Serbia's level, it was painfully obvious, let's say, Belgrade, which is the center of industry, with great added value, you'll notice how much it bounces from the region, where we've all focused on branches that don't have much added value. What my question is – how will you use this very good time and when it comes to public debt and when it comes to the possibility of tax cuts? Because it's a well-known thing that countries develop much better, businesses, when taxes are lower and, of course, when the legal system is perfect. We can't fix this quickly. Also, my question for the candidate is – are you in favour of introducing fiscal rules in Serbia very clearly? At this point, we have in the Law on the Budgetary System clearly defined what the maximum level of debt of the consolidated state of Serbia is. It's not respected and it doesn't change the law. Are you in favour of having clear rules on how much the maximum debt, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia can be? What is the policy when it comes to deficits and surpluses, that is, how do we achieve a long-term balance of budget and when can we go into deficits? Is this done at a time when we have a crisis, so we act countercyclically or sometimes, when you have a high rate of GDP growth, expected by all relevant international factors, can it then go into deficits and get that growth in advance? So you're not waiting for whether it's 4% or 5%, you're saying -- we're cutting taxes and contributions because we know it's going to happen. That's the way. Of course, it's my opinion, you don't have to share it, there are a lot of different opinions in the economy, how can we from the stage when the fiscous is fixed, come into a phase when our economy is growing. So one big deal's settled, but I'm saying it's simpler. We are followed by a great work that is structural and not simple, but which produces much more pleasure if done well. A fourth question that is also very important to me. There's one thing that just happened to be the result, as I would say, of the unfortunate way that we've had some public finances that have had shortfall for years and then you've had constant transfers from one level to another, you take someone more to patch up elsewhere, and that's a pretty logical thing when you have a problem. When you do, you usually grow something you don't want, and it's called parafiscals. So when you take something from the public sector, he says -- check, now I'm going to see how I can handle it. So the question for the candidate for minister is – do you have a plan to continue a job that has been well started twice in the last six years and try out the parafiscals to narrow down to the least possible extent? Because the state of Serbia is pretty much out of the source of the procedure, but it is important that the sources be generous and simple. The economy is critical, if you run a small and medium-sized company, it's very important that you don't have to think about how you're going to pay 10, 12, 15 charges if you can just do it with two or three. Parafiscals are a problem and they're getting rid of it. On the other hand, I can also send praises for CES' work on the Belgrade level, where the problem has been tackled. But this time, Serbia is very big and the problems are very deep, and they paraphrase something that really bothers the economy, which is not issued for the budgets, which creates burdens and administrative operations for the economy and, among other things, unpredictability. Because someone who runs a relatively small business is a problem sometimes to wash away what needs to be paid for, and sometimes it's a burden that can even be said symbolic, but it takes time and, of course, threatens to sanction if it's not done within the right time. My fifth question, which I also find very important. It is essential to avoid any abuse of VAT. The VAT is the highest source of income in the state budget, and that is not disputed. And VAT is the best way to fill the budget. Of course, excise duties are important, not to lie, all countries are significantly full of budgets and excise duties, but VAT comes first. A good, very good thing is that you take care of it and who can get rid of it, and that someone doesn't get a release, who can't do it by law, because, let's say, he was creative in interpreting the law. However, many people in the economy complain that they are late for VAT vomiting. It's a good thing the liquidity loans aren't expensive right now, but my question is, what are you going to do to speed up this process? I know that I-gavrment is not introduced quickly in Serbia and that it is one big job and a good job. I've said more than once that I was sad when I saw some crazy efforts happening in Serbia against new technologies. The question here is, what are you going to do to get the VAT back faster because it's very important for some companies not to get involved even though they have good business ventures? Well, it's a very side-by-side question, but I think it's important from a social point of view. Are you going to cancel the VAT on a drug donation? I know we had to save, but we haven't introduced any innovative therapy in Serbia since 2012, and the world has moved forward. So my question is, are you going to cancel the VAT on drug donations? But it would encourage many pharmaceutical companies to donate not generic, but even drugs of a younger generation. Finally, another thing that has hurt many people in Serbia who are dealing with small businesses, are we going to wait for that day, and I believe that you understand a small business, a respected candidate, that people who are in the flat tax system know how much they're going to have at the beginning of the year, and not at the beginning of the year and a half after that, because, you know, for someone, there's also a difference of 100,000 dinars on the annual level of houses. The task of politics and the government's tasks and the mission of the finance minister is not too much to take care of those who will survive in each system. The great survives. The task of the economy, the task of every policy, I deeply believe in it, is to take care of those who are on the margin whether they will be in business or not, to take care of those who are on the sidelines whether they stay, be employed or unemployed. The whole economy is the science of marginal size and the task is that as many people as possible, who may be their own bosses and have no employees, we give them a chance to stay in business, because it's better to have someone in business who even earns not much more than people who work for pay, but not to be on the burden budget or not to be on the burden in some other way. That's one important thing. Are you going to solve the problem with the cobwebs? From me these five questions. I hope and expect, in fact, that I will certainly get quality answers, and thank you all for your attention. Our parliamentary group will have another short series of questions in this announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37340	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37341	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that all the questions are really in place, and I think we have full understanding in that. Which is why, what's important to me, and I didn't say in my opening statement, and you gave me a good basis to say a little bit more about it, which is why I think Sinisha Mali is the best candidate for the finance minister right now. Because the future finance minister has, for me at least as Prime Minister, two basic challenges ahead of him, two basic tasks. One is to retain financial discipline, to do everything possible to keep the current state of the budget and the responsible spending that we have done thanks to everything that the previous government has done, and this government continues. That's the first assignment. The second task is certainly to create conditions for much faster and much more dynamic economic growth. So much faster GDP growth. Cynthia's experience with the economy is, I mean, what gives him the right mix of his skills and knowledge between finance and economy. I think the finance minister who will manage to work with the entire team in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to create such a financial and economic environment where we can have much faster economic growth. What's certainly good is that we're like the government, and I said that in my exposé, our basic task was to have and create a basis for much faster, but also to maintain economic growth. It's a good thing we had the first quarter, which is very good with a GDP of 4.5%, which is one of the highest rates in Europe. I think only Hungary has 4.7% in Europe, but the EU has a 2.4% growth. So 4.5% is fantastic and something we have to do our best to maintain. So that's one of the reasons why I think Sinisa Mali is a very good candidate for what stands as a task, as a major task for the Serbian government. As for the low investment rate, it's certainly getting better. As for foreign direct investment, we had last year, which historically was one of the best of the 2.6 billion attracted total foreign direct investments without any privatisations. We also had a historic budget for 2018 for the largest public investment budget of 128 billion dinars, and I am glad that we are finally able to have a good budget implementation, which is in addition to having and hope for better growth than planned, and that was 3.5% for this year. At this point, we're looking at how to keep it for 2019 and we're going to have more money in the budget than 128 billion dinars for public investment. Our small and medium-sized enterprises are recording a good trend, and that's the Agency for Business Registers, and she said. I'll try to find out how much we had for the last time. I don't have it right now, but I'll get back to you, and I'll find this information. What is important is also that thanks to the mechanism introduced by the NBS at the moment we are monitoring and how much employment in the sector is growing in small and medium-sized enterprises and this and the number of jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. What it is and has been a huge problem for small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia and the obstacle to their growth and the greater number of small and medium-sized enterprises was a grey economy. As a result, the previous government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a decision to fight the grey economy in 2017 and 2018. We kept doing it. One of the most positive movements in this direction was adopted the 2015 inspection control Act, unless I'm wrong, which makes inspection supervision much more transparent, much more predictable for inspections. It greatly reduces the corruption of inspections by being legally, and now it's being implemented, you have clearly published control lists for all 40 and some inspections, so when the inspector comes he can't ask you all sorts of questions and check everything and stuff. You already know exactly what they're going to ask you and what they're checking and if it comes out of those checklists you don't have to answer to. In addition, what was most amazing to me is that you first introduced inspection supervision of unregistered facilities, which practically before 2015 the state itself stimulated small and medium-sized enterprises to work in the gray zone because the inspections for you were not competent. Although there is an inspection not responsible for you unless you're registered. So basically, before 2015, we pushed the economy into the gray zone ourselves. This will further improve and there will be additional transparency that will ensure fair market conditions for all. Since September of this year, when we finally introduce the five largest inspections under the single platform E – Inspector, and then until May 2019 and all inspections together, when the work of inspection will be fully transparent for all economic operators in Serbia. As for the wage charge, we went into the budget last year for this year when we increased the untaxable share of personal income and significantly, from 11.790 dinars to 15,000 dinars. We're still quite conversational about fiscal stability, but that's something we're going to look at, which we're going to be working on with the new finance minister. There are two of the most important elements of faster growth. One is public investment, and that is what we have done, the other are less imposing on the economy, and that is what we have started, and what we will continue to see with the new finance minister, but also as a whole team of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also with a new IMF arrangement that has a clear goal. The goal is faster and more dynamic sustainable GDP growth, the growth of the Serbian economy and the second one is greater income for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for opening jobs with great additional value, I think we have to agree that there is no government that has talked more about it and worked more on it than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, the first priority is digitization. I think it is one of the things that is crucial in creating a much different and much better future for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am particularly pleased to propose to Sinisha Mali as a candidate for the finance minister, as the mayor who has fully recognised it and whose mandate has finally opened the Scientific and Technology Park. I'll tell you now, it's not just about when this science and technology park as an infrastructure facility is over because it's finished before the mayor of Sinisha Mali's term. If I'm not mistaken, we can check the infrastructure facility, the construction of the Science and Technology Park was completed in 2008 or 2012. I think it's 2008, but I need to check it out. Since then no one has had enough understanding to support that science and technology park as a science and technology park. He was standing, falling apart, and in the end, the state administration was moving into the Science and Technology Park. The state administration that we're still moving from the Science and Technology Park at the moment. So Sinisa Mali, as mayor, recognized the importance of start-up ap companies, innovation companies, recognized the importance of value-added business, which in just a year and a half moved into the Science and Technology Park over 60 start-ups of innovation companies and we today have over 500 engineers working there and creating added value for the Republic of Serbia. So in that sense, I think the best candidate right now is for what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is going to do and at this point is doing. As for the parafiscals, the huge problem of Serbia's economy. In December, the Ministry of Finance held a public debate on parafiscal laws and fees, and I hope that we will finish this demanding job before the end of this year. It is certainly one of the things that will be found in the new arrangement with the IMF, so that we will have control and additional pressure and objective partners who will work with us in reforming this important thing. Certainly one of the great things that will be one of the priorities on the new finance minister's agenda. As for VAT vomiting, unfortunately there was a great delay because it appeared, believed or not, the VAT mafia, and in the meantime we had to have much more stringent control over which VAT returns because of the huge abuses. I asked the Director of the Tax Administration how it's going now, and she says we're going back to the legal frameworks, or a 45-day period for VAT refund. The weighted exporters are currently receiving vomiting within 15 days, with full compliance with all the conditions for vomiting. If the controls are in progress, in which case the VAT won't return until the controls are complete, but this is what we're working on with the IRS. In the end, the reform has dropped something that we are now entering and something that will be on the finance minister's agenda. I can tell you that my team has been in the last 15 days since I took over as acting V.D. The finance minister organized on the FON together with the old ap innovation companies a joint work on how we can enter into the reform of the paushals, which is to make a simple, completely transparent, electronic-accessible matrix so that every cobwebler can type in his parameters and immediately know for himself how much flat tax will be, and not that, like so far, any tax inspector can practically determine the basis. I am pleased to tell you that I think we fully agree on what the finance minister should do and, in that sense, as I believe I have managed to tell the SRS that what Sinisha Mali has done as mayor has managed to do for the city's register and that these are completely verifiable results, since they were emotionally affected by all these successes, I expect that they still vote, if their heart is in the right place, for Sinisha Mali for the finance minister. I expect you to vote for the finance minister and ask you to vote for Sinisha Malia as finance minister, because he is just a person who has shown that he has enough knowledge from finance and that he has enough knowledge and experience from the economy to meet the goals that are set before the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37342	Jovan Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37343	Thank you. I get the word symbolically at exactly noon. After all we have heard from the Prime Minister, a logical question arises – if all these successes are indeed so, why Mr. Mali is not a candidate for the Prime Minister and not only for the Minister of Finance, but Mr. Markovic has already said what we all know, who determines in fact the Minister of Government, that it is not the Prime Minister, but the President of the State. Of course, her excuse is that she is the technocrat prime minister, but the constitution does not know the category of the technocrat president of the government and that it cannot be an excuse not to use its constitutional powers. What is crucial for today's debate is that the new finance minister is not actually elected at this session, but rather the guardian of the vaults of the captured state, or those who have captured the state and whose part of the biggest team or better said team is Mr. Sinisha Mali. His predecessor, Minister Vujovic, resigned because he no longer wanted to tolerate growing negative tendencies that he obviously could not influence. Strengthening the informal parallel system, the constant increase in politically motivated spending of budget reserve funds, the absence of control of the Tax Administration, the problem of governance at all levels, or the absence of coordination. So that I do not seem to have many nice words about the former minister, as well as to adequately paint the context in which the newly elected minister will be found, I will look first at the results of Dusan Vujovic's ministry. What I object most to is that the burden of stabilising public finances has passed on to pensioners, doctors, health care, education, public service, while at the same time practically left the privileges of public enterprises intact, instead of doing exactly the opposite, as well as dissipating the domestic economy. This policy has led to the further destruction of society, which has caused mass emigration of educated people of the younger and middle generation, as well as the real exodus of doctors and health workers in general, which is devastating for the future of the country. On the other hand, most of the funds have been withdrawn into the republican budget to ensure that the budget is stabilised, so local self-governments have been brought to bankruptcy, and public enterprises have not only funds for investment but also funds for ongoing maintenance. The price of such treatment is minimal economic growth, the smallest in our region in recent years. I will remind you that all the countries in the region are affected by different crises and problems, but that our economic growth is, for example, our economic growth. multiplely smaller than our neighbour's growth, perhaps because the country has been in the EU for more than 10 years. Of course, the lack of economic growth is not only due to this fiscal policy, but it is largely due to the widespread corruption, nepotism and party employment, the lack of law enforcement, as well as the collapse and devising of institutions, including the one in which we are sitting today. Finally, the extremely limited resources Serbia has are spent in a non-transparent way and on projects whose contribution to economic growth is at least discriminatory, such as "Berograda on Water", where the state invests billions for infrastructure, and profit goes to a private investor chosen without any procedure, then for remonting aircraft received on a gift, building cheap and expensive spine fountains, masts, monuments and similar pointless projects. Most of the projects previously mentioned are what connects Minister Vujovic with his successor, which I will now say more about and I am sorry that he came out. First of all, I have to point out that it's not easy for me to talk about Mr. Mal, because I've known him for almost 20 years. In fact, we met in Washington at a time when we were in postgraduate studies through Ron Brown scholarships for young leaders from Central and Eastern Europe. But precisely because I know him and we belong to an extraordinary network that Serbia gathers several dozen, and in the region several hundred successful people, I have a special obligation to speak and express my opinion of his work shared by most of those whose opinions he should care about. So here I have to correct the Prime Minister who pointed out these days that he's a Sinisha Little FullBright, and he's not. Fulbright's scholarship is primarily assigned to post-doctoral research projects. By the way, on behalf of Ron Braun, I participated in the reconstruction of Fulbright's association at that time in Yugoslavia and under the umbrella of this association I introduced Ron Brown as well as the scholarships of some other US government programmes. I will certainly agree with most critics of Mr. Malo's nomination, most resented by a large number of unexplained affairs, as well as the way a few led the capital. Instead of solving these numerous affairs, Mr. Mali will be promoted for the prize. Given the priorities he had as mayor of the capital, it is justified to ask what priorities he will have as minister, i.e. in what state he will leave public finances at the end of his term. We remember all the indelible scars he left on the capital's face, the largest already mentioned "Beograda on the water", as well as the night-roaring in the masks on Savala, when the legal order was suspended on one part of Serbia's territory, then the nakarad and unquality reconstructions of Slavi Square and Cvetni trg, as well as many other parts of the city, i.e. general concreteisation of Belgrade, needless and overpriced multi-monthly New Year's Lights, the new year's trees worth 83 thousand euros, not to mention "Er Serbia", which turned into a company providing low-cost airline services with high ticket prices, or apartments in Bulgaria. However, what is certainly the most resentful of the people in the middle who should be closest to him, and so do I, is the unexplained affair of plagiarizing a doctorate. This affair is exactly the opposite of which he got a scholarship to study in the United States, and especially with what's most important there, if not before, he should have learned, and that's academic honesty, as well as business ethics. One not so small part of me was long willing to trust him, until the remnants of that faith finally destroyed after the signing of the "Belgrade on Water" agreement, saying at a TV station that citizens who protested against this agreement had stopped trams in front of the Geo Institute. And all the citizens who were there, including me, were witnesses that the drivers of the GSP had been ordered to prevent trams from blocking the space between the Geo Institute to which officials and protesters were coming, in order to protect these first ones from looking at others. And then how can you trust him after such an obvious untruth? Now I would put aside the past and focus on the future, namely the new function of Mr. Little and his competence for this position. Although an economist by profession, he was also mayor, he has worked mostly on business, i.e. businesses, so far. In other words, he is not a macroeconist, nor has he too much experience in these affairs, unlike his predecessor Dusan Vujovic. It is clear to me why the proposer as his strong side points out that the mayor has improved the state of city finances, but the city's competences are still different from the republican level, which includes pensions and health and economic policy, etc., and he does not have enough experience in this. Mr. Mali, as so far, a lot of people have pointed out, above all, is an operative. Therefore, if there was an intention to be appointed minister, I am sure that much closer to him would be a resource of the economy, especially because of the fact that we still have a problem with enterprises in restructuring, and he certainly has experience in that. The very fact that he is understood as an operative indicates how much autonomy he will have in his work. Here is the question of what support academic economists can count on, given that, slightly speaking, the academic community is not popular because of the mentioned issue of doctorate. The key question that is being asked is – does Mr. Mali as Minister intend to change something from his predecessor? First of all, I think of his view of irrational subsidies to foreign investors, which often chokes the domestic economy, reducing tax burdens on domestic economy, restructuring of public enterprises, financing local self-government, developing the financial market, or the stock market. On these two last questions, Minister Vujovic has practically done nothing, and Mr Mali certainly has experience in this. I am also interested in – what is the opinion of the strong dinar, which is an additional burden for our export sector, while at the same time leading to so-called ". uncovered interest parity? In other words, due to a higher contribution to our charters than other European countries, the dinar should be weakened in order for the real contribution to be equated. However, the National Bank of Serbia keeps the value of the dinar, which allows investors, including those speculative types, to earn an excellent real contribution. I am particularly interested, given that the Prime Minister, and today, has done so, puts particular emphasis on the digitalisation process, with the most significant role of the IT sector, as a kind of universal remedy for all our problems, stressing that this is the key to development – are tax benefits planned for this sector? She was talking about something today. In fact, the rapid development of the domestic IT industry is not caused by a favourable environment, but rather by the low cost of our labour force on the world's IT market and the possibility that such a workforce is engaged indirectly by working from Serbia. The first and main obstacle to the further development of the IT sector is the continued trend of leaving the country by domestic IT experts. Therefore, there is a need for a new tax policy towards the IT sector which would lead to maximum relief for the education, production and development sector, the hardware sector and the electronic communications sector. Therefore, my message to the Prime Minister is that the government is the right, not digitisation, the key to development, that is, equal and fair conditions for all citizens. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is just another in a series of victims of the illusion that technical solutions can solve essential problems. To conclude, the nomination of Mr. Maloko is sent by just another one in a series of wrong signals to all those safe, valuable, professional and honest citizens that such behaviour in Serbia is not worth it and that, if given the opportunity, it is best for them to leave the country. Although I wish I were wrong and that Mr. Mali and the results of the entire government have denied me in the future, unfortunately, I will have to end the exposure to the words of our well-known writer and president of the SR of Yugoslavia Dobrica Cosic, who also bears great responsibility for the situation we are in today, which he said directly before the failed attempt to sign so-called. Vens-Oven's plan back in 1993 – my anxiety is deeper than my hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37344	Thank you. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37345	Thank you. I have two basic messages. First the Minister of Government. I am sorry that I have to say this to a national MP – it is not the prime minister of government and government, but it is being appointed by Members of Parliament and Parliament. So Serbia is a parliamentary democracy. If he were to appoint the president of the country, it would be a dictatorship. So Serbia is a parliamentary democracy. If he were to appoint the president of the country, it would be a dictatorship. I hope you don't stand for it and it's not your plan, and if it is, then you should certainly tell the citizens in a transparent manner that if you came to power, you would disband the Assembly, and the president would choose everything. So, I have no excuse to be the technocrat prime minister, that's a fact. I understand that you obviously have a problem with facts from your exposure. I understand that these are some flat-rate statements, flat-rate criticism, no numbers, no evidence, no data whatsoever, that you're giving, just, see, we have minimal economic growth, "Belgrade on water", pushing only profits into private investors' pockets, Er Serbia is a disaster, low-cost IT power is the basis of growth, without any data. That you have data, that you didn't hate to sit down and get ready and say – okay, my theory is that the low price of IT power is the basis of growth in Serbia, let me have the weekend ahead, let me look at the price of IT services, or IT people in Serbia, and what is it like? in Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Slovakia, Poland. Then we would see that IT services in Serbia are not competitive because they are cheap, but because they are high-quality, and that is one of the basic, basic indicators of our IT sector's strength. But I understand that it's easier to just say - IT in Serbia is cheap, that's why it's the basis of growth. Unfortunately, I think it's important that we talk on the basis of the facts. Such is the fact that I am the technocrat prime minister, which is not a newspaper in the world and is not a newspaper in Europe either, and that as a person who is neither a party member nor has a party behind him as such, it should rely on the parliamentary majority. I rely on the support of Alexander Vukic as president of the Republic and as president of the SNS, and above all, these people here, who give me support to my government as well. It's democracy, it's no excuse. I come back again, it's very difficult for me, like my second message to the citizens of Serbia, if sometimes I don't answer all the questions, it's very difficult for me to answer only the flat-rate claims, because I'm trying here, and I think you all see, and that all Serbian citizens know that I'm coming prepared in the assembly, with numbers, with facts. I find it difficult to answer when someone says – we have minimal economic growth and it is the smallest in the region. When's the smallest in the region? In the first quarter when it was 4.5% in 2018, was it then the smallest in the region? You say – okay, we have the smallest economic growth 2.8% in 2016. In the year, I'll remind you of the difficult fiscal consolidation measures. When you have savings, it's amazing that you have any economic growth at all, we have succeeded. the previous government, and that it has fiscal consolidation and that it has serious results in reducing deficits, and finally, achieving surpluses, but also that it has such, economic growth, 2.8%, is not such as economic growth, especially at a time when we have fiscal consolidation measures and when it is, when it is based on production, therefore, on productivity and exports. It is easy to have an economic growth of 4.5 when you only import and when you spend everything, such as the 2008 situation in 2007, when you came to 2012 and 2013, for three months from bankruptcy. It's easy. But this government of the Republic of Serbia and this majority in the Assembly, not resorting to easy measures, we resort to bold measures. But now I'm going to give you, for me, an amazing indicator of these flat-rate criticisms, for example. to economic growth. It was an economic race of 1.9% in 2017, and we first said - yes, it's very bad. The good thing about it is that there are indicators, and that's what the Fiscal Council said, again, as one really objective institution, is a good thing that it's obvious that all economic parameters show a good recovery of the Serbian economy. If this economic growth was because we had a very difficult winter and the first quarter of last year suffered from mining and because we had a very difficult summer, with droughts, which is why agriculture and the energy sector have now suffered due to poor hydrology, and if there were no weather opportunities, economic growth would have been within the frameworks of planned, planned, which is 3% in 2017. That's when everyone said, "Here's the MP who's got the same head, that's when they said it all, whatever that nonsense is, here's another excuse, it wouldn't be 1.9%, and what you've done, and that's that." When we said, people, you see citizens, fantastic, economic growth in the first quarter 4.5%, an amazing thing, a great thing for the Serbian economy. Suddenly, what all critics say -- uh, it's some economic growth, so if you hadn't had such a bad economic growth, or the first quarter of last year, if it hadn't been for the dry and cold winter, you'd have 3%, so this 3% plus 1.5%, and now 3% was last year's growth. So whatever you're saying, it was this other thing, just so you have bad results. We're not looking forward to bad results. We also admit the bad results and watch what we need to change to make them better, which is why the growth of 4.5%, but well, it is the lowest in the region as the MP says. "Belgrade on Water" will be taken as an example, profit goes into private investors' pockets. And in fact, you know why infrastructure projects are so important in every country, especially housing projects, for two reasons. The first is because they are in the best way pulling back the growth of the construction sector, which just happened for the "Belgrade on Water" projects. Finally, our building began to grow again. One of the proofs of that, again, I have tried to prepare myself out of respect for the MPs and this home, one of the proof of that is that the second largest component of our external trade deficit growth, and since the external trade deficit is growing, we have watched, but it is not a good indicator, we have seen why, as a government, we would immediately have measures to bring it back under that balance and we have a surplus, but in addition to having an increase in the import of propulsion machines, thanks to enormous growth, and above all to foreign direct investments, the other is the import of construction services, because we do not have enough construction or design companies to monitor such a large project. It's one of the basic benefits of this project. The housing, the second most important economic indicator of why it's important, is my people, the property tax. The property tax that own income from local self-government, which is a sustainable income, is one of the most important local self-government. Well, they don't want a property tax to carry a private investor. The property tax will remain in Belgrade forever and ever. It is the most important revenue of this project and again, which is why this project is important and needs these projects to have as many local self-government as possible. "Er Serbia," again we had a flat-rate claim, now just from what you've read I've been trying to pull out some of the things, "Er Serbia" disaster, becomes a lou bone company, "Er Serbia" disaster service, as if someone beats citizens in the ears to ride "Er Serbia" and buy tickets to "Er Serbia". So we have an increase in the number of passengers from 90% in 2017 compared to 2013. Well, how is it that citizens are not "Er Serbia" good now? It's one of the cobwebs again. Why didn't you look at the data? If you had looked at the data, you would have written yourself into the preparation – "Er Serbia" disaster, look at the data, the increase of the number of passengers 90%; ups, let me not say such things in the National Assembly, it's not right. For not the price of IT services, I've already said, I'm not going to say it again. So, here, I beg you, take a look, bring me the data, so if I'm wrong, here, I apologize, you're right. No, IT services in Serbia are growing because of quality, not because they are cheap. I've heard a lot about your biography, which I'm particularly pleased with. I don't know if you're recommending a seat in the government of the Republic of Serbia? I'm glad you're a Rond Brown Fulbright student and brought that to Serbia. It's certainly nice. As for the Ph.D. of Cynthia Malloy, if I'm not mistaken, but, behold, you correct me, the Commission has already confirmed twice, most of the votes, that the Ph.D. is Synchille Little authentic, that it is not prescribed or plagiarized. Twice? Twice was not enough, so the University of Belgrade for the third time educates the Commission to review all the facts. The Faculty of Organizational Sciences also confirmed that it was an authentic academic act, but it doesn't matter, and I think you're right. This should be pushed, and it doesn't matter, if you need a hundred commissions, a hundred commissions, until we get to the one that will prove you're right, not these previous 99. I think it's the rule of law in Serbia. It's the rule of law in your performance. Here, when something's illegal, it's a bagger, when something's illegal, you perform a treasure, it's not the rule of law again. It can't do that. So there are principles. The rule of law cannot change from day to day how you think something is good or something bad. The rule of law is a rule of law and this government of the Republic of Serbia respects it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37346	Thank you. The word has Jovan Jovanovic, two minutes, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37347	Thank you very much. I don't understand why the Prime Minister is so nervous if these results are so good? I think that in the flat-rate statements, first of all, she and the representatives of the government and they have the most problems with the facts. As for preparations for the meeting, it should always be noted that these sessions are being convened, that a request for Monday morning came on Friday afternoon. That should be in mind. The MPs, of course, have prepared themselves, but there is no need to bury the citizens here with a bunch of information that I certainly possess. As for the twisting of words, I called on Mr. Dragan Markovic, who said the president was determining ministers. We didn't say he was setting it up. We said he'd figure out who he was going to be. Of course, the National Assembly votes those ministers, so I would pray that they do not twist my words in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37348	Thank you. The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37349	Just one sentence. So, when you tell me you don't have to bother citizens with over-information and data, I assume you're saying I shouldn't be getting ready for the Assembly this well? Secondly, don't underestimate Serbian citizens. They absolutely want to know both information and data and know how to interpret them, which shows results in the 2013 elections here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37350	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37351	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we today or tomorrow, as time goes by, should decide whether Mr. Sinisha Mali will sit in the chair of the finance minister. It is a chair in which the times were Costa Cukic or Lazar Pac. Kosta Cukic was in his 19th century a man who consolidated Serbia's finances, who launched a dinar, which abolished the greens or one Laza Pacu who was known for its savings and who, behold, had a special ink that he wrote to state letters, state ink and his own personal ink that he wrote his own personal letters. Today we heard a whole series of eulogy, or praise, first of all, from Madam Prime Minister and we heard a lot about Mr. Cynthia Malo's biography, which mostly looks like it all starts from his engagement as mayor of Belgrade. Of course, I'm not going to deal with Belgrade right now because that's the thing we need to leave behind. It's a city hall thing. We have other things to do here, and that's Mr. Sinisha Mali as a humane solution, because we didn't discuss here, nor do we seem to be discussing some proposed financial concept, but rather a person, or a humane solution. Let's get back to the bio. It is very interesting that, Mrs. Brnabic, you forgot or overlooked to say that Mr. Sinisa Mali worked in 2001 to 2003 as an assistant minister for privatisation and that he was director of the Centre for tender-auction privatisation. So it's something that our colleagues from the SNS for that period, and for all people who were active and perform functions, have very big objections, whether it's privatisations, and Mr. Sinisha Mali was their winemaker, whether it's socializing or tycoons, which also applies to Mr. Mali, and to one great fortune, which also applies to Mr. Sinisha Mali. Mrs. Brnabić said in her recommendations to Mr. Malia that he has great experience in the economy. Here, let's say, this is one of the experiences, what I said, that function between 2001 and 2003, which in no way in your ranks could qualify for this place. On the other hand, it is at that time that Mr. Malo's financial rise, which then becomes the director of various short companies. Four of the short companies founded by Trident Trust Company Limited are mentioned. It's a company that registers of short companies and that agency hides about owners, but doesn't hide a secret about directors. We know that Mr. Sinisha Mali was the director of all these companies and that they all seemed like a short company. So, I have a problem with the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Serbia being a man who worked from the Shore and who worked as a director of the Shore Company. These are companies that don't pay taxes to the state of Serbia here. Not to say that this being in the shortest companies was followed by a series of affairs, so we also have this famous 24 apartment affair in Bulgaria, at St. Nicholas's resort, of which Mr. Mali bought one apartment for himself, and 23 apartments bought on behalf and for the company's account. This cost about 5m euros, and Mr. Mali, when he bought those apartments in 2014 and 2013, was already Mr. Vukic's financial adviser, who was then the first Deputy Prime Minister. As for these other companies, we also have Alession Investment LTD, which was founded in 2007, and has also hired it through the agency's engagement "Tradent Trest Company". The director of this company was Mrs. Maria Mali, whose testimony we had enough to listen to in the media. But this company was also connected to another malfeasance I'm going to talk about later, and there's one man who got, I think, some parole. I'd just say about this 24 apartment if Mr. Mali had forgotten or avoided reporting that he bought these apartments. He did not report it to the privatisation agency of the Republic of Serbia. So I'm not talking about what the tabloid says or what it says, "Krick," I'm talking about the Agency for the Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is the institution of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, I would also mention the Bulgarian financial intelligence service, or agency, which is listed in the report by the Republika Srpska Agency itself. Our Agency says it has received a notice from the Bulgarian Financial Intelligence Service that a large number of transactions related to the purchase of apartments in Bulgaria are suspicious, as it is, I quote, of "insured payments or cash inflows in large amounts in a short period of time and without some clear logic". Mr. Mali said these signatures were not his signatures, that he would substrate the evidence, however, we did not get any evidence of this until today, and was denied by the Bulgarian business register that said his signatures were valid. Next, we are coming to the next affair, which is the "Savavala" affair. In fact, on the night between 24th and 25th April 2016, the masked faces with phantoms destroyed the wider centre of Belgrade on Herzegovica Street, and Mrs. Mali then said that her husband then boasted about it, that he had just declared that he had broken something there, that he had done nothing terrible, that no one had been killed, but that he had done so. Of course, I have to remind the MPs and our citizens here that even then the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, and today's President of the Republic, said that behind the collapse in Savamala stands the very top of the city government, and he also called these destroyers complete idiots. That's not what I said, that's what Mr. Wolfie said, and I'm really just quoting him on this occasion. The next affair is the abduction of 10 hectares of the country. Namely, the Belgrade mayor and his family's firm illegally took 10 hectares of the state country near Vrsac. This country was used by the state-owned company Alpha Protein and businessman Srdjan Gajic privatised the company at a time when Sinisa Mali worked at the Privatisation Agency, and soon this state land was illegally donated to the private company "Compost Group" owned by Sinisa Mali and his father, Borislav Mali. According to court records, the country was never paid, and the mayor started compost production. Gajic, who was involved, was sentenced in February 2015 to two years of probation until an investigation against members of the Mali family was never conducted. After "Krik" published this story in October 2015, however, the court procedure that the state is trying to regain ownership of the country was continued after six years of interruption, it stands. He's standing in the D.A.'s office, and this is about 24 apartments, and he's still being questioned, so I don't say he's getting sour. The further affair is suspected of money laundering, or half a million euros. In fact, Sinisa Mali sold his firm "Ferdi Genetics" for half a million euros of Shore to Alesia Investment, which I mentioned. That was in 2009. At the moment of the sale, the director and owner of the brother-in-law company was also him. So, he sold himself the company, and there were 525,000 euros, which was the bank through which the transaction went as a suspicion of money laundering, and it was reported to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The agency accepted it as an illicit store. It's also a case that's being checked in the D.A.'s office. Mr. Mali has 45 bank accounts, 17 are on his behalf, 21 is on behalf of his wife and underage children, and three accounts are on behalf of other people. It is Mr. Vukevic, a businessman, not the one from "Informer" and it is Mr. Urosevic, architect and third name now I can't remember. Mostly, Mrs. Mali transferred 150,000 euros from those accounts, which was marked somewhere by the Corruption Agency as 95,000 euros more than she could have earned. I, of course, about the tree, about the fountain, about everything else that's happened, about lighting up, I won't talk, because I'm saying, it's not a topic for here, it's a topic that should be treated in the Belgrade Assembly. Of course, I must mention Mr. Little's plagiarized doctorate as a member of the academic community. It's not exactly like Mrs. Brnabic brought out. Namely, the FON refused to audit the doctorate and a commission was made. The commission could not meet because all members of the commission resigned. By the way, Professor Raša Karapanja concluded in the author's text for "The Sandstone" that Mali plagiarized the doctorate and prescribed at least 33% of the text. He responded and reacted by academician Dusan Teodorovic, who is the head of the University of Belgrade, addressed the letter and sent evidence to nearly 20 pages, which he said support claims that the work of Sinishi is a small plagiarism. The University of Belgrade Senate then asked the FON to form an expert commission to analyse the mayor's doctorate in early April of last year. That analysis was delayed, because like I said, all the members resigned. I would also say about the plagiarization that the parts of that doctorate, that Mr. Mali intended to publish parts of that doctorate in the magazine "Organization and Management", and Mr. Simon Caifert withdrew the text with the claim that the text was copied from Stifanos Hailemariam. So, I won't be long. But these are really serious affairs, and I'd like to hear the answers, but they don't answer that guy -- and what you've been doing, and what every one of us here is doing is in opposition or in opposition, and they're not here in this assembly meeting. The moment these people or any of us are elected to any place in the government, then we'll be the subject. Now the theme is Sinisha Mali. I really expect us to talk about this and talk about Sinisha Mali as a human solution, not some other people. I note that these are serious accusations, that they are not only concerned with the media, that we have anti-corruption agencies, Serbian agencies, Bulgarian agencies, and that I am asking the MPs to think carefully, because by voting for Mr. Malogi, who, in my opinion, if these affairs are unresolved, he has no dignity to sit on the chair, in the main, most important place, the Prime Minister, in addition to the Prime Minister, the finance minister. That's what the people would tell you to give a hungry wolf to guard. I don't think Serbia deserved it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37352	Thank you. The right to replication, mentioning the party, authorised representative of SNS MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37353	Thank you, Chairman. Well, we're not going to let, Mr. Chairman, get Mr. Sinisha's little party today for the sake of those who want to make cheap political points and then justify all that money they took from the tycoon from different parts of the world, which are otherwise taken and arrested yesterday. There's Mr. Patricia Ho from Hong Hong, Senegal Sheik Gadio and China, Mr. Jin Jan Ming. Thus, eightm euros should be justified for the presidential campaign and justify all those affairs that were produced on the basis of these pairs, and the greatest burden should be suffered by Sinisa Mali, and we simply will not allow it today, because at no time was it discussed the choice of the finance minister and the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37354	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37355	The truth is, I didn't talk about it, and I said at the beginning of my presentation that I wouldn't talk at this point about the biography of Cynthia Little, that I would talk more about what I think and what made me as Prime Minister, what were the most important results of Cynthia Little that recommended him for a place or for my proposal in the National Assembly to be Minister of Finance. In addition, of course, all the MPs received a biography of Synchronism, so it was not particularly necessary for me to spend both your time and your time on it. In the biography of Sinisha Malagi, it was completely transparently placed that he was appointed as a Privatisation Minister at the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation in 2001. It's important, I think, to mention, and you should have said that, if you want to be fair, that it was in that place by March 2003 and that there was no controversial privatisation in that process, and that I think you know better than me, which is that by March 2003, and there were no controversial privatisations, that there was a problem with privatisation, mixing, mugging, leaving people out of work, selling in vain to get out of the machines, like today we have companies sold into debauchery less than those machines were worth, that machines were taken out and put in Turkey, so we now have from those machines that were our imports from Turkey. These are some things that Sinisha Mali did not participate in, but was part of a government where then your party was one of the headquarters of that government. So it's just not fair and should be said when he was set up in 2001 until he was there and when he left. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia know when the most problematic privatisations were made and that is why none of you speak ever since Sinisa Mali was at the Privatisation Agency. Sinisha Mali has experience in the economy and has an international experience. He also worked as a consultant at "Deloitte" both in Belgrade and Prague. He worked for a renowned international company, Credit Swiss, in New York. What Sinisha was doing in the private sector with other private firms has nothing to do with any state or public institutions. In 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, it's pointless to talk, because the man was in the private sector and he was doing his job for which he studied, which he mastered, who then doctored and it's absolutely pointless to talk about what the man was doing in the private sector. It has nothing to do with the state, nor does it as today's candidate for finance. Did he run the Shore firm? Yeah. Is that illegal? So, the man worked both in Prague and New York and in some other cities of the world and there are short companies, they are legal in these countries, they are legal in the Republic of Serbia. In 2009, I don't know why you wouldn't do it as a man in the private sector who does it and it's his job. What is more important to me than that 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, and what, for me, I think it also recommends for this position, what is more important to me is that a man with such qualifications and with such education has returned to Serbia and made himself available to the state of Serbia. That's what's important to me from those years, not whether he had or ran a brother-in-law firm. As for the doctorate, again, as in the case of privatisation, we all say – e, he was at the Privatisation Agency, we don't say from when to when or whether he had successful privatisations or not had successful privatisations. Again, because it would be facts and because the facts are not in favor of you and then we're not in fact dealing with it, but we're dealing with the flat-rate claims. So we focus on the doctorate, so we don't focus on having Sinisha Mali and graduated and mastered not the Faculty of Economics of the University of Belgrade, if he had won the award as the best student of the generation, that after that he had won the prize for best student work, because that story, that truth wouldn't fit into that story that you want to tell about Sinisha Malo, so let's choose what we're going to talk about, to make a good story that the truth cannot get in the way. Sinisha Mali later, in 1999, as a scholarshipist, Rond Brown Fulbright mastered Washington University in St. Louis, U.S.A., in the direction of finance. He worked during his studies as an assistant for five cases in the area of business finance and received the award as the best student in the field of finance and the award that he was among 10% of the top 20 business schools in the United States that year. You don't talk much about it because it doesn't fit the story you want to tell about Sinisha Mal. Why would Sinisa Mali, as the best student of the University of Belgrade Faculty of Economics, as a man who has two masters of diplomas, one from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Economics, again for which he received the award for best graduate work and as a man who also in the United States as a Rond Brown student received a prize for the best student in the field of finance, come to Serbia and to FON plagiarise his doctorate? Well, you wouldn't. When twice the commission says -- it hasn't plagiarized, you say -- it doesn't matter what Rasha Karapanja says about "Sandstone". Is that the ultimate authority -- not the University of Belgrade Commission, not the FON, but what did Rasha Karapnja say about "the Sandman"? Okay, okay. The University of Belgrade is now educationing for the third time a commission that will review all the facts. If that third commission says what the previous two commissions said, I assume you'll be looking for a fourth commission. Sinisa Mali also received the title Chartered Financial Analyst, i.e. CFA, as the first Serb in 2003. Which in the financial world really means a lot, but it wasn't important enough from his biography to talk about it today either. Twenty-four apartments, one of the funniest affairs, even for me in the mandate of Cynthia the Little as mayor. So we had proof that his signature was falsified not by Serbian graphologists, but by Bulgarian graphologists. But it doesn't matter. The proof that all these documents are falsified can't ruin the good story you've come up with. I think the truth is important. What happened to those 24 apartments? I think Serbian citizens ask – man, if Sinisha Mali had 24 apartments - what happened to them, are they still at Cynthia Mali's? Did he sell them like Sinisha Mali? What if he had and had no company that he left before entering the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Say, we have one logical question – what is it, is there still 24 apartments, or do you accept that these are the apartments of a company that was involved in this business, and that this company Sinisha Mali left before entering the government of the Republic of Serbia then as an adviser to the prime minister. Radoslav Milojic throws it away. Savamala... No, the esteemed MP you throw away, I know that in your system of mandates this and the previous government is all to blame until proven innocent, and that in your system everyone is forever and ever, including you who really don't have a lot of right to talk about the budget and finances of local self-government. Radoslav Milojic throws it away. And I know it's your custom to talk about family and my and Cynthia the Little. That's not my manners. I won't talk about families because I don't run a tabloid policy unlike you... (Radoslav Milojic: I didn't mention the small one. I am yours. ) I am proud of it, it is obviously appreciated by citizens, and it is another power of Serbia today. You guys keep doing the tabloid stuff. (Radoslav Milojic: Your brother is 13 times... I am your brother. So, I'm not going to talk about the statements of the wife of Cynthia Little, the ex-wife of Cynthia Little, because I think it's also... Radoslav Milojic throws it away. ) (President: Comrade, please be quiet, allow the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to address the MPs. Please be quiet. He's not talking to you, please don't have a dialogue like this, please. Radoslav Milojic: You said I mentioned it. ) Again, I think it is not fair to call on any statements from the former wife, not to refer to the same ex-wife's official statements with the prosecutor. I think what the ex-wife said about some press portal and what she said to the prosecutor, that the greater power should have her official statement in the prosecutor's office, but the portal, and you didn't say that she was just trying to hurt her ex-husband again, because it doesn't fit the story. It doesn't fit the story you want to tell, so let's leave out the truth because it's gonna spoil our good story. We will continue, of course, to discuss the biography and affairs of Sinishi Mali, but I want to tell you that it is safe, and trees and everything else, that I have tried once again as best to prepare myself for the Serbian Parliament and that I have the data and that we should try to talk about facts, rather than the flat-rate claims, because then this debate will take a lot, much longer because I will answer you to every case of facts, numbers and clear data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37356	Thank you. Would you like a replica of your colleague? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Prime Minister, I must tell you that you have not assured me of your multi-minute response, which has come down to some justification and some kind of attack on us, or me specifically, which has raised certain questions here. First of all, I have to say, I was actually overjoyed when I heard you say it was none of your business what Mr. Sinisha Mali was doing while he was in the private sector. You are the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. You're proposing a finance minister. I think that story -- so what everyone has of the Shore Company, they're working with the Shore Company, it's not a sin. No, it's not a crime, but putting a man who exclusively worked with a brother-in-law at the office of the finance minister, and over here we're getting ready to sell this poor guy and the poor people who sell on cardboard boxes of underwear and some carrots we're chasing, on the other hand he's going to be the one who's going to chase them, and on the other hand, the shorts of the company are just fine. What I'd like to say to you is that I referred to what Mrs. Maria Mali said not as an ex-wife but as a Malian citizen who spoke of a Serbian official.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37358	The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37359	I just want to say because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it is of course very important to me what someone has done in his life and what is his experience. What was someone doing in the private sector? As long as he worked in accordance with the law, he worked in Sinisha Mali according to all the laws. I can't, and I don't want to get into grades whether I think it's moral or not, do I think the business of a brother-in-law is moral, illegal? Do you know how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia today who work or lead a short company because they are smart, educated, qualified and because someone from America, Luxembourg, with Malta hired them to run their companies? Are you saying that all these people are immoral? That all these people tomorrow, in five, six years, can't have any state function? Then suggest as a Assembly that we condemn them all or give them a clear message, so that we tell these young people - you move out of Serbia, because if you work for an offshore company some you can't live in Serbia because you're a criminal. So you send one dangerous message to all young people who are currently planning their careers and doing everything they can to continue their careers, to grow up and have good wages to provide their families. So it's important to me what someone did, but as long as he worked in accordance with the laws, then it's a private sector and that private sector of the state has no right to touch and cannot influence him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37360	Thank you. My colleague Rističević, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Wait a minute, I'm going to have to delete the list of registered Members of Parliament in order to allow you to speak on behalf of the Rules of Procedure. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37361	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, you have allowed the previous speaker, MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić, to harshly insult not Sinisha Mali, but all the people who work in the private sector. So, the one that's not in the real sector, in the economy, agriculture, industry, never made a white dinar, the one that only made money from the budget, and the budget is filled with business, she resents someone who works in the white world with offshore companies. In doing so, she forgot not only that of the refugees, while she shared good and evil with her colleague Micunovic, and mostly well, she took 500,000 dinars and now they had to. She forgot that at the time of Kostunica, who also had a team, not this offshore, but other offshore companies sold almost a complete Serbian economy. She forgot that "Delta" registered in Cyprus forgot where Beko registered his firms. She didn't mind that for a 10-time lower price, the Serbian economy was sold, but she remembered some privatisations in which almost nothing was sold. She mostly got money from the budget. She didn't go to Crimea. She, the right hand of the Wolf of the descendent of Jeremiah, did not enter Crimea, she entered Rome, because in Rome they are very easy to hunt these expensive pumpkins, etc. That is why, Mr. Chairman, I object that you have allowed the lady, in a rough way, to insult all those who work in the real sector, because they are the full budget of the Republic of Serbia, of which we all live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37362	I thank my colleague Rističević. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm going to have to delete the list again to allow you to report back. Sign up, please, colleague Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37363	The Honorable Chairman, well, here is to once delete the list and because of us from the opposition, not just because of Marijan Risticevic. Otherwise, a fellow chairman, Article 108(1) was injured. – on the agenda of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, i.e. you, because any notification by the injured Rules of Procedure by Marijan Rističević is an injury to the Rules of Procedure, so I recommend you pay attention to that. Now I can explain in this case what it looked like. So here, one of the opposition's MPs was quite normal, parliamentaryly and democratically speaking about a candidate for finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. You then allowed a ruling majority MP to talk about the opposition's MP, who spoke about the finance minister's candidate, through a false form of injury to the Rules of Procedure, and to insult, in practice, how many hundreds of thousands of people who work in the state sector, in the public sector of the Serbian state, including Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who never did anything but on the state salary. So, you let the president of Serbia and all the other public sector employees, sort of a tirad of a false, people's MP, who is otherwise personally involved in a number of criminal affairs, and not to say what is not and should not report in the word at all if some moral dignity and some moral character were to rule in the National Assembly. So, please, the next time Marijan Risticevic calls, you should immediately pay attention to reporting that he would violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and call the opposition, because it is his task, and therefore he is not wearing a pair, but his wife.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37364	Comrade Obradovic, please do not use the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in the future and do not address the MPs directly. I have great respect for Article 108(1), and I take care of the order at the National Assembly session. I cannot influence what the MPs will talk about, and there are no double arches and double standards, and I will repeat that to you by who knows which time, and that is exactly what has been confirmed. I've made it possible for you in two minutes that I've allowed you to point out the views that you consider to be out of line with the Rules of Procedure. One more thing, colleague Obradovic. Do not insult the dignity of the National Assembly by saying that it is necessary to prevent the MPs from speaking. It is up to me to allow MPs to speak when it is allowed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I certainly do. Accordingly, I did not in any way violate Article 108(1). I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37365	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 103, 109 and 27. Mr. Chairman, you've had to draw attention, I respect your tolerance, Mr. Bosko Obradovic, not to present details from the lives of private persons. My wife doesn't wear a toenail. He could check it out, it was recently at the Russian embassy, so he could see it. That's the first lie he's told, saying I'm a lie or a false MP. Unlike him, I am a true MP. He said I insulted all those in the public sector. That's not true. I said we live off the real sector. So that's not an insult. We take money from the economy, so somebody's got to make money. I have to respect those who earn that money, and I have to respect those who get that money. They don't do it, I do it. So, the person who never earned anything had an objection in the way that the candidate for the finance minister earned it. I'm still standing by my every word. If we talk about women, it'll be very embarrassing for Bosko Obradovic and I don't want it, respecting his wife and his family, but I have to say that one of the public sectors that has been supported by the Chačan library has come back. Imagine this job, which Mr. Velja Ilic, in his own time and Kostunica invented, which is why he also joined the defence of the former MP, former Ambassador of Kostunica and Velje Ilic, so imagine when he gave the Chačan library stories about real money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37366	Col. Rističević, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37367	And member 104, Mr. Chairman, besides members already indicated, I am primarily referring to article 103, since what Bosko Obradovic did was an obvious abuse of the right to replication. He's reported to condemn it, in fact, he did. The obvious abuse of the right to replica, which is evident from the content of what he said himself. He felt, I believe, personally, affected by the previous discussion of the moment he rose to the protection of the public sector. He's right, colleague Risticevic, he felt personally affected. So he defended people who receive salaries exclusively from the budget, not just themselves, but everyone who is in his environment. It's common knowledge. I think here every day he talks about this public sector in the spirit of how only people who are SNS or their members work there. Is he trying to avoid accusing himself and his environment that then they're some members of the SNS, I'm not going into it. The second is again the personal interest of Mr. Bosko Obradovic. He's been reading the paper these days, I guess. He read the newspaper, so he'd like to get a little closer to that statement that was already being made by Mr. Patrick Ho, Sheik Tidian Gadio, Emilio Lozoya, another gentleman, Mr. Djan Ming, so all of you know the business and politics that Vuk Tadic and his firm donated to those famous millions of people all over Serbia. Someone now seems to like to get close enough to those millions, so he reported here to defend the representative of Vuk Tadic's Jeremic. If that's the case, I'm talking to you, Mr. Chairman, telling you the practice so far. When did you see Bosko Obradovic reporting to stand up for someone? Never, never for anyone. It's only now that this story of these millions has come up, or maybe she's saying he's decided to go back to the old flock, of course, I'm thinking of Mr. Gilas. He can be as fascinated with Alexander Vukic as he likes to be, he'll never get his wish to be Alexander Vukic. In a society like that, it can only be, it can check for what. Let him go with Jeremic and the others to visit these gentlemen with whom they are now, he will see with his own eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37368	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I see that several MPs have come forward to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. A little while ago, someone pointed to Article 108(1) that the chairman of the National Assembly of Order, which I am about to do. I will not allow the session to continue in this direction and in this direction. I'll insist we get back to the agenda. That's why, according to article 112, I'm giving a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37370	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support your proposal to elect Sinisha Mali as finance minister. His previous engagement has fully qualified him for this extremely important function, and I am absolutely sure that he will carry it out successfully. When I say that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia supports your proposal, I want to stress that we support this government's policy, we participate in this government as a coalition partner. It is this fact that we are also making a contribution to the realisation of this government's policy. I'd like to highlight a few results that have been achieved. Since 2014, when reforms started, truly impressive results have been achieved in some areas. First of all, I'm talking about financial consolidation. As you know, Serbia was close to bankruptcy in 2014. It only took 75 days for the state to declare bankruptcy. With a smart policy of financial consolidation, which was neither easy nor simple, we managed to get into a situation that last year we had a surplus, and in this year we expect a surplus. Also, in this year we have defined 128 billion funds that we have made for capital investments, which is very visible, it is seen in the fact that this government is going to end Corridor 10. I keep stressing that, yes, this government will end Corridor 10, and not the eastern leg, the southern leg. Also, this government will end up part of Corridor 11 to Cacq. These are great results, that should be noted. This should be noted by the fact that many have tried to do so and have not done so. This government will do it. That nothing else does this government, I think it's a very big result. This should be constantly emphasized because it seems that we are forgetting these facts, we are doing some other things a long way, and what remains for the future, for future generations, we do not want to point out. When you were elected prime minister, I said two things, first, that this is the government of continuity, that continuity feels. This government is the government of stability. Serbia is a stable country in every way. We're growing GDP, we're seeing it, we've been feeling it for the second year, and that's what's most important this time. You know, you don't have a country and you can't do much work if your GDP doesn't grow. I think the measures the government has achieved we have GDP growth. I must stress that the future finance minister will not be easy. It won't be easy for him because he comes to the scene of a former Minister Dusan Vujovic, who, as a member of the government, has done much as part of a team. We had budgets that were stable, budgets that weren't hiding anything. Let me point out, and I've been a MP for a long time, there were a lot of budgets under the lines, below the lines, and it was always when we got the budget something jumped out. No, we now have a clear, transparent budget, well composed and I hope that future minister will continue the work as Dusan Vujovic did, it is very important. This is very important, the citizens of Serbia must know that this time only what was created is spent, what was earned. That means no more borrowing, and we're just going to be so very responsible and behavior will be in the future. Because that's exactly what Serbia needs to lead forward, so we don't have any surprises. Madam Prime Minister, I'm going to use one fact to point out. First, we welcome the suspension of the Interim Pension Reduction Act. This was insisted by Mr Momo Colakovic when we adopted the 2018 budget, you will do it and it is very good. Also, we welcome the fact that he takes care of the smallest pensions. Why? We know that pensions were acquired right, that people were singled out of their incomes so they could have pensions and live in their old age. However, we need to know that the budget funds, that the pension funds were indeed devastated. And we set one very big goal for now from the pension budget to go 30 percent, and it went 50 percent, that's a sign that one side that we have more employees, but that's a sign that the PIO fund is doing well and it's doing a good economy. I expect that we will discuss pension funds reform in this and next year. Why? We're a country that's old, we've got a lot of old people, and these generations won't be able to support themselves, you know, pensions are paid off by those who are employed to pay off the PIO fund and pensions are paid out of it. Most importantly, pensions are safe, pensions are paid regularly, and salaries and therefore we will welcome all those decisions that will mean increased wages and pensions, but from real funds. Not borrowing, not cheap populist policy to buy something, but as a serious state, as a country where we know what we want, we need to have a situation of security and stability in our finances. Of course, I know for sure that the government is one team, the finance minister is part of that team, and as far as I can tell from school, Mr. Sinisha Mali has just been on finance and mastered and that's what I need to stress this time. Finally, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of your proposal and we will continue to support this government-led policy, we will participate in it and we will contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37371	Thank you, colleague Miatovic. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37372	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at today's session, we are considering a proposal from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to elect Sinisha Mali as Finance Minister as a member of the government and government. In addition to the proposal, we received a biography from which I would briefly draw some baselines, that he was mayor from 2014 to today, that he launched a financial consolidation programme in order to achieve sustainable fiscal stabilisation, that he cut Belgrade's debt and budget deficit down to a quarter, that he increased Belgrade's credit rating, that he launched large investment projects, which should especially point out "Belgrade on water", that unemployment was reduced in historical name, that he launched a new investment cycle on significant, business, infrastructure projects. Data from his career have been provided that he worked in New York by 2000, that since 2001 he has been appointed as a Privatisation Minister of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. That he was the director of the Centre for Competition Privatisation at the Privatisation Agency, that he was a financial adviser in the private sector and consultant Deloitte & Touche in Belgrade and Prague, that he was a special adviser to the economy and finance of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. The education provided data that he graduated and mastered the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade and that he doctored at the FON on the topic "Creation of Values through the process of restructuring and privatisation of the theoretical concept and results achieved in Serbia". Its references, of which is the bearer of significant knowledge, were provided by its authors, that he was the licensee of the portfolio manager, that he was president and member of several boards such as "Fiat", "The Commercial Bank", the Clinical Centre of Serbia and that he is currently chairman of the Supervisory Board "Er Serbia". I have repeated all this even though the Prime Minister has already stated this in her opening statement, in order to strengthen the intensity that it represents an impressive reference, but I am asking whether it has all been written in it. I have the impression that the data was given in that biography selectively written. We need to see what it is that we think is missing in the biography. You should really wonder if Mr. Mali really brought Belgrade in line. You should ask the Belgraders to look, say, in their wallets, so they tell us if they lived better or worse for these four years. Well, let's ask them what happens when they go to health homes, and then they have to buy a hanzaplast when they go to the doctor. Let's look in the face and ask if they're clean or dirty. Let's see why GSPs leave their drivers every day because of difficult working conditions and low wages. Let's see why half of Belgrade doesn't have sewers and why we're the only big city in Europe where sewers flow into rivers. That's what we think these savings have been done and this is how Belgrade was done despite the impressive data mentioned in the biography. It should also be noted that we have a lot of information that the public is filled with information that the character and the work of Sinisha Mali has been burdened with very difficult affairs for 15 years. I do not want to make claims here but I want you, Prime Minister, to ask, is it true, one, that in the 2003 Beopetrol affair while Sinisha Mali was at the Privatisation Agency, and the Council for the Combating Corruption considered that privatisation as controversial. You said for a moment that there were no controversial privatisations while Sinisha Mali was at the Privatisation Agency. Two, I'm only going to mention what the current debaters didn't state. Is there any doubt in the "Brothership" affair that Sinisa Mali, then official privatisation agency, helped her father buy the car manufacturers "Brothership". Is that true or not? Then, is what is mentioned in the "Alpha Protein" affair true that Mr. Sinisa Mali participated and is it true that the Mali family's private company currently owns those ten hectares of "Alpha Protein" from Vrsac? Under four, is it true that Sinisa Mali participated in a half-million-euro washing affair by selling one of his companies to his other firm? If that's true, it's a very difficult form of manipulation, with financial resources. Then it was true that it was made in 2008, buying Mercedes through his offshore company. Is it true that Sinisha Mali pumps up at the expense of his wife 95,000 euros. Is it true that apartments were purchased in the Kopalnik and Oasis? This collapse in “Savamali” was mentioned, and I'm just asking if it's true or not. Tell not to me, but to the public and to the citizens of Serbia. Under nine -- it's mentioned, it may be misinformation, and it may be affecting Mr. Malloy's private life, but the fact is that we had information that there were major custody problems over Mr. Malloy's children, where there was a high degree of aggression in private life. Why are you looking at me like that? Because in organized states, people who deal with such things can't get to the big ones, I ask if it's true? You say it's not true. Then, is it true that the scholarships for children, listed at $60,000 a month, and that Mr. Sinisa Mali in court said they were funds donated to him by his friends outside Serbia? Is it true that he had co-operation with Stanko Subotic? Is it true that he helped Miroslav Bogicevic by putting pressure on the National Investment Plan and on certain state banks? I wonder if it's true, I don't ask anything else? Then, is it true, or is it not, we heard a lot of discussion about these 24 apartments, which are the continuation of the 2003 Beopetrol affair, and this happened in 2012, is it true that Sinisha Mali participated in it or not? Just tell me, nothing more. Then, is it true that Sinisha Mali was largely involved in the promotion of a GTC construction company, in which even one of his companies has 1% participation? Is it true that he was involved in the New Year's lighting affair? Right, or isn't it? And is it true that Sinisha Mali plagiarized a doctorate or not? In the end, I'd like to say that the DJB has filed a criminal charges against Cynthia Malloy in due to pressure on the Fund for Development and the State Bank precisely because of some of these affairs that have been filed. What do you say after all this? If you remember when your government was established, the members of the DJB reacted very strongly to the biographies of your associates, or your ministers. We've expressed our skepticism that certain biographies of your associates don't meet the demands that are being made before them. The period from that moment to this day has shown that many ministers cannot meet the needs of the work functions they are assigned to. That's why we're asking the question -- if it's at least one of these 15-16 affairs, only one if it's true, then Mr. Mali, can't meet the criteria of being a finance minister. Then, I ask the question, as a man who comes from RTB Bor, who has done damage to the state of Serbia for two billion dollars in the last two years, just because RTB Bor is headed by a non-competent camera capable of running the company properly, because I know well what I'm talking about and because I know very well that the arche of state resources, I am now asking, if one of these 16 findings that I have mentioned to you, then there is a reasonable doubt that Mr. Sinisha Mali has already done damage to the state of Serbia in the past. And then, if we ignore the answers to such questions, then we can quite justifiably express our suspicion that he will continue to cause quite certain damage to the state of Serbia in the coming time. Finally, the key question that I am asking you now and I ask you to answer me – why do people with such a suspicious past go to key places in the country? It's not done by accident, at least that's what I think. Personally, I find it the only reason, that it is aimed at strengthening the partocratic regime in Serbia, which feeds on corruption. I'm asking you to answer me and tell me I'm wrong? If I am right, then Serbia's citizens will certainly not benefit from it and therefore I ask you, Miss Ana Brnabic, to withdraw this proposal because I think Mr Mali is not worthy of the functions you are proposing him to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37373	I thank my colleague, Mihajlovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37374	After your presentation and all that – is it true this and that, and all that I heard, thought, read, I thought, I dreamed, was it true, a hundred times this amazing data; I can only tell you that you are sure that Sinisha Mali is the best candidate for the finance minister, I would think that I am in trouble, as Prime Minister, and it is now... Thank God, so you don't think Sinisha Mali is the best candidate. It's amazing to me that only, how many months after the local elections in Belgrade?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37375	Two.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37376	Two since the local elections in Belgrade, after two months of local elections in Belgrade, someone, quite serious, seems to me to be kidding, says -- whether Sinisa Mali has brought Belgrade in line, that should be asked by Belgraders. Well, they were asked two months ago. Let's ask them for 15 days. I think the local elections in Serbia should be held for 15 days. We asked them two months ago. They were asked by the state whether Sinisa Mali and SNS, whether they had brought Belgrade into line with their coalition partners compared to 2014 and more, far more than half of them, more than 50% of Belgrade's said – it was true. You can ask them again. While you're with your coalition, and I have to tell you the same thing now because you surprised me now with your exposure, I wasn't ready for this, I have to tell you that I was surprised to see your coalition for local elections, DJ and Devery, but now it's clear to me. You have this theory that the world is ruled by reptiles and that it's 100 times - is it true everything I could think to ask; and if all that were true, I have to tell you Sinisha Mali wouldn't be here. Sinisha Mali would be as rich as Bill Gates and Richard Branson together, if that were true. He wouldn't sit here and be the finance minister. He could do anything together with his assets if he had a republican budget for Serbia. So, I want to tell you, the blank answer to 100 questions is "is it true"? No, it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37377	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37378	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there is a very serious task ahead of us, it is the choice of the finance minister. Serbia's strength is in the unity of the team led by the Socialist Movement Group -- the People's Peasants' Party -- the United Peasants' Party, believes the choice of Mr. Cynthia Malo is a good choice. We believe that according to the results he has achieved so far, he will be able to respond in the best possible way to the challenges of this function, but not less importantly to fit very well into the existing team. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, and then by Ana Brnabic, has been led from the very beginning by the same goal, which is to make Serbia a better place for the lives of all its citizens. Being part of the government isn't easy. The land's debt was too high. Of the money Serbia has borrowed, credit payments have been financed, not deficit cuts. Citizens suffered the burden of inevitable reforms from which the results were already seen in 2016, when a surplus of 1.8% of GDP was achieved, then in 2017, when 3.4 was achieved and when the public debt was 63.7% of GDP. The fiscal strategy envisions a reduction in public debt to 56.3% of GDP by 2020. Good conditions have been created for dynamic economic growth through investment. Today we have investors coming to Serbia because of a stable investment climate, construction of Corridor 10, works on Corridor 11, projects such as Belgrade highway – Sarajevo, a fast track project Belgrade – Novi Sad, etc. All this improves Serbia's significant position. This way, we also want to thank Minister Vujovic for his hard work and the results he has achieved, but also to say that this obliges everyone after him to fight even more committedly, to be even more persistent in order to justify the trust he has received. I read Mr. Cynthia's biography. We're commenting a lot today, and I can't believe anyone can argue with it and say it's not quality and that it can't qualify for the function it's proposed to today. The second part of the biography that does not refer to education, but relates to the results achieved, talks about it as the mayor of Belgrade, and these results do not need to be explained. We as citizens of Belgrade live them daily, but tourists are pleased to visit them. Since 2013, I've served as a senior GO Voždovac member and I first met with Mr. Mali when we were in the Pubal settlement of Zuce. It was about opening up a wastewater treatment plant and then Zuce got the sewers. There are plenty of people from the Pubal settlements who have asked when they will get that sewerage, because they have been waiting for over 60 years, and with that, I would like to commend everything Mr. Mali did during his term regarding the consolidation of public and public-communal enterprises, when we talk about "Belgrade Road", when we talk about "Greennile", but above all about "Vodovod and sewerage", because for us, Vozdovcane, it is very important that the divider part of Belgrade, means part of a city municipality in Belgrade, finally got a sewer. Sinisa Mali shows that he is innovative, that he is capable, that he is dedicated, but above all that he is part of the team, and that is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia needs. He showed he knew how to handle the cash register. That's why he's qualified for the state register. As mayor, he launched a financial consolidation programme and halved Belgrade's debt, which has been 1.2 billion euros since 2014. He cut the budget deficit four times. Due to the good handling of financing in Belgrade, the GDP of the Republic of Serbia has been maintained, and the construction industry has also been launched. A very important result was achieved when we talk about reducing unemployment, and the prime minister mentioned today that 25,500 people were employed during the post of Cynthia Malloy, a truly huge result. For the first time, Belgrade received a credit rating. We have become an attractive destination for tourists. Every year we have an increase of 20%, which brings the city an annual profit of 800m euros. The most important projects are "Belgrade on Water", "Ikea" Robna kuća, hotel "Hilton", Slavija, Bulevar Liberation, Rusveltova, Mija Kovacevic, Railway Station. I could count all day here what was done for Belgrade, but there's no need because the citizens showed they recognized it in the elections that, as we said, were only two months ago. The results were also obtained when we talk about the reconstruction of the administration. An electronic administration has been introduced, which combines procedures for building permits, as well as the "Baby, Welcome to the World" procedure, and then application procedures for kindergartens, etc. It is significantly easier for citizens of Belgrade by introducing an electronic administration. Being part of the government is definitely not easy. The difficulties facing each other daily require full commitment, combat and understanding of the needs of citizens. Serbia is moving forward, moving in the right direction. The policy led by the government, conducted by the finance minister, Mr Vujovic, speaks for himself. They have created the preconditions that each minister can, within his jurisdiction, influence the development of the Republic of Serbia through a budget that is now larger, which provides opportunities for more work and implementation of different projects. Through my whole address, I stress the importance of teamwork, and I would like to stress here that we have made sure in the previous period that it is the only formula for success. I would remind you that during the period of savings, while Minister Vulin was Minister of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs, that no single dinar of social giving was reduced during that period, which is definitely a very good indicator that it was teamwork, coordination between the two ministers, because it was important not to reduce these payments for the most vulnerable. Also, today, when Serbia faces another challenge, which is maintaining military neutrality policy, it is seen that it is recognised, that there is coordination, because it is now heavily invested in the defence ministry's budget, which has never been higher. He invests in people, invests in health care, invests in education. I hope that Mr. Mali will recognise the good projects that should be financed, that the results of the public debt reduction will be getting better, that this government will continue to work on improving the lives of all Serbian citizens. Serbia is a safe, stable country today. It is decided by its citizens. This is the result of Alexander Vukic's policy, the result of the government's policy. In voting day, we will support Mr. Little for the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37379	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37380	One of the things you mentioned, which I also think is extremely important, about unemployment in Belgrade, which is, after all, the best sign of recovery. In the meantime, I received data, on average, because one of the MPs asked that question. So in 2013, we had a record unemployment rate of 15.9% in Belgrade, so less than 16%. In March 2018, unemployment in Belgrade reached 10.8%, so we have realistically reduced it by about five to six percent only in these last four years, which is a really fantastic success and I think it is one of the references recommended by Sinisha Mali to the workplace. I also wanted to look back once again, and I know that we're going to have a break, on this business of the short company, which I can't possibly forgive, and I want to tell people who actually told young people in Belgrade that if they work, the leadership of the short companies, for them there's no legitimate future in Serbia, to watch out anyway. Here, once again, let me call before the break, because let's say a company like "Apple" or "Procter&Gamble", a company that's mostly run across a short company, for all young people in Serbia, for all young people from Serbia who today, for example, work at Apple, my message would be: "Don't worry, Serbia will always be open to you, just come back. Here you will have a future, because I hope this philosophy, as introduced to Serbia 2013/2014, will remain and these young people will be able to return." If, at some point, the opposition takes power again, it is realistic that these people have no place to go back, because if you've ever worked at Apple, your career is over. I would also like to call that as frequent guests, for example, N1 TV from now on refuse every one of their guests on that television because it's also a short company, so since it's not moral, okay, and since someone who used to work or run a short company can't do and run anything in Serbia, then I think it's moral that you don't visit on televisions that are of short companies. One more thing, which was particularly important and difficult when it came to the services of citizens in the city of Belgrade and publishing and for the socially endangered, but also for the population policy... (Radoslav Milojic: Do you hear that this person insults the messengers? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37381	My colleague Milojicic, please don't have a dialogue like this. You'll get a chance to talk. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37382	When what was one of the most difficult and socially and financially difficult things, it is that, when due to higher prices of kindergarten, and you will know it, because you were in the Assembly, because of the higher prices of kindergarten, in 2014 when Sinisa Mali took over the mayor's mandate, around 15,000 lawsuits that the city government had to pay, which was now paid out of the budget for the people of 448 million dinars, because someone blew up the expenses and monthly bills for kindergartens for pre-school institutions in Belgrade. It's those things that show everything that Sinisha Mali is... What are you talking about? I understand, I can really understand that it's hard to hear about the condition left in the city register. I really understand it's hard. What are you talking about? Shame on you. Are you threatening me?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37383	My colleagues, please, you'll have a chance to speak. Mr. President, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37384	Okay. I understand that it is also difficult to listen about the problems that have been made, but I hoped that it was easier to hear about how these problems have been corrected by professional work and advocacy and how the situation in Belgrade's capital, which represents 40% of Serbia's economic growth, has improved. I was hoping that we would all be happy about it together and have a debate here that respects these results that have been achieved. In any event, thanks to this work and effort, not only fiscal consolidation was established, debts, debts and public utility companies and debts the city had towards citizens, those of the most vulnerable and most vulnerable groups to which these debts amounted to more than 500 million dinars so far. So, these are the things recommended by Sinisha Malah for the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37385	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm giving a break. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37386	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue today's work. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37387	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs, well we could hear in the morning part of the debate is one very unusual thing. In fact, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has promoted the work of the Shore Company in the world, and that seems to me to be an unprecedented example in the world today, that a government is promoting the work of the Shore Company. A few months last year, in fact, I think, a world affair, so-called. The "pannonic papers" shed light on the functioning of the brother-in-law of companies in the world and the reaction was that all governments had committed themselves and set out to implement measures to reduce their business through the short-term company, because in a large number of cases, proven cases served as non-transparent business, money laundering, as well as criminal financing. Of course, no one disputes the right of a Serbian citizen to do business through the Shore Company and only business over the Shore Company can, of course, be immediately marked as criminal, but work to change the environment and government of all countries of the world are trying to be "Apple", "Procter and Gamble", as the Prime Minister and other large companies have said, transferring their businesses from the short zone to the countries of origin, i.e. that the business of water in the countries in which they operate in accordance with their law and that what large companies do and why they transferred their business to the short zone was used to avoid tax payments. If we are talking about the need to introduce order, and if we are talking about the need to reduce the gray zone of the Serbian economy, which is 30% today, then I guess one of the priorities should be to fight business through the short-term, not promoting them. I think that Serbia is the only single country in the world today that promotes such business. Why is it interesting in the case of Mr Sinishi Mali to do business over of the Shore Zone and why are the business also dealt with by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately, and they deal in such a way as to never complete the investigation? Mr. Sinisa Mali sold his company for 525 thousand euros over the short zone in 2009, I think. How did this money come into the account of a company whose director was Sinisa Mali and who then bought a company in Serbia that practically did not work? That case is covered by the prosecution, but I repeat, in a way that there is no answer. Somewhere at the beginning of this debate, Mr. Markovic said that the biography of Synchies Small instead of these two sides, as far as we got, should have been on 50 pages. This is a biography, i.e. contributions to Mr. Sinishi Mali's biography on some 30 pages, and on all 30 sides is all an affair until the affair, where the rule is, in the end, that it states that the Anti-Corruption Agency is checking out the prosecution, that the allegations are being checked by another state body, but there is no epilogue anywhere. That's what many of my colleagues used to talk about before me. I will not repeat myself, list what is controversial in the biography of Mr Sinishi Mali, not only in the last four years how he has served as mayor of Belgrade, but all the time, according to the Prime Minister, when he returned to the country to help. Not only did he come back, but many other people, but few who today, after helping Serbia, have 18 years of millions. So Mr. Sinisha Mali is unique. This is why his biography is interesting. Here he suggested Prime Minister Sinisa Mali worked at the Privatisation Agency until March 2003 and thus wanted to amneste himself from numerous controversial privatisations mentioned in the public of Serbia years ago. There is one problem, on the Belgrade site, is still the biography of Sinisha Mali, and it says that Mr. Sinisa Mali, acting as director of the Competition Privatisation Centre, was by the end of 2003, and in his biography when he was elected mayor in 2014, it was written by October 2003. Why is it that these few months are important here? Because one of the controversial privatisations is the privatisation of Beopetrol and the tender for the disputed privatisation, often seen by MPs of the ruling coalition in August 2003. Now the question is whether Mr. Sinisha Mali was or wasn't the director of that center? His official biography on the Belgrade city site says he was. He told the Prime Minister here he wasn't. Why was this privatisation one of the controversial, which was not the only one, in the mandate of Sinisha Malo, there were "Yugormedia", "Evening News", "Keramika" Kanjiza, "Veterinary Institute", "Sartid", all of which happened until that March 2003, and this happened in August, when we do not know whether it was or wasn't. Did he lie in a biography that was valid until today, or is he just now telling the truth? It is important because Mr Sinishi Mali's business after leaving the Agency overlaps with "Lukoila", overlaps with people who were involved in the privatisation. They overlap with 24 apartments in Bulgaria. Well, says the Prime Minister - where are these apartments now? Well, the prime minister says -- that Mr. Sinisa Mali transferred ownership, i.e. the management of companies that bought those apartments to another person, which Bulgaria's official authorities do not recognise. There Mr. Sinisha Mali was held there until 2017 as director. And it seems to me that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are in no way able to dissipate and disintegrate. And, now, we should expect, let's say, that Mr. Sinisa Mali, tomorrow as Minister of Finance and in charge of the work of the Money Laundering Directorate, who dealt with his work and work and character and business and the fact that he owned or held the funds with 45 accounts, that he would not influence the work of that administration, although that administration did do its job, gave him to the prosecution, and from there we have no vote in the back. It is very interesting, it would be interesting if we had received this great biography from the promoters, to hear whether, before the court, Mr Sinisa Mali said that 60,000 euros for his children's education in private schools are paid by friends from abroad. I ask you in which country, some politician could go out and say – my children's education, which is 20 average earnings in that country, are paid by friends from abroad. Well, that's the essence of the conflict of interest and the influence that the law defines. And that's what he's going through. It's not a newspaper sign, it's a statement before the court. On the other hand, why one high-ranking civil servant, among the highest, doesn't trust the state school, but is training children in private schools. And what we who don't have these opportunities, or friends from abroad, and educate children in public schools, we can expect about the knowledge our children will receive in these schools. A number of questions are raised here, and we don't have an answer to them, but we're trying to wash Mr. Syniche's biography a few months back. I guess it's like getting ready for this function. The last thing in this preparation was the story of the suspension of the Interim Retirement Act. That's sorry, for us MPs in the National Assembly stories, because we didn't get that bill. We have an announcement that it will be from November, and probably until next year. So how many stories did we have that something would be in two years, two and a half years, no later than three? Are the apartments ahead of Belgrade's "Belgrade on Water" elections moved when a spring move was announced? Are they inhabited? Here in the biography it writes – the construction of a new bus station has been launched. Here, I invite you to see if there's a single worker on that construction site today. There's no one here. After the election and pre-election pictures, nothing. There's one bagger standing there, he's rusty there, he hasn't moved in three months and he keeps on making up. The prime minister here, explaining and answering certain questions, spoke about GDP growth. As quiet as we were last year, or we didn't listen to that GDP growth data in 2017, that's all we're hearing about now. The deafening noise of 4.5% growth in the first three months of this year. As a citizen of Serbia, I would like it to continue and have so much growth at the end of the year, but let's look back, let's see the results. Here are the results of the Western Balkan countries, from 2013 to 2017, combined. The whole region has GDP growth by five years 2.3%. The country with the lowest growth in the five years is Serbia, 1.3%. The lowest growth in five years in the entire environment has been Serbia and this is the result and continuity of the government's work over the past five years. Do the citizens have any hope that something will change with this choice? No, I don't. The Prime Minister tells us that – we will continue. So, the lowest growth. Next thing you know, they're paying. Only Albania and Macedonia today have less average earnings than citizens of the Republic of Serbia, 49,400 dinars are the average earnings paid in March 2018. I prepared myself, as suggested by the Prime Minister, or 418 euros. Media profits, which means half the profits are higher, half the income is less 38,238 dinars or 323 euros. The most frequently paid earnings in Serbia are slightly more than 25,000 dinars, i.e. minimum earnings, 212 euros. Such results, such a government policy has led to poverty in Serbia being the largest in Europe. These are the disastrous consequences of this government's policy. If we had the opportunity to conduct a dialogue normally, surely that the election results would be different, but we can't talk about this anywhere except in parliament, on rare occasions, and often, unfortunately, not here. What I'm afraid of is that Mr. Sinisha Mali, by choosing as finance minister, will not be able to do the most important things that are needed right now. It's a reform of the Tax Administration, which would have to be, not a beating to which the state hits the economy and citizens, but to be a service to the citizens. Mr. Sinisa Mali would finally have to fulfil, or the Ministry of Finance and the Government, the obligation of the FATFA, which put Serbia on the blacklist for lack of a mechanism to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. We first heard from the Prime Minister that Serbia had fulfilled everything, and then a few weeks ago we passed laws that we missed so we could meet everything, but we have to have the law implemented. How do we expect Sinisha Mali, as the champion of offshore business, to be the bearer of the fight for transparent business and the fight against money laundering? We're very skeptical of that. Finally, I hope that the new minister will fulfill the promise of more than six years old by the SNS, which is adoption, that is, to be sent to the Assembly of the Law on the Origin of Assets. If he doesn't know how to write it, here, feel free to take our proposal. We want one such law in Serbia as soon as possible to determine how many people it has, each of the public officials, as it has acquired it, to finally end this kind of debate where the former rule of law for all and all things is irrevocably attacked, and members of the current government become millionaires, millionaires in euros, with dozens of real estate in Serbia, with dozens of real estate outside Serbia, with millions of offshore accounts outside Serbia, with millions in bills in Serbia's banks. The latest report Mr. Sinisha Mali filed to the Anti-Corruption Agency is not a famous apartment, one, not 24, but the one he admitted to having in Bulgaria. I don't know what happened to that apartment, but I say there are a lot of questions that Serbian citizens deserve to answer before this election. Of course, there's a question of a disputed doctorate. I also find it interesting to ask a question asked by the Prime Minister, and why should Mr. Sinisha Malo, who has an education that he acquired at the Faculty of Economics, has mastered the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade and this international education, why would he plagiarise a doctorate? I don't understand it either. I can't understand that. Whether or not it is, since it is obvious that the university has no power to determine, it may well be, I hope, one day the court, because at the end of the day, the people whose sentences were copied by Mr. Sinisha Mali in their doctorate have resolved, since the state and the University are not responding, to sue him. Mr. Prime Minister, here we will finally welcome, hopefully, one day the answer to whether that doctorate is plagiarized or not. But it is a shame for the country of Serbia to ask this question for so long and to ask this question to this day, here, when it is necessary for Mr Sinisha Mali to choose one of the most responsible functions in the Republic of Serbia, we do not have an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37388	The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37389	Everything you've said and all the claims you've made might be serious and it might be difficult for them to answer, if we didn't know that you brought Serbia in for three months from bankruptcy and so... I don't think it's funny. I don't know, it's not really funny to me. ... The city of Belgrade left with a billion and 118m euros in debt, 14 billion dinars of unpaid liabilities and a 20.25% deficit. Then somehow when we know that this is how the state was run and that you left the country with such results, then it's kind of really hard to think about how you knew how to protect the economy and how you promoted small and medium-sized enterprises and defended the rule of law, and how it all worked great then, and now it just doesn't work, and how Serbia was then Switzerland, and the wages in Serbia were one of the largest in Europe at the time, but now, as a result of the work of this government and the previous government, they fell a lot, but then they were very high. You said, however, that I should be promoting the work of an offshore company. It's a fairly superficial and very transparent replacement of the thesis for which, okay, I want to answer, although I believe that the citizens of Serbia see it themselves, without me talking about it. So, I didn't promote the work of offshore companies, I defended people who work in companies owned by companies operating in offshore areas and thus optimize taxes. I don't promote that. I would prefer that all these companies are registered in Serbia, pay all taxes in Serbia and we can fully monitor their business. But I don't want to incriminate people who work for these companies because they're not legislators and they work legally in legal companies. While I am Prime Minister, I will fight that because someone works in an offshore company or works at a company registered in Serbia or is, for example, registered in Luxembourg and owned by an offshore company, they will be discriminated against in any way because tomorrow, when they want to perform a public function, someone like you will be able to tell them – well, what you were, because you worked in an offshore company. I don't think these people are to blame and have the same rights and equal obligations as all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of promoting companies, such and such, as I said in the afternoon presentation in answering questions, what is amazing to me, but the whole economy can testify about it, you were the ones who promoted the gray economy, because of which small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia did not exist and those who existed were stagnant. Why? Because no one had thought to say before 2015 that the inspections were also in charge of unregistered companies. So you, for example, have a volcanoeizer next to each other or a hair salon next to each other in which one is registered, and there comes a inspection, looking, running all the papers, charging the fines, coming out of there, entering the other next to a vulcanizer or a hairdresser shop and they say – gentlemen, we are not registered. And they say, "Woe, I apologize for entering you, for we are not in charge of you by the Law of Inspectors. You continue to operate in the gray zone, and I will punish those who are registered and that I am trying to find them some things that may have skipped or forgot to do legally. It only changed in 2015 to introduce a fair market, primarily for small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia. So, about who has promoted and how good it is for Serbia, again, I have examples that say that the gray economy was then promoted, and that we are today fighting for all employees, for all companies and for the fair market. You're talking about a small number of people who have returned to Serbia from abroad like Sinisha Mali, and today there are millions. I agree, there are a small number of people who have returned to Serbia and today there are millions, but there is no one in Serbia, I think, except Dragan Gilas, who has returned from abroad to Serbia and only 25m euros reported. I think he's the champion man in that, but you're saying... (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Are you saying that there is a problem when people from abroad return to Serbia and work here and are successful? Sinisa Mali has no millions, he is certainly a successful businessman, a man who is a career in the private sector, a well-paid career left to serve the citizens of Belgrade and now we hope for the citizens of Serbia. When you say "Beopetrol", do you need to check and see that the privatisation of Beopetrol itself is not disputed, that what is controversial is the activation of a guarantee that the DSS under pressure has abolished, and that Sinisa Mali has inserted into the privatisation contract. This was controversial at Beopetrol. Please, really, once again, because we have relatively often elections in Serbia, when you ask the question of whether citizens have hope and then you say it in a theatre – no, then you need to sit down, look at the results of the elections, and see that citizens have hope, that from 2014 citizens have regained hope in their country, and in their economy, in their assembly, and in the president, and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37390	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37391	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. – the dignity of the National Assembly for the simple reason you kept quiet when the Serbian Prime Minister mentioned Dragan Gilas with obvious accusations that no longer stand. And when the Prime Minister of any world, and in this case Serbia mentions nothing of a man who is not a national MP in this House, who is not present at this session, who has no right to respond, and we are in direct transmission, then it is a kind of persecution that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia must explain to you as chairman and apologize for what she just said. A time of persecution in Serbia, the seventh year in a row takes place towards people who have done their job with honor, honesty and responsibility. If someone did something wrong, if someone broke a law, and the Prime Minister is here to instruct the minister to conduct an investigation, and to see if citizen Dragan Gilas is really in a criminal case or not. Otherwise, we expect an apology for the citizens of Serbia, because tomorrow, about it, tomorrow, it can be about any citizen who is not a member of this parliament who is not a member of this parliament to be evaluated in this way, because a man has a family, putting him at great risk by providing personal information about him. Also, I've never been there for anyone who's not in the O.R. to be subject to this kind of mockery of criticism without anyone answering on his behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37392	The Prime Minister didn't break the Rules of Procedure. She presented data from a time when the city of Belgrade was then run by Mayor Dragan Gilas and mentioned his reported assets that you can see on the Anti-Corruption Agency website and you and every other citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think there's anything going on here. No new information, nothing that is not already available to the public is mentioned. So I don't see what the Prime Minister did wrong. Do you want the Parliament to make statements in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) First Vladimir Orlic, then Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37393	Article 106, Mr. Chairman. On the subject of distracting him who speaks and speaking, for throwing out loud, what was it, disdain, and much more sounds like a horror laugh and throwing out the one who advertised the Rules of Procedure now. It is obvious here that the intention to stand here in the protection of Dragan Gilas, congratulating the efficiency of the meeting in the cafes, is obviously a result. One note and I return immediately to the explanation, if what is said earlier is the basis for some persecution, then Aleksandar Vukic is the most persecuted in Serbia, and nowhere is he able to answer as a MP, does not participate with you in these discussions and duels and does not come out of your mouth. Now, let me get back to this argument. There was a lot of noise because of the mention of Dragan Gilas, and there was a lot of noise on the subject of whether what was said here was true. Please, when I told Dragan Gilas that Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy, that's what you laughed about. Laugh at Dragan Gilas the next time you see him at the cafe, laugh at his face and say he was wrong. He said it himself in early 2013. When the question arises who, how and in what way, made a fortune to those millions and you're absolutely right, the man himself reported 25 million. Reported everything he had that he hadn't reported, we can only dream about it. Ladies and gentlemen, always speak to people who know the subject well and are from your ranks. So instead of throwing himself here, to distract the speaker, I call here and this time, I often talk about it, distinguished colleagues, to analyze the report they made themselves. In particular, let the people of their own party ask, although this is more business than the parties who signed the report: Goran Paunovic, Cedomir Vasic, Nenad Borovic, Zivan Miric and Goran Radojev, who are in the internal document of their joint yellow company, so here I also think of these defenders of Djilas and those defenders of Djilas who will now report to Vuk Tadic's spokesmans, including Tadic himself, let all of them work together and thus end, Mr Chairman. As their colleagues found out that they were stealing, that they were putting on a percentage and that they were setting up tenders. Let me get this straight, and there's no reason for them to get it, not even to laugh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37394	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37395	Dear Chairman, I would also point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Members 106 and 107, because I think that in the continuity of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, he is insulting the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is not talking about the agenda points, or the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Namely, she does it in a few ways. I'll try to distract you. First, she does not answer the questions of the MPs of the people, so she talks about everything except what the MPs ask. The second thing, she comments on the election results, and she never took part in any of the elections herself, and I don't see where she gets the right to comment on the election results. She came to power in Serbia without ever getting support from Serbian citizens for it. The third, very important thing is that we even caught her on several occasions telling the truth. When she said that at the time of the Privatisation Agency, Sinisha Mali, no robbery privatisations were performed, and they were carried out. And when she said that the commissions on his doctorate were doing their job, and they weren't doing their job and no commission had ever reached any conclusion. So this really went too far. I understand that as MPs, we should respect the Prime Minister when he comes to parliament, that's totally fine, but the Prime Minister would have to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. So he can't tell the truth, he can't speak beyond the agenda, he can't talk about choices she's never participated in and he can't play something she's not. The source of its political power lies at Andric's wedding. She has no political power, and in that sense, no authority. She set her face by someone who did win the election, but it's not her.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37396	You've come out of the matter of violation of the Rules of Procedure of Members 106 and 107...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37397	I just wanted to point out, the Honorable Chairman, to these violations of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37398	... And you have moved on to the field of personal insults to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37399	If it's true insult, then...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37400	You did not speak of Articles 106 and 107 or at least your reasoning was offensive, and I believe that you have misused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, because you have talked about everything other than what contains the matter of Articles 106 and 107, and I cannot assess whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Right on line, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37401	President, I haven't, unfortunately, received answers to a few questions I've asked. I got a repeat of the flat and untrue, first of all, I have to say, the evaluation of the results of the former government's policy, the former government is already six years old, and the alibi that this ruling majority has been trying to do to itself, saying that it is all responsible for the former government. When they no longer have a way to find what wasn't good at the time, use and repair, they start inventing and inventing this story of bankruptcy. If ever Serbia was bankrupt, yes, it was in bankruptcy at the end of 2014, because you ran a catastrophic policy for two years. You put Serbia from 45% to over 75% of GDP, and then you implemented fiscal consolidation measures, reducing pensions, and instead of exploiting that space that was made in the budget for public business administration reform, nothing was done for four years. It is the most missed chance of the Republic of Serbia. You're talking about that again, the results of Synchia Malah in Belgrade. Well, I'm asking you if the results are so good and surplus, why did the republican budget of the 110 million dinar budget transfer to the City of Belgrade in 2017? Why? Why are you talking about investment progress in Belgrade, and a quarter of the squares built in Belgrade are illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37402	Thank you. Time. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37403	I just want to respond again for a second. I really don't know. You're saying I'm talking casually about the results of this government or, I don't know, talk about government results six years ago or something? Well, yes, if you have such a situation, it takes you four, five years of hard work to get some results, to get Serbia off the edge of bankruptcy. So I never said or heard anyone say Serbia went bankrupt. No, fortunately not. It was three months since bankruptcy in 2014, thanks to pensions, which is when the 2008 budget was broken in the pre-election campaign four times in the election year. I understand. You're bored. I hope the citizens aren't bored. Also, I'm asking you, now I've checked again, when it comes to economics, jobs and everything you've talked about in your previous presentation and how it's possible that the results are waiting for two, three, four years, so, you see, you haven't boasted about the economic growth of those years in 2009, minus 3.1%, 2010 -- significant 0.6%. Today we are discussing about 2.8% of fiscal consolidation measures that are very bad, 2.8%. So minus 3.1% in 2009, 0.6% in 2010, minus 1% of GDP in 2012. What do you think, how many years does it take, if not four or five, to prevent bankruptcy, to create macroeconomic stability and raise growth with a minus 1 to 2.8%? Honestly, I don't even think you have any bad intentions. I think this is the ultimate concern that has led to this situation in Serbia and enormous ignorance, but if we have to talk further about it, I will report every time I try to share with you the knowledge and information that will help us to have a dynamic, sustainable growth in the future. As far as the Commission is concerned, I have checked and at the time of the break, the Commission has already confirmed twice the majority of the votes that the Ph.D. is Cynthia Malo's authentic. I can see that as a fact it's not enough, so I checked again. The first time was August 25, 2014 - 108 votes for, four abstentions. The second time in October 15, 2014 - 117 votes for, one vote abstention. You can talk now and how college doesn't have the strength to resist, but I believe in our colleges and believe that they have the power to tell what's true and under so much pressure that when even two commissions are not enough anymore, we're looking for a third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37404	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37405	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, former mayor, Mr. Sinisa Mali and I know each other from the City Assembly. We had four years to debate bitterly what we thought was not in line with the interests of the citizens of Belgrade, and what the SNS promoted as projects that would create new symbols in the city, which would rebirth Serbia, which would employ hundreds of thousands of people. We also had the opportunity to discuss all the affairs that rocked the city of Belgrade in those four years and all the personal objections that we had at the expense of the mayor of Belgrade were told and we still had the opportunity to hear from my distinguished opposition colleagues today. Of course, it would be a different matter if this was a country that was regulated and governed by the rule of law, so that things like this couldn't happen, that some big affairs couldn't be left without a court epilogue, but it's completely irrelevant and that's what's the point today. If he is a candidate for the minister of finance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is absolutely irrelevant. You can run anyone from the ruling majority. You and Marijan Risticevic can run for the Minister of Culture tomorrow, nothing will change. The people will remain as confused as they've been a thousand times before. There will be those who are not satisfied with their lives, whom you absolutely do not want to help. You're going to have a situation where Serbia is going backwards on every matter and I wouldn't be dealing with Cynthia Mali today, because I've had a chance to talk about him a thousand times. I'd first of all deal with you, since you're supposed to be the person who suggested Mr. Sinisha Malloy to be Minister of Finance. I don't know if, as Prime Minister, you see how humiliated you are by, first of all, your colleagues? All these bottles of water here standing around you are set up for members and ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and none came today to support you. The whole of Serbia knows that Mr. Sinisha Mali was appointed by Aleksandar Vukic, not you, that he suggested him, not you. The government of the Republic of Serbia cannot have a Prime Minister or Prime Minister, which is a few excelling political functions, which will say in public – no, but we forget, I am not a politician, I am a technocrat. The government in any part of the world can't function unless it has the political capacity to bring out even the worst idea in the world. Today Serbia is in its kind of "orbanisation". I know you're boasting about your next prime minister. I think it's a shame, because that country and that society are in deep crisis, as well as in Turkey. There is no difference between Erdogan today, between Orban and Alexander Vukic. Today, Serbia is in a much bigger crisis than what we represent, who are burning up here because of, I don't know, some candidate. Tomorrow, there may be a president of the National Assembly of Culture Ministers, and then we will talk again, we will transfer each other, and yes, what the people would say - we are beating empty straw; while much more important, for the citizens of Serbia and for the future of Serbian citizens, the issues are going on without us knowing anything at all. We don't know what to talk about Kosovo. We don't know who killed Oliver Ivanovic. Mrs. Ana Brnabic, he was one of the leaders of the opposition in Serbia. One of the leaders of the opposition was killed. To this day, we have absolutely no record of who he is and why he did it. We have a statement from Hashim Thaci, who said there was no speech about political murder but that it was a drug cartel conflict. Is it not a shame that Deputy Prime Minister Hoxhaj, whom you support with SNS MPs in the Kosovo assembly, accuses your police minister of hiding who killed Oliver Ivanovic? In such circumstances and situations, because you are the ones who support this government that says that, I assume it's very close to you, not to say a single word, but to transfer responsibility from one minister to another and try to marginalize the subject. I think that's the main question. Who will be the finance minister, whether one who has led Belgrade for four years, in my deep court, disastrously, or whether you will put Marjan Risticevic, or anyone, Serbs of Filipovic, is completely whatever. This is about the private state of Alexander Vukic, his environment, which exclusively serves to satisfy his personal interests and the interest of that small circle of people around him. Now that's what's the point, and that's what you, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, don't understand. You don't understand, when you say you're in favour of the rule of law and you expect an independent judiciary, and in another sentence, you say that everyone welcomed the collapse in Savamala, so you can welcome it. That's what's the problem for us, and that's what's causing the infidels when it comes to your proposal for any minister. We see how you are respected by ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We had a summit in Sofia. Did you also say in one sentence that the future finance minister will conceive his job, or his tasks, given the government's policy, which no longer goes to the EU? You had a statement from the French president who told the minority that the Western Balkans would forget and that it would never be integrated as a full member of the EU, none of the countries. How do you talk about 40 per cent of people in Serbia today being for the EU, for integration, of 70% and something, just five or six years ago? These are the results of the government policy of the Republic of Serbia. We can talk about affairs, affairs, we're used to it, there's this every day as much as you want, under media pressure the affair comes out on every possible corner and the citizens are more sick than that, because they know that none of them will be processed while you're in power. And that's what's wrong. Of course we're angry with you and, of course, we resent it and of course we don't agree with your government's results, but what you need to know is that, believe it or not, we didn't expect it to be any different from you. We are far more angry at ourselves than we are at you, because our behavior obviously led us to the fact that we cannot cope with what you represent and do in Serbia today, or on behalf of the President of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, I am sure that the plan to unify the opposition will be the only logical solution, which will contribute to the fact that the worst not government, not government, but one man's regime in Serbia, will be permanently removed from this political stage. It is something that citizens expect to survive, that Serbia will eventually survive. Vujovic was a minister, he also had references, he also brought his CV here, his biography, I'm sure he was, according to what it says, much more directed to what the finance minister, Mr. Cynthia Malo, sent, but here we have one problem, we have a problem with which Mr. Sinisa Mali and I have debated for years back, and this is public debt and as it counts. For a little while you said that an important institution was fiscal council, impartial, real, said Mr. Sinisha Mali didn't know how to account for public debt. Now you claim to know. Mr Vujovic, who until recently served as minister, claims that Mr Sinisa Mali does not know how to account for public debt, primarily in Belgrade, and how will he know in Serbia? You initially said that a billion and 118 million, what, or 180 million was in charge of the city of Belgrade, which is not true. The Treasury Administration, the Government's Debt Administration, issued a report saying Belgrade's debt was 395m euros in 2013. With 40 kindergartens, three completed bridges, many other things built in Belgrade, from boulevards, schools, pardon health institutions, etc., due to the social policy that was then led in the city of Belgrade, all this was done and only 395m euros were borrowed. For this reason, I don't see why you'd still be stressed when we talk about the former city government, unless we're talking about results, it's working twice as well, even the private sector in the city of Belgrade at that time as it is today. For 50 euros, there was more pay in the private sector than it is today. You are talking about how Mr. Sinisa Mali, the best minister, candidate, pardon, for the finance minister, and your concept of politics, among other things, was that in Belgrade you were the only job opening, where the salary is 212 or 215 euros, and that you gave not 10,000 euros per job, but that you gave hundreds of thousands of euros per job, such as "Meita" in Obrenovac, where workers must start and finish work, not to move and go to the toilet. What the Obrenovac municipality gave, given by the city of Belgrade and given by the Republic of Serbia, is hundreds of thousands of euros per job. When I said that we had become a cheaper workforce than there is in China and that Chinese investors recognized it so they came to make factories and companies in Serbia because they have slaved cheap labour, then you apologized to the Ambassador of China on my behalf, because you said that you were ashamed of course of the people's MPs who speak in this way, and you are not ashamed of the citizens of Serbia, or the situations in which you introduced Serbian citizens to feed the four-member family on a monthly basis. You're not ashamed of that? From the cuts in wages, from the cuts in pensions, as you know all the opposition colleagues, the real opposition, not your "Vučić's opposition" was a proposal to abolish pension cuts and to return pensions to the old ones, but we also said that the difference would come back. You can't announce your retirement without returning what you took away from them in the meantime. This is all normal and it will have to be returned by the time Serbia becomes a normal state. Where'd you get the money? We'll see about that, but we don't want the success of some alleged, nonexistent, to measure the amount of cargo on the coat of arms of the poor people. I think it's more than sad for Serbia in the 21st century. This is just another play, another play behind the scenes is taking place, another performance and a marginal theme to entertain the people, to fund work in the Assembly, which also no longer exists, and in which MPs cannot express themselves in the way they think, without getting 20 days and a few days of banning entry into parliament. Of course, the situation in the media, in terms of human rights and freedoms, is disastrous, but the reports say it and you know it very well. In the reports, Serbia is called a captured state. That's what you've had a chance to hear, if you've been present, and in Sofia. At the summit in Sofia, Serbia marked itself as a captive country. You can talk about what happened six years ago, but Serbia was not a captive country six years ago. Six years ago, we had a president who drank and toasted with a glass of alcohol at a football game, and the next day he had to answer to the court for it. And today you have a violation of the Constitution, a robbery of state property, hundreds and hundreds of affairs, and no one is absolutely responsible for anything. You have a situation that several companies in Serbia have won thousands of tenders in the last five years. I don't know if you've heard of "Vin Vin", have you heard of "Profiler", have you heard of companies that are close to the top of the SNS? It's companies that make millions and millions. They're firms that win all the tenders. No one's allowed to sign up for a tender. The market in Serbia no longer exists. Freedom is completely dead and abolished. That's why the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not behind you, obviously does not stand behind your words that you are saying to us here today. It's completely irrelevant, I repeat, who's going to be the finance minister. Everything is one thing, given everything that has happened in Belgrade and Serbia in the last six years. I think it's a shame when the only argument in 2018 could be an attack on some government there, which, believe me, I don't remember either, or I was ever part of it, but it's a basic argument for you to steal everything you failed to do in your term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37406	There's a lot of people on the line. First it was Aleksandra Tomic, so Marijan Risticevic, Serbia's Filipovic, but in the meantime we also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MP. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37407	Thank you, Chairman. There's a really rough violation of article 107 here. Rules of Procedure. This kind of speech really offends not only the intelligence of the MPs and this House, but all of Serbia's citizens. If members of the former red-bearded pirate association that robbed Belgrade, they think we've got so much to lose and forgotten what they stole by 2012, and we're playing search for buried treasure today...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37408	Which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37409	Article 107(1) I said it at the very beginning. If they think today this game is a search for lost treasure in an attempt to return to power for something that will pass with Serbian citizens, they are in grave error. Let them continue to play with the mobile phones of the game, it is very interesting in those circles, and when they explain that Serbian citizens today much less want in the EU compared to the period of 2012, so there is a very simple explanation. By 2012, 70% of Serbian citizens were literally hungry and were ready to go to the EU at any cost. That's not the case today. Serbian citizens are living much better today, thinking with their heads, not thinking with their empty stomachs, and for this reason they have changed their minds on the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37410	Article 107 is a bit of a broad interpretation. I can't find the guilt inside me in what you said I didn't respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marijan Risticevic, a replica, a personal mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not as pretty and smart as the previous speaker, but I'm certainly more cultural than he is. I am a farmer, but that doesn't mean I'm less smart. Since I was nine and ten years old, my parents have been superiors and I've been doing agriculture and I'm not ashamed of it. I didn't have anyone to finish college at the Bonafides cafe. He couldn't work it out with Vodaelićka or a wine girl, so to speak, as someone did to him. But I'm never twice my age, and he says I'm uncultured, I didn't say fire monkeys, like he does to me. It doesn't occur to me that I should call my colleague Micun, who is older than me, any name of evil. I don't want to cut the slaps on the chairman of the assembly. That's what he says, about his culture. I see he's changed the boss, but that doesn't mean he's smarter, he's better, or he's back to his previous boss. I didn't slap people like his boss. Yes, I am the son of a prizer, I did not inherit the gold mine as Gilas, or as a Jeremic oil source, in the left torn shoe or diamonds at the right shoe, so I didn't get so rich and hooked up. But now I understand why his party failed in the Belgrade elections. Whoever ran that election went well. I think it's his chance to spend hundreds of thousands of euros on the Maldives to rest and think that's why he's smarter and more cultured, that Maldives and holidays in the Maldives are his last chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37412	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37413	Thank you, Chairman. The replica to the presentation of the previous speaker, which spoke of the affairs that Mr. Sinisa Mali as mayor also referred to as SNS, shows that gentlemen have no intention of talking at all about finance and finance ministers, that they want to replace topics with factory affairs, which, of course, are paid from some centres of power. And we're asking here as MPs of the positioning parties to tell us what the centers of power paid for these factory affairs, since we're constantly listening, we repeat, and we see essentially that the material is gone. And when I do, I'm going to give every one of them a taxicab and you're going to see that it's actually all about paying for such projects. When we talk about the level of democracy and the index published by the English "Economist", by 2012, the level of democracy, when we talk about the area of finance and in general the area of law, has been at the level of the hybrid regime, and since 2012 it has been in a democratic regime with certain challenges, which has been ranked alongside the United States. So if this level of democracy is so destroyed during SNS, then why do English magazines publish such data? And they have to explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37414	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37415	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister and future minister, the previous speaker has told a bunch of lies, of course. At the beginning of the replica, all I'm going to say is that this is the man whose member, when he took over her city board, had 25% support in Belgrade, brought it to below 2%. So much for how much they know about numbers. About how much they know about numbers and finances we heard from you today, how much Belgrade was in charge, nearly a billion and 200 million euros, 14 billion owed the city of Belgrade at the time of those experts, experts, who flew, wintered in the Maldives, etc. If we're talking about culture, so you fake, self-proclaimed, self-proclaimed elitists have closed two museums, and one of them, the Museum of Contemporary Art has opened the power of the SNS. The National Museum is the second minister of the ranks and failed yellow parties closed, we open it on Vidovdan. These are the results of this government. You have nothing else to say. Of course, everything in Serbia you closed down, from factories, museums, there was no job for people. You are the evil self of Serbia. All the worst that has happened to Serbia in history is you, the yellow company, Dragan Gilas, Sutanovac and the rest of the scum that rode this country for 12 years. (Maya Vidinović: Hello! ) We raised Serbia and we employ workers in Serbia, 140,000 new jobs in the past five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37416	Ambassador, please, no offense. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37417	I must say, first of all, that I can fully understand that you are angry at yourself. I can understand that. And that's responsible. Everyone would be angry with themselves if in the capital of Belgrade, where your foothold, in a four-party coalition, you achieved a score of 2.24%. I understand you're mad at yourself. But the fact that you're angry with yourself actually needs to tell you that you don't need to continue in this way, but to take a serious look at the results and tell the citizens – is, what's done well, done well. There's something you haven't done well. Here's a suggestion on how to do it better. Now, this would build constructive trust in citizens, and we would all work together to make Serbia move faster and faster and that the sooner we have the better quality of life for citizens. Fortunately, Serbia is a democratic country, so that each individual citizen of Serbia can comment on the results of the elections. A Serbian citizen does not have to participate in these elections to be commented by the election, honourable MP. So that I, also as Prime Minister, and that I am not the Prime Minister, as a citizen of Serbia, have the right to comment on the results of the elections. I'm particularly pleased that you've been paying attention to the fact that there are no members of the Serbian government here, members of my cabinet. I will remind you, just as I reminded a national MP that in a democratic country such as Serbia, the president does not decide who will be the minister, it is decided by the Assembly. I will remind you, too, that the Prime Minister is proposing personally, not the Government as a collective body, and that this is why it is completely rational, and I understand that you may be acting rationally, but that it is perfectly rational for me to tell my ministers, this is my job today, and I, as Prime Minister, have proposed to Sinisha Malo for the Minister of Finance, and you are going and doing your job. Do you know how long a day is? Do you know what a productive minister can do in one day? And it is much better for the citizens of Serbia that they are on their jobs today, at meetings, so that tomorrow they already have some result, not sitting here, unable to say anything. Well, I've proposed to Sinisha Little. I have arguments to defend Sinisha Little. Why would the entire government sit here all day, instead of working all day, 10, 12 hours, in the interest of the citizens? So it's not an indicator of my political power and their disrespect. It is an indicator of a rational team, a real team, focused solely on results for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And when you talk about my political power and that I don't have political power, I sincerely thank you for caring about it and caring about my political power, but I'll tell you that you're not right here, even now. These people here, most in the Assembly, appreciate the results. My government, not me, but my team, has results. That's why I have their support. Their support for me means political power. So, one hour of democracy, one hour at a time. When you talk to me about low-paid jobs, Meita is the first-opened factory in Belgrade in 10 years. The net salary in "Meita" Obrenovac is 650 euros. It's not much and it's going to be better, but please don't tell me that it's a little bit, because again, it's not like you left Switzerland and that people had 1,500 euros' salaries and today they have a net salary of 418 euros. And the net salary of 418 euros is more than the salaries in Serbia and 2010, in 2012. As for public debt, Sinisa Mali talked about the total debt of Belgrade. He accounted for the debt of the city, the debts of public enterprises and the debts of city municipalities, as well as debts that were not kept in Belgrade's books, debts for outstanding obligations towards pregnant women, debts for unpaid maternity obligations and debts for outstanding liabilities to social institutions. Debts are debts. This had to be worth it, so it was the debt that Sinisha Mali had to count as the responsible mayor and then pay back. Once again, for Serbian citizens, to see how intellectual dishonesty we are talking here. You are calling for a report from the European Commission that speaks for Western Balkan countries that are captured states. For the Western Balkan countries, the report, I think, in a term – the captured countries certainly do not refer to Serbia. The same report, which you are referring to, says that Serbia is the absolute economic champion in the region and the country that has made the most reforms and positive shifts in the economy, and then either you refer to the whole report and say, well, people, every honor you, in the economy you've done a lot, we're the best in the region, bravo, but you need to do more in the rule of law. Either because of your intellectual honesty you are calling for a full report or do not call for a report, but do not choose what you will call for in that report, because if you want to say that Serbia is a captive state and you agree with that report, then you accept that Serbia is an economic leader and champion in the region. Just for intellectual honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37418	Does Radoslav Milojic still want a word or not? Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37419	Thank you, President. I'm advocating Article 108 that the order of the Assembly is yours, i.e. Chairman. I don't know if you've heard that Serbia's Filipovic has said a series of insults, slanders and abusive words about the opposition's MPs, and that's not the first time. Of course, he was led by what the Prime Minister has been doing all morning and all day. We can talk about anything here. We can talk about the results as well, but we can't let that happen, you can't all let that happen, and we're not going to let anyone call any MP a bogeyman. That is unacceptable, in addition to everything the Prime Minister has said that has no political legitimacy to sit in this place. There is only one political legitimacy, and it itself does not believe that SNS MPs voted for it. They voted because that's what Alexander Vukitch told them. As soon as he needs to talk about his political strength, it means he's...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37420	No replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37421	Without a replica, please really use article 108 and attitude 1 and 2 and give a warning or warning to Serbia's Filipovic, since anyone on this side should say something that is true gets a warning if you don't like it from the SNS, let alone that someone calls someone a bozo which is not our level. Of course, we don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37422	I accept I was wrong. I hereby extend the measure to the MP for harshly insulting the MPs to the MPs' groups. Let's move on. Replica, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37423	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. So, when we are Mrs. Brnabic in intellectual honesty, not only do you speak the opposite of what the Fiscal Council says and former Minister Vujovic, who is here in front of all of us, asking whether Belgrade is in charge of a billion and 200 million or 395, said 395. There's no total debt, there's a methodology for calculating debt. It's the same everywhere in the world, and I'd like to ask you and your candidate for Minister of Finance to master that methodology somehow and to teach it anyway. When it comes to corruption and the fight against corruption, you have not said a single word to me, and I must tell you that I am disappointed that you have failed and "Savamalu" and how proud you are of it and how the "Savavala" was destroyed. On the other hand, when it comes to fighting corruption, Belgrade today looks like Pancic's summit. Wildly built flowers everywhere, and you as Prime Minister are telling me it's in accordance with the rule of law. You're telling me that "Savavala" has collapsed according to the rule of law. You're telling me that your ministers, existing ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, are really living off their salary. Speaking of intellectual honesty, tell me how and in what way do you think a few ministers from your government are under suspicion of plagiarizing their PhDs in order and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't want to say a word about it? Years ago, you have a minister of police, are you proud of Megatrend as a university, did the commission also vote his doctorate?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37424	Thank you, two minutes. Thank you, MP. Is one of the authorities coming forward or should I move on to the list? Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37425	The respected chairman and respected representatives of the government, the respected citizens of Serbia, is helping all. I may seem surprising to you when I say, here, even though I come from the ranks of the opposition, I think the proposal for a future finance minister is absolutely in place. Let me explain. Starting with my coworker Sinishi Mali, who I like, because it has this old-fashioned style, which reminds me incredibly of the film "Kum" Francis Ford Kopola, and so, yes, here, who knows which way to high state functions people who have nothing to do with the Serbian Progressive Party come to have nothing to do with it. Therefore, it is doubtless the ability, as Mr Siniši Malia and Ana Brnabić to come to the highest state functions, past the party in power without having days of any political activity in the party. And then there's one painful question for me -- is it possible that the SNS doesn't have any of its SNS candidates as finance minister? What does the SNS Economic Council do, for example, where there are respectable and serious people? Is it possible that in six years, you can't surprise any of the SNS personnel, but you have to constantly reach out to people from the parallel system of government in Serbia, people who never checked their authority in the elections, people who come in private, and I would say some foreign lines, who certainly don't come from the SNS lines? So which of the SNS and SPS supporters would vote for you if he knew that Ana Brnabic would be Prime Minister and Sinisa Mali Minister of Finance? Well, hardly any of those who are members of the SNS and the SPS. They voted for something else, and they got this. What's very interesting and characteristic here is that you constantly and I absolutely support you in that, calling for someone to ruin the state of Serbia before you came to power. I agree with that, that we understand each other. And, here, you've been fixing for six years what someone has ruined before you. But there's one little thing, who was it before you? Was it the SPS you're in power with now? Was it Alexander Woolin with whom you are now in power? Were you, too, decorated with Alexander Vuker in the '90s, in power and ruining this country? Well, then those who have been here since 2000 and who sit with you in power, like Dragan Markovic Palma, like Rasim Ljajic, have they ruined this country, so now you're fixing it? Just so the citizens know exactly who you mean when you say they've ruined you before. I think you're thinking of some of your current coalition partners, and you're right, you're absolutely right. But here we come to the most interesting part of the story, your candidate for finance minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali is a symbol of that authority that you are fighting. He is a symbol of the robbery power after October 5th, which destroyed domestic economy, domestic banking and all that was the economic domestic interest of the Serbian state. So, if you're against the yellow company, what do you call it, if you're against that authority before 2012, so how is the man who is the symbol of that government, who was the assistant minister of the economy in 2001, who was the director of the Privatisation Centre within that ministry in 2001 to 2003, today you suggest, believe it or not, for what? For the finance minister. And here are the photos from that year 2001, Sinisa Mali, Mirko Cvetkovic and Aleksandar Vlahovic, then headed by the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation in Serbia. Those robbery privatisations that you rightly point out here every time she was a gravedigger of the Serbian economy. Please explain first to your members, members of the SNS and the SPS why you choose Serbian economies today as finance ministers? It's not a matter of fake diplomas and there's a Mr. Sinisha Mali symbol of your authority and you need to come to this place, because if you're already favoring those with purchased diplomats and PhDs that are plagiarized, he's a great candidate. So from that point of view, he deserves to come to that place. I have already said and I will repeat, our Prime Minister Ana Brnabic was caught here today telling the truth, that at a time when Mr. Sinisa Mali was headed by the Centre for Tenders and the entire privatisation process from 2001 to 2003, means complete legislation, robbery privatisation, the full application of the robbery privatisation is the work of your future finance minister. We heard from the Prime Minister that he wasn't involved in any troublesome privatisation at the time. Then it turned out that at the time Sartid was privatised, "Evening news", "Keramika" Kanjiza, "Yugormedia" and other controversial robbery privatisations. Who did that? Sinisha Mali. Next time, please, when you seek the responsibility of those who have destroyed the state before you, please report to your future finance minister. Now we come to the next problem. I wouldn't go back to those 300 university professors who are asking for the annulment of the Ph.D. of Sinishi Mali's doctorate, all the evidence that speaks of that that no commission at university level has ever been formed to check his doctorate, which is also false, what the Prime Minister was saying on the subject, what's important, Mr. Mali is indeed a case for tenders, from that time on, of the yellow company, he's actually studied how tenders for New Year's lighting are organised, as for trees of 83,000 euros. So, he came prepared for the functions you put him on. He studied school at DS time and applied in practice at SNS time. He is the symbol of this symbiosis of your former and present regime. He should therefore come to the post of finance minister, because this is proof of what we are saying, that nothing in Serbia has changed and that those who previously ruled and destroyed, here they come again, rule and destroy. That's why I support his choice, because it's going to expose your lies in the sense that you've brought something new and you've now changed something, and the same personnel that have destroyed the state are now your personnel. Of course, what's very interesting here is when Mr. Sinisha Mali answered the question of what he pays 60,000 euros a year to his children's tuition and said that it's funded by some of his friends abroad, which is legitimate, you have friends who finance your children's tuition. The only thing you didn't tell me was who your friends were. So I would like to ask a question – that it is not one of those friends and Stanko Subotić Cane, one of the founders of SNS, who you were otherwise a consultant at his company "Futura Plus", if I am not wrong, and you confirm whether it is true or not? If it weren't for Stanko Subotić Cane, who was prosecuted for the smuggling of cigarettes in this country before coming to the power of the SNS, and upon the arrival of the SNS to the authorities, perhaps the source of political power through which you come slowly to certain functions in this society, the first mayor of Belgrade, and now the minister of finance, past the SNS, who never proposed you to any function, To prove it, here's the best example. The only thing we heard from the Prime Minister as an argument that you become finance minister is your result in Belgrade. And I'm telling you -- you're ashamed of your mayor, Belgrade, because you didn't even put him first on the local city election list for the elections in Belgrade and now you're taking him off the mayor's seat, because if he had worked well, you'd probably have left him another term to finish that good job. No, but now he's going to go from there to somewhere else, because he was doing a good job. So why did you put the public figures of Dr. Zoran Radojicic and others on the head of that list when you had such a top mayor? So because you were ashamed of Sinishi Mali and hiding behind public figures, otherwise you would have called your local city list at the elections in Belgrade Serbian Progressive Party – Dr Siniša Mali, and I didn't see anything that you called her, because she is neither a doctor nor a praiser nor proud of him, but you are hiding behind public figures and of course Alexander Vukic. What is very characteristic of the rich biography of the robbery privatisations of the future finance minister is one of the first privatisations of the "Bratstvo" car factory from Subotica, which in a very nice way in his time sold, imagine who, to your father, to whom. Then, after only a few years, the company failed, and they pulled out the money, gave mortgages to certain potentials of the factory and made a fortune, and returned property to the state over this factory from Subotica and it is just one of hundreds of failed privatisations in Serbia. Now a man who and his father couldn't manage a company he privatised in a highly suspicious way during his time as a consultant, or director at the Privatisation Agency, should be a finance minister, and the company he and his family privatized has led to bankruptcy, annulment of privatisation and return to state property, so that the state can see what's going to do with it. I hope that won't happen when he stops being the finance minister to give us back the state of Serbia, so we can see what we can do with it after his term. There were, of course, a lot of words here about all sorts of interesting things when it comes to the rich biography of Mr. Cynthia Malloy, about having 45 bank accounts, that 17 of them were kept in his name, and 21 in his wife's name. Just for what, Mr. Future Minister, do you need 45 bank accounts? What do you do, do you do? Now, that's such an interesting subject and you could say a word about it. How did you, for example, pay 67,000 euros in cash in cash on November 15, 2012? How did your wife put 125,000 euros in cash into her bank account from 2006 to 2013, that you never explained the origin of your property, that you never explained the origin of that cash? That's the problem of the Serbian state. We don't have a law on the origin of the political and tycoon property, which you promised six years ago, and, look, it's gone. Why? Well, because the first one would have to be Sinisha Small, the subject of an investigation into the origin of the property and this cash. Of course, we have already heard about offshore companies, about 24 apartments in Bulgaria, the truth, we have not heard about these three apartments in the luxury complex "Oaza" in downtown Belgrade. Maybe the Prime Minister can tell us something about where Mr. Sinisha got three luxury apartments in downtown Belgrade. Probably from the mayor's salary of 100,000 dinars, I guess, or maybe as you saved up in the meantime, so like you, you bought an apartment of half a million euros in Dedinj, and you're paid only 100,000 dinars, so I guess you're paying back a credit war of 150,000 dinars, from that salary of 100,000 dinars. So, let's finally finally determine the origin of the political property, here, I'm the first to be the subject of that law, and then everyone else. So let's see where you get the money from, where you get the ministers' money, where you get the hundreds of thousands in cash you put in the bank, or, as Mr. Sinisha Mali explained nicely, that his wife inherited it from her father, found cash in some drawer and family legacy. So who can believe those fairy tales, Mr. Mali? Who can believe those fairy tales? In your time, you even got a gift from the state land that was later transferred to Panchev by the Commercial Court to return to the state, because you took 10 hectares of state agricultural land and started producing on it. So wait, let's all take up state agricultural land, start producing on it. Or only Sinisha Mali and his family in this country can do it. They say tycoons. It is, by the way, one of my favorite political parts of the SNS programme. President Aleksandar Vukic says, in his time -- the problem in Serbia is Miskovic and his tycoons. Then at the celebration of 25 years, Delta, an honorary place next to Miroslav Miskovic, do you recognize who he is? Sinisa Mali, future finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. So wait, are the tycoons and Miskovic the problem? I don't understand anymore. Or is Miskovic good, as soon as you send Cynthia Little, your main man, to sit in the honorable seat at the Delta Holding celebration? Or is Miskovic bad, so he should end up in jail? But he can't do both. Miskovic cannot serve for Alexander Vukic's commercial and fight the tycoon, and then send Sinisha Malia to the celebration of 25 years of Delta Holding and sit in the honour seat next to Miroslav Miskovic. Wait, guys, a little schizophrenic, you'll admit it. So, what's the problem here, the problem is that our Prime Minister, Ana Brnabić, too, did business with Sinish Mali, in his time, even had a joint firm founded in 2015, "Energy and Innovation", with controversial Belgrade lawyer Igor Isailovic, the most trusted lawyer of Sinishi Mali, who participated in all his business activities. So, not only were they schoolmates, Brnabic and Mali, they had joint firms from which they were now withdrawing to pretend they had nothing to do with it and that we couldn't then discover the origin of their cash that they were putting into banks. We can't, because we don't have a law on the investigation of the origin of the property, which you won't bring for six years. But it would be interesting if you could explain your business activities together. Or, for example, to explain to us the contribution of Cynthia the Little, believe it or not, to dozens of boards of directors in which he was sitting and sitting today, in dozens of boards of boards of directors. Check this out, Sinisa Mali, chairman of the Management Board in "Fiat Cars of Serbia", chairman of the Management Board at the Commercial Bank, member of the Management Board of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, currently chairman of the Er Serbia Supervisory Board. Mr. Mali, you're a superman. You have so much time that you can run all these companies, be the chairman of the board of directors and supervisors everywhere, that you work in private, that you're rich. Let me tell you in the end why you returned to Serbia. Because in Serbia, it can be easier to steal than it can in the west and you can't get rich in the speed you got rich in Serbia. That's why you came back, not because you love Serbia. You love money that can be robbed by this people and the state through the monopoly of those who are in power. Don't just tell me about Belgrade and your successes in Belgrade. Here, let me give you an example of 295 million dinars from the current government of Serbia's current budget reserve to fulfil the obligations of the City of Belgrade due to the reduced revenue volume of last year's budget. Three times you received money from the government, in October 110m dinars, in December 185m dinars, plus you got hundreds of new employees and how many extraordinary social aids to buy elections in Belgrade City. So these are your results and I agree with that. So, I am in your capacity to come to power and to bring money from various monopoly and political schemes and combinations I have no doubt. So from that point of view, you really should be what they suggest you are. But why do you have to be? That's the final key question. Here are photos of the front page of the Croatian weekly "Globus" titled "Siniša Mali Vukiev number one". Namely, an interview with you by famous Croatian publicist Darko Hudelist, when you became mayor of 2014, and I will remind you of what is the largest of all Serbs, Aleksandar Vukic, said of Darko Hudelist: "Darko Hudelist is not a liar, Darko Hudelist is, for people who do not know, the most famous Croatian publicist". In an interview with the most famous Croatian publicist, you said one genius thing, that you became president, i.e. The mayor of Belgrade, thanks to Andrej Vukic, brother of Alexander Vukic, recommended you. Not the SNS, not the main board, the SNS presidency, but a man with no function. So as you said in that interview, I quote: “The point is that Vuker’s born brother Andrej and my younger brother Predrag Peja were best friends, and I always helped them. “ Okay, great, so this is a counterservice. Yeah, so now I understand why you're running for finance. You helped them with something, so they gave you back by making you mayor of Belgrade and now Minister of Finance. Maybe the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, could say something about Predrag Malo, better than me talking about it. What's the conclusion of the story, you come from a parallel power center in this country, you don't come from a political system. You are proposed by the brother of the president of the state and sent to certain functions, not even the president of the state, but by his brother who is a good friend of your brother. Well, they even got beat up by the gendarmes together on that one gay parade where you two showed up together, as supporters of promoting the ideology of homosexuality in Serbia. The key question for the end is – where is your program? How are you going to solve the problem of damaged workers in the robbery privatisations for which you are responsible? How are you going to solve the problem of bank robbery and special credit indexed in Swiss francs? How are you going to solve the problem that our budget money is finally going to domestic economy and agriculture, not foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37426	Rules of Procedure, Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37427	I thank the chairman. A roughly injured member of both attitudes concerning dignity. So, for a long time, almost all day, some MPs have apparently been using the fact that the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, does not allow Sinishi Malo to get his word and use it very persistently, very heroicly, very bravely, all the worst things they can think of about Mr Sinisha Malo, counting on him not to get the word to say something in his defense. It reminds me, we had a situation, and when we were here in the lobby watching some press conferences, that's where they make some models, Vucic's pictures, etc., then in the absence of Vucicev, they bring things up and say things, and then when Vucic came to the National Assembly, they escape to a place that my dears. So at the speed of light they just disappear from the National Assembly. I find it interesting, however, to me, that waving paper a little earlier, would be the same paper that was waved at by one of the MPs belonging to Jeremic's so-called so-called. The clan, apparently it's some new co-operation at the pier, apparently the previous speaker smelled where the money is, so now he's trying to get closer to Jeremic. I'll remind you that's how he tried to get close to us. I will now show therefore, for your sake, on 27 April 2016, we are ready to co-operate with the SNS, Bosko Obradović, head and beard. How come you didn't mind Alexander Vukic, how come you didn't mind the SNS then, how come Andrej Vukic didn't bother you at the time, how come Sinisha Mali didn't bother you? Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37428	Anna Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37429	Thank you. I must say, you've surprised me quite a bit with this remark about Sinisha's clothes and the way he dresses up the small one. I haven't noticed it, and somehow I don't know how to interpret that you've given so much attention to the look of Cynthia Little, but I want to tell you that I personally support all such emotions. Now I've been paying attention and she's really dressed up like a Sinisha, but I haven't noticed that before. I'll also let you know, if you don't know, that Sinisha is a small member of the SNS and not only a member, but also a member of the SNS presidency, so it doesn't seem that people can't find one of their own, it's far from that. But you should also learn about identifying the results and not being the most important person in the world whether or not it is a party member, but how it works in Serbia's interest. I see, again I was surprised and last time or last time I was in the Assembly, you were taking great care of the SNS, the SNS voters. Do this if your voters knew they wouldn't vote if they knew it was Anna Brnabic they wouldn't vote if they knew it wasn't for Sinisha. It's touching to me that you're taking care of SNS and SNS voters again, but it seems to me again, and I've already told you, my really, here's the best advice, that you try to take care of your voters and your party, because I'm afraid you'll disappear, and that's not good for democracy. It's important that you focus on it. Also, don't share a SNS lesson on how to go to local elections, who to be the bearer of the list, who to be a team, what to call it and so on, but again my advice, ask people for advice on what to do. That's one way to end up having MPs in the local congregation. You said yourself about bankruptcy and the privatisation agency. You are one of the few who has made it clear that Sinisha was not the director of the Privatisation Agency, but the Centre for tender privatisations. You're right about that. And then you started talking about the controversial privatisations of Sartida, Jugormedia and so on, but you may not know that these were auction privatisations or bankruptcys that had nothing to do with the tender privatisations that were headed by Sinisha Mali as director of the Competition Privatisation Centre. There, just look at that. I was amazed that Sinisha Mali and I had a joint venture. And today I realized I had a firm that I didn't know I had. I'm going home tonight and I'm going to check right... Sinisha when we built the company? And how profitable is it? I don't know, but I'll ask you, please send me information about a company I have in common with Cynthia Mali, because I've never built a company in my life with Cynthia, but okay, it doesn't matter, it's capable, I believe our company will be fine. And boards and boards of directors, all of which you mentioned, and those who write transparently about the biography of Synchronism, I have to tell you, when things are put into biography, they're not all at the same time. So when you read someone's biography and you say that man graduated from primary school, high school, college, master's degree and doctorate, it's not all at the same time. So Sinisa Mali was not at the same time chairman of the Management Board of Commercial Banks, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Supervisory Board of Er Serbia. I believe you know, but again for your good story, somehow it doesn't add up, so let's just stuff it together. You mean, she might hate me to answer everything, but like I told you in the morning, she won't hate me, we'll sit here as long as it takes to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what it's really about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37430	Alexandra Tomic, replica. National MP Aleksandra Tomic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37432	I thank the chairman. What's important to say today is that the previous speaker does not really distinguish how the City Assembly works and how political parties function. Political parties in their bodies have the main committee, the presidency and the party's assembly. Mr. Sinisha Mali is a member of the SNS presidency. There is no way you can put him in the context of the fact that by nature things came to be mayor and elected to the City Assembly by making a political decree. The mayors are elected by the Council of the City. It was enough to get 50% plus one vote and to be elected by the council of the City Hall as mayor. Therefore, it is an unknown political life in which the previous speaker, who wanted to and several times apostropheed the SNS, commenting that some suit stands or does not stand, wanting to offend him in the worst possible way, so to identify him with certain mobsters, but we find it very interesting that some Librarian from Cacca brings such comments here in the Assembly with a desire to dress up as a Russian tycoon, but you will never get away with this idea because there is no way that you can fool Serbian citizens. They know that you were with Gilas and in 2012, they know that you will be now, they know that you will be taking from both Americans and Russians what for your projects, cheating on people in Hilandar for a few thousand euros. People know, simply, that you cheat on them and will never support such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37433	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37434	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Ministers of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, first of all, I want to say that I think it is very important that this debate today, bearing in mind the importance and importance of the topic we are talking about, we all try together to translate from the field of politics into the field of democratic debate and democratic confrontation of opinions and arguments. No one disputes, it is legitimately the right of every political option, the parliamentary groups to express their political views, to present certain political assessments on different issues, but the two things here are absolutely undeniable. The first thing, when it comes to the politics of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has been mentioned many times today. So the citizens of Serbia have clearly defined and confirmed the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy in a series of election cycles that are behind us. On the other hand, when it comes to the results of the city's government's work in Belgrade between 2014 and 2018, when it comes to the results of Sinisha Mali's work as mayor, citizens said what they think in the Belgrade elections, which were also not long ago. And when it comes to the Republic and when it comes to Belgrade, citizens say they want political stability and continuity policy. Today we are talking about one of, with all due respect to all other resors, the most significant resors in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I would not view this discussion in a simplified way today. This is an opportunity to talk about the finance minister's candidate, I hope the future finance minister, his references, the results of the work. This is an opportunity for us to also talk about the results of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the reform processes that have been under way in Serbia since 2014, but this is also an opportunity to talk about the objectives that the Government in the area of economy and finance wants to achieve in the next period of time. On the other hand, why not, this is an opportunity through a democratic debate and a face-to-face view of whether there is an alternative to the reform course of the Government of Serbia, whether there is a path for Serbia in the area of economy and finance to go in the next period of time, a path that will be a guarantee of better and faster economic and economic growth and an opening of new jobs and a better standard of living, and that is not what you, Mrs Brnabic, said, a path that would be a list of good wishes, a path that if citizens wanted to hear, which would sound nice, and if it were realized, it would be a path that would lead to financial collapse and financial bankruptcy. The Socialist Party of Serbia is part of the ruling coalition. We share the value and responsibility when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we will support the candidate for the finance minister's proposal, above all, because of the results the candidate has achieved by acting as mayor of Belgrade. When I say the results, I mean the financial consolidation of Belgrade, I mean the financial consolidation of public enterprises, public-communal enterprises. Belgrade today, as the prime minister said in the opening statement, is the most attractive investment destination in this part of Europe and that is what is most important to us. The second thing, by supporting the candidate for finance minister's proposal, is once again we want to give clear and unequivocal support to the government of the Republic of Serbia in implementing reform processes, results that are visible and recognizable and which citizens are worth the right way. Of course, you have our full support in the goals that the government wants in the next period to realise when it comes to finance and economy, because we know that the realisation of these objectives depends on the realisation of a number of other key objectives, the declared objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia must certainly not miss a chance to develop, reform. When we talk about finance, economics, fiscal discipline, key words in the period ahead of us must be reforms, growth, development and modernisation and change. We recognize the sincere determination and willingness of the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue to fix everything that was not good in the area of economy and finance, to lead an active policy, an active policy in the sense of meeting problems, to see them rightly, to offer a response to solutions, a real solution that will be in the best interest of the citizens of Serbia. Of course, it's important to always raise the scale, always to set new tasks, especially when it comes to the sector that you're going to be leading in the next period of time. This is important for Serbia's future, because the essence is Serbia's future. As a matter of fact, since 2014, when the foundations of the reform processes were laid, no one has dealt in such a determined and courageous way. The government as the ruling coalition of works, brave and determined economic measures, but unpopular, has shown that it is there not because of parties that form the ruling coalition, the ratings of parties that form the ruling coalition, but primarily because of Serbian citizens. What is fundamentally important to us is that Serbia continues to make a strong economic progress, that the work, work, energy and commitment made visible and positive results, that the reform processes, whose foundations, as I said, were set in 2014 and whose results are always positive and above the targets set for the current year, are very clear in favour of the finding that the government's reform course has no alternative. So reforms to make Serbia a healthy country above all economically. Public finances are safe and stable and after a long period of time we with optimism and with certainty can look at the period ahead. When it comes to the period behind us, from the moment the reform process began, from 2014 to today we are convinced that the most difficult period has passed, that the hardest part of the job has been done. What's important now is, in our opinion, correct me if I'm wrong, to benefit from it in the future in the right way, but to safeguard hard-earned fiscal achievements and to support all those initiatives that promote growth and development. It is very important for us that we have fully realised the two objectives, which is a reduction in the debt in GDP and a reduction in the budget deficit. Last year, Serbia ended up with a surplus. The planned deficit below 1% at the level of the world's most developed countries this year, at 43rd place on the Duing Business List. Just before the reform process began, we were 91st in ten countries to the success of the reform processes implemented in Serbia and this is something recognised by relevant international financial institutions. It is something for which Serbia is respected and respected, and that is something that opens the door today to Serbia and around the world. Today, economic indicators and parameters were also discussed, and it is up to us to mention them. When it comes to the average net earnings for March, it was 418 euros, while in the same month of 2017 it was 386 euros. When it comes to unemployment, unemployment rates are down from almost 26% to 13% today, and youth unemployment from about 51 to around 33. Real GDP growth in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period of the previous year was 4.5%. The minimum labour price in 2016 was 121 dinar, in 2017 was 130, and from 1 January 2018 the minimum labour price was 140 dinar net. When it comes to raising wages and pensions, I'm going to do a few more sentences below, but the point is that the lower pension is a higher percentage of the increase. Public debt fell to 74.7% in 2015 to 59.9% this year, according to the Financial Times, Serbia tops the global competitiveness index in attracting foreign investment. Foreign direct investment in Serbia amounted to 436.9m euros for the first two months of this year, which is 21.8% so almost 22% more than in the period last year. Definitely political and economic stability, along with the incentive measures offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with efficiency when it comes to bureaucratic procedures, makes Serbia one of the most attractive countries in this part of Europe when it comes to investment. I said recently that Serbia had progressed from 47 to 43rd position of the Duing Business List, and just before the start and launch of the reform processes, with the establishment of the foundations of the reform processes in Serbia, it was 91st. Industrial production increased by 4.1% in March 2018 compared to March 2017 and increased by 6.8% compared to the average in 2017. These are some statistics and parameters. What is important to us is that Serbia must remain committed to improving the investment and business climate and Serbia must continue the reform course to continue with the structural reforms. Thanks, first of all, to the brave and determined but unpopular economic measures, we today, as we heard in the opening presentation of the Prime Minister, have a healthy system based on real foundations, a healthy system based on life and on economy, not on politics and a list of good wishes. And today it is quite clear that we were right at the moment when we talked about starting reform processes in Serbia, that we should not look at reform processes in Serbia in a simplified way in terms of kidnapping citizens. No, these were measures concerning Serbia's future, the future of each Serbian citizen, and these are certain today, we can say the measures concerning the overall preservation of public finances and I repeat the future of each Serbian citizen. The increase based on good economic indicators, today we have a good basis, a stable basis for increasing pensions and wages, an increase based on real and healthy foundations, so rationally and domestically, it has what was earned. It would be irresponsible and irresponsible to have a bigger one, when someone says it's too small for the pensioners, but it would be irresponsible and unserious to get more out of the budget and have a minus in the government register. We have an increase, and we have a plus in the state register. So, through one, I would say, a responsible and serious approach, I am talking about increasing pensions in Serbia, there has been the best solution. We must not go back to the period behind us, when it comes to economic indicators and parameters, and this is a balanced approach that protects those pensioners with the lowest pensions in Serbia, but on the other hand has a responsible relationship, retains a responsible relationship with those pensioners who have slightly higher incomes. It is good to hear the opinion of relevant international financial institutions, it is good that the IMF rightly looks at the results of the reform processes in Serbia, to properly value and recognise them, but when making these decisions we still need to take care of what is the interest of Serbian citizens. Why do I say that? Well, it seems to me that we have fully respected the IMF's position, we would not have the strength to repay all those who have reduced pensions and on the other hand to maintain a socially responsible relationship with the pensioners with the lowest incomes. In the end, then once again, we will, of course, support the candidate's proposal for the finance minister. The Honorable Prime Minister, unfortunately, is true, sometimes we feel that we are, with all due respect, in the newsroom of some tabloid, not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And the finance minister is not elected through Twitter and social networks, but based on results. We respect the results and therefore give support. We believe that in the era of day-to-day political events, daily attempts by some alleged affairs, each should do its job, it is important that these results are visible and it is important that the citizens of Serbia properly value them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37435	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37436	I thank the chairman. Dear Prime Minister, dear fellow MPs, today we have a chance to ask a few questions when the agenda theme is the selection of the finance minister. These questions, I think, were opened by the prime minister herself when she presented a proposal relating to Mr. Sinisha Malloy, which is what qualified the candidate to perform such an important function, and secondly, what awaits him and what is it that the future finance minister should do. When we talk about what is qualified by Mr. Sinisha Malloy, then first of all, these are the results. We had a lot to hear about these results, first of all, that the debt was halved when we talk about the City Assembly, that the consolidated finances in the Belgrade city's budget, when it comes to the deficit reduction, are four times lower, when it comes to reducing unemployment, should be said that for the past four years, 25,500 people have been employed in Belgrade, so that the unemployment rate is falling at a high rate of speed. When it comes to changing the investment environment, much has changed. So, first we're talking about building permits that are issued in the record 12 days, but it should be said that in the last year alone, in 2017, construction permits were issued worth one million squares. What should be said is that the number of squares of building permits issued over the previous four years is even reaching a record number of two million square meters. We are also talking about the results of strategic projects, such as the construction of Ikea, such as the construction of the "Belgrade on Water", which has launched the complete economy of Serbia, but I am also talking about the opening of the production capacities of the "Meita" factory in Obrenovac, and we are talking about finally getting the right purpose of science and technology parks. The institutions that really need to bring together young people in one place, the trust in brains and knowledge and try to put themselves into office in Serbia's economy, apparently succeeded in the mayor's hand and his team in Belgrade, now that 64 companies are working and making even 14m euros a year profit. These are the figures that Serbian citizens really need to be satisfied with, and young people who finish colleges, simply get information and a message about the state thinking about them and that it's much easier to work here with their colleagues in scientific and technological parks. Of course, we have also announced the construction of a new Borca Science and Technology Park and this was one of the announcements of the strategic projects of the city of Belgrade for the future in co-operation with Chinese, China and their representatives of the university, which should employ 10,000 young experts. What is important to say is that Mr. Sinisa Mali has shown himself on such demanding tasks, when it comes to the budget in general, and I will tell you that the budget of the city of Belgrade is 40% of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, if, in addition to all the debts, there is, of course, always a substitute for the thesis that was an attempt at that session, when Mr Vujovic spoke about public debt and how much real debt there is and how much public debt there is, there is always this replacement of the thesis and the attempt of individuals from opposition parties to show that someone is simply lying in all of this, but the figures don't lie. So someone had to pay back the debts. Belgrade had to pay back the pregnant women's money, had to pay back and social contributions. The city of Belgrade had to pay out of its budget with local self-government to which it owed money, it had to pay, simply, interest on loans raised by those who ran an irresponsible policy. The Serbian Progressive Party has entered an empty house in both the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade's budget. There was nothing in that empty house, there was nothing left but debts, there were other loans, and there was nowhere else to be owed. So, the point of all economic reforms and fiscal consolidation was that by creating a new environment, you have to open up the possibility for foreign investors to want to come to Serbia and invest and to reduce the costs to one reasonable extent, to get the budget from which you earn, you can spend. When we talk about macro-economic indicators now, it's an ambiance waiting for the finance minister. The finance minister comes to arranged finances that required the four-year daily hard work of the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Mr. Vukic. Until then, until Mr. Vukic came, the results simply didn't exist. So, the story of bankruptcy isn't some story that happened out there, but it happened every day here in Serbia, in our lives, in our wallets. And everybody knew that, and those 400,000 people that were out of jobs, from companies that were in privatisation and bankruptcy, and those that were in the so-called. restructuring, but also those who lost their jobs because they had nowhere to work, because simply, the state financed all economic activities in the state. That's because she simply gave the Republic of Serbia's tycoons budget management. This is how countries that do not exist in the system of functioning of the application of laws passed by the National Assembly, and when governments and ministers are appointed by tycoons, not the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia. What's important is to say when it comes to macroeconomic economic indicators, it's that 2016 ended with a growth of 2.8%. It is true that economic growth for 2017 has been much smaller, 1.9%, but we will not forget that climate change has led to high costs in the energy sector, that there have been major declines in agriculture due to high droughts. In addition, the state completed a budget with a surplus of 33.9 billion dinars. Now in 2018, we now have a 4.5% growth by 1 May. What does that show? This shows that Serbia has found itself together with four countries that are side by side by side of business. This shows that Hungary comes first, then Slovakia, then the Czech Republic and then Serbia. So the big shifts in this part are done. So 12.1 billion euros is what's meant as a surplus, so we've been making more income than we've been spending. Of course, Serbia has very big problems that remain from the time when those who respect us today are the state and the budget to be managed by others, there are many other costs for paying the judgments that have been made because one irresponsible government has led the state and has not cared about who will pay these debts. There are many debts left, when it comes to different separations for certain categories of society. What's important is that it's stopped. It was stopped by introducing a tax discipline, by opening new jobs, new factories that give new value, and what the finance minister will have to face in the future, is that it has ahead of it the realisation of large strategic projects, such as creating conditions to start building the subway. Then, strategic projects, which I think are already finished with certain technical and technological documentation when we talk about the construction of a waste management system, for the construction of waste water management, because this is in the 2018 budget of 450m euros. Then, it should be tackled by the continuation of European financial integration, when it comes to Chapter 32, that is external supervision, supervision of public finances. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia brought in 2015, when the prime minister was Mr. Vucic, this programme of public finance management from EU funds and this programme of economic reforms that Mr. Vujovic really started and moved the borders, which is precisely about the Ministry of Finance, the Finance Committee, the DRI are together on this task, that we have a shift in public opening, the spending of public funds precisely to introduce stricter discipline when it comes to public finances and we have the part where tax administration reform is concerned, where certainly a large number of units, when it comes to tax administration, will be reorganised. It's going to be a very demanding job, but we're used to it as a high-level state, big tasks. I think it's proven so far, Madam Prime Minister, that we can carry all these tasks regardless of the weight. I wouldn't repeat my biography because we had a lot of opportunities to hear, but what's most important is to say that when it comes to doctorate and the subject of plagiarism, it's simple, repeating such topics to establish a lie, because plagiarism and doctorate, before it comes to the defense itself by the commission itself, has to go twice, a minimum, a teacher's bigger and a single Senate of universities. Well, if all the teachers of the Senate's teaching council said it wasn't plagiarism and let the candidate defend that doctorate, then surely he can't make a decision that there's plagiarism. It can happen that there are certain parts in terms of technical and technological not being made of some footnote, but it does not represent any kind of plagiarism. Therefore, if a professor of Belgrade University, who disagrees with the fact that something is not plagiarism, in contrast to a large number of professors it is appropriate to make such a decision in public, then it shows that certain affairs are actually paid to keep the public spinning and attempt to degrade an individual who is just like Sinisha Mali. I think the biggest problem is that he's really quality and like a man and able to work and deal with great tasks. We've had opportunities from foreign investors to hear that they've never had a more efficient, more valuable and educated mayor who really has a system of decision-making in a very creative, efficient way. That's why we have 104 hotels in Belgrade today, and at the time of 2012, it was only 64. Therefore, simply, when we talk about Mr Sinisha Mali's candidacy, it should be said that it is a good proposal, that support from all SNS MPs has not only because he is a member of the SNS presidency, but because he is the best quality for such a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37437	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The first speaker, Muamer Zukorlic, is not here. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37438	Thank you. Today, the government is running for Mr. Sinisha Malio for Minister of Finance, presenting references from his biography and successes in Belgrade's leadership, but successes in managing the city and leading fiscal policy of the state are not the same as calling for trust that is given to the city's leadership by the voters, as well as references to selectively expressed biography. None of it's the future minister's plan. And the challenges expected by the minister can be found, for example, in the analysis of the Fiscal Council. We have very little heard of plans to respond to these challenges, and I will present some of them, the key challenges of keeping the budget in the fiscal balance for the next five years, to reduce fiscal risks and encourage economic growth, because the success of fiscal consolidation is not the planned economic policy, savings and reforms, but the strong growth of public expenditures, and therefore we cannot be comparable to fiscal consolidation in Romania and the Baltic countries of the earlier years. More lasting results give those fiscal consolidations that are based, above all, on structural cuts in public expenditures, rather than on those based on our growth in public incomes. In addition, we also owe major positive effects to external factors, such as the drop in raw materials, oil and gas prices, which is already shown as a potential fiscal risk, as prices go up to $80 per barrel with a relatively strong dollar. The results are due and the interest rates drop and the recovery of the euro area, but the successes you have based on the benefits of economic cycles are unsustainable because the effects disappear when favourable macroeconomic circumstances reverse. The fiscal council also draws attention to the fact that our credit rating is further in the zone of speculative and non-investment, which is why we owe ourselves more than the countries in the region. You can say that of the tax code is allowed under our legislation, but because of this we will have a bad credit rating and have to plan more expensive borrowing and a lack of investment due to this speculative and non-investment rating that gives us the "Puri" standards and "Mudizi Fitch" GDP growth in 2017 is only 1.8% versus 4.5% in the region. Drought and EPS took about one percentage point, but without it it would have been insufficient. Our investments are at a level of only 3% of GDP, and they are lagging behind due to poor legal environment and insufficient rule of law. We have advanced the Duing Business List due to the process of issuing a building permit, but on the "Warld Justice Project" list we have receded due to violations of the legal environment. The austerity measures, primarily by reducing wages and pensions, were felt by citizens, and the planned reduction of employees in the general state also remained, 28,600 permanent employees went away, but 16,200 contract employees arrived at a certain time, so the net effect was no compared to the 75,000 plan, and the burden was borne by the private sector. The subsidies continue to constitute the basic pillar of the economic growth policy and investment financing. The candidate for the finance minister, as the holder of the IFA license, should know that undeveloped financial markets have a variety of other funding models, in addition to the subsidies "privitequities" funds, alternative investment funds, "vender capital" funds. It would be nice to hear and can it be expected in Serbia, and why is this not in Serbia? Also, to start economic growth on high expectations from the IT sector, we also think it is nice but not enough, as this IT sector participates in GDP with only 1.8% and exports with 3.8%. What the Fiscal Council recommends on fiscal policy for next year is to relax public expenditures, slightly increase them with a reduction in tax burden on the economy. Simply use a favourable conukture to stimulate economic growth. Salaries and pensions to increase in line with the nominal GDP growth, continue with a reduction in public debt and consequently interest costs and abolish payments to activate guarantees, all requiring public sector reform, which has so far been missing. Such a generated budget space is proposed to be used to reduce the tax burden on labour, above all, to the lowest earnings, to increase investment in public and municipal infrastructure, so let's say to increase investment in environmental protection, where we get an assessment of total discrepancies in the EU's accession process with over 3,500 wild deposits, with only 25% of waste deposited by EU standards, where we are a negative European recordr after joining the sewer network and where it is necessary to provide 600m euros of investment, which is 1.5% of GDP, and for which it would be very nice to hear a plan to get funds for such a thing through the budget. In addition, we expect some comments on the action plan of December 2017 for the implementation of the programme of transformation of the tax administration, which was adopted in June 2015, where it is said – that there is an irrational network of 178 branches, the absence of a modern and comprehensive IT system to monitor taxpayers for risk analysis, inadequate structure and professional profiles of employees, too many non-taxed secondary functions and over-experienced business practices. The tax administration is expected to continue the increased fiscal revenues the Fiscal Council says were one-off. These are some challenges for which I have the time of the parliamentary group at my disposal to present them. Unfortunately, we heard little today in this debate, except for the reference to selective biography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37439	Thank you. The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37440	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, at the beginning, Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the extraordinary results you have achieved for a little less than a year, thus proving the excellent decision of the President of the Republic, Mr Alexander Vukic, to entrust you with the mandate for the composition of the Government. I followed closely the questions of the opposition MPs and your answers, and I couldn't help but recall the people again – that a smart man means a stupid question and that a stupid man doesn't mean anything to a stupid man or a smart answer. It's really hard to explain to those with bad intentions here today, but for Serbian citizens, let's look at Serbia today. In the first quarter of 2017, a surplus of 6.5 billion dinars was reached. Serbia has increased resistance to external flows by improving the microeconomic environment and removing external and internal imbalances. Today, a responsible policy is being conducted in the interests of Serbian citizens and indeed quite different from that of the policy that was when they said the global economic crisis was a chance for Serbia and that Serbia would flourish during that period, during that period of government, and Serbia was never worse then. The fiscal deficit has been reduced. Full coverage of the current balance of payments deficit. The labour market has been significantly improved. For the first time in recent history, we have predictable and fiscal in monetary policy and that is reality. That's what the exact data is talking about. That's what you've talked about many times and my colleagues, but that's also what the world's most important institutions like the World Bank, the IMF and other prominent institutions are talking about. This is also mentioned by an increasing number of foreign investors who are very happy to invest in our country, and I will remind you that by 2012, the foreign investor was an imaginary concept. The reality is different from that demagogy that opposition MPs place in an attempt to deceive Serbian citizens. Every day we see through the media that they're talking about some kind of organization, some kind of front to unite. Against what? Against whom to unite? Against such results, perhaps, that Serbia today has? The citizens of Serbia, fortunately, are able to recognize hard work and work very well and separate it from those who ruled until 2012 and robbed this country and those whose finances these days are being arrested around the world, and who have been scattered about the cost of the state throughout America. Today, some who no longer know for themselves what they are called parliamentary groups, no one's party, or who is more the president of their political options. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will quote only one sentence recently spoken by Mr Miller, otherwise Vice-President of the World Bank for Europe and Central Asia, which he said – Serbia has made noticeable shifts on the path it took several years ago and needs to continue positive progress. Serbia is now better than ever has insight into real development opportunities. That's not what you said, not Mr. Alexander Wolfie, not us from the SNS. This is what the world's leading experts say. On the basis of all the positive results and trust that you have justified, I am convinced that this decision of yours, among other things, is excellent for the Minister of Finance. It's a man who has concrete results in his work, which we've heard about during this discussion, I don't want to count them, especially because a man has an extremely high quality, a man who was the best generation student at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, and on the list of speakers, well, fortunately, you'll have those who will speak after me and who have nothing finished from school, or some who have completed schools for which they haven't found fit to say where they ended up today. This is a man who, after college, mastered the U.S. and settled among 10% of the best students in the United States and then doctored, will undoubtedly continue to work to reduce public debt and return them to sustainable frameworks. Based on all these qualifications, your proposal, and only the fact that it halved the debt of the city of Belgrade and reduced the budget deficit of the city of Belgrade four times, I consider it sufficient that Mr. Sinisha Malogi recommends that he himself be the minister of finance. Since 2012, the government has worked hard and has managed to lay the foundations for sustainable and healthy public finances. These results can only be opposed by those who are today, who are against our country and who are not in the interest of its progress, who, fortunately, are a minority in this room. Therefore, on behalf of my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party and my personal name, I want to wish you a lot of success in the work and that those who hate good results give reasons here to hate them even more, and the citizens of Serbia will be happy about it, learns to rejoice and to appreciate the results that day after day raise their standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37441	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37442	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will look back at those famous privatisations and say that at the time Mirko Cvetkovic was not the director of the Privatisation Agency, that he was Santa Claus, that my fellow farmer ZZ was not the prime minister, that he was somewhere on "The Rubin", around there he was doing something, that Djelic was not the finance minister, that Vlahovic did not exist and that everything fell on the fifth officer, the whole sin was brought down here on the fifth officer. It's about the brother-in-law companies. Here's one of the shorts, but it's not an offshore who's been increasing national income by working out there, it's the one who's been suckin' out, the one who's been sucking' up the drains, who's been sucking' money out of here. It's about my colleague ZZ's winery, which apparently changed, so he ran off with my skewer, they're famous rabbits. So he says like this – Vinot Ventures, Wickhams Cay, Tortola, Road Town, Virgin Islands, solution, Winery ZZ from Krcedin. So it's a winery that got 525 thousand euros and sent them to the Virgin Islands and I don't think any criticism of those who skip this is in place. The rest of the time, I'm giving up my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37443	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37444	I thank the chairman. Dear Prime Minister, I have watched very carefully the effort and effort of today's day to justify Sinisha Little. I feel like you're sitting on the defendant's bench and you're his lawyer, and that's because you're proposing to the finance minister the man who brought or brought with him a suitcase full of affairs. If Minister Vujovic sat there, who has left for unknown reasons, you would not have the need to invest so much energy, nor would you have so many questions about the affairs you had to answer today on behalf of Cynthia Mali. But Mr Vujovic was obviously not ready to participate in something that you forced him to do, or possibly forced him to, some of the actions that are against the law or in someone's private interests, so it was necessary to bring in someone who was obviously and how he had experience with financial malfeasances and transactions, about what all this is about today that you could listen to and defend Mr Sinisha Mali. I don't want to talk about all these malfeasances because I don't know Mr. Sinisha Little. I've heard this about him or read about him as a citizen of Serbia. If it's true, someone will prove it someday. But when you talk about the new finance minister. which is one of the players of 24 disputed privatisations or at least nine, while he was headed by the tendering director. Then, you are talking about a new candidate for Finance Minister Mr. Malom, who is also suspected to have participated in an affair in the disputed privatisation of Beopetrol by Lukoila, which the Anti-Corruption Council also said was damaged by 100m euros. Then, 24 apartments worth fivem euros, which he built along with counterpart Srdjan Dabic, with whom he continued to work at Lukoil after privatising the company. Furthermore, the collapse in Savamala, where he boasted and his wife, which was named by the president of the Republic as one of the key actors by the president of the Republic, the president called the top of Belgrade's government a complete idiot. Then, 10 acres of acquired agricultural land to grow compost by his family. Then, 95,000 euros his wife claims to have been forced to say that her father left it to her, a variety of brother-in-law companies, etc. It really takes one big reason to dare defend a man like this in front of Serbian citizens, not in front of us. And this, or the reason that Mr. Sinisha Mali deserved it, because someone asked him to do things like this, or that he was expected to do what was great in his past lives in government, this is his third government in which he will be an actor, to continue doing it and to do it now in this regime together with you. This is a boastful move by the authorities and you, Madam Prime Minister, are very boastful about internal policy, but you are very powerless about foreign policy. To propose such a candidate, with the highest affairs, a candidate for the finance minister, who has certainly been in this government for the last six years, the man with the highest number of affairs being followed, is to humiliate Serbia and mock the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without giving an answer to any of these affairs suspected by man. Maybe he's not responsible for any of this. Maybe I wouldn't say this at all, but you should have come and said it wasn't true. He was suspected and accused by the president of the Republic of Serbia, whom he is proposing today as finance minister. Perhaps because it should protect interests in co-operation with Arab companies, related to Etihad or Belgrade on water, where he was the president's chief associate and someone who communicates with Arab companies. But what is the problem – what will be the result? This is the fourth finance minister since 2012 since you rule and it's worse and worse. So you, ma'am, are free to laugh, but the facts are unquestionable. In 2012, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia was 14.9 billion euros. Today, or more specifically on April 30th this year, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is 23.9 billion euros. You have entrusted citizens of the Republic of Serbia with 10 billion euros. Don't laugh. That's something below 60% of GDP today. You haven't returned anything, but in the first quarter of this year you're in charge of the new 504m euros. I'm speaking at the Ministry of Finance or the Public Debt Administration. So, I'm not making anything up. As for the surplus you're talking about, in this year 3.7 billion, last year it was 11.8 billion. All the things you want to show as a great success, it's just you in power. It's obviously much better for you in six years, too, but that's why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are much worse, and it's gonna get worse. When you say that someone else is responsible for the state of affairs in the country, I will remind you that there are at least nine ministers sitting in your government today who have been ministers in different governments since 2000, and they are also responsible for what you are accusing others of. You should be aware when you talk about it. The finance minister you're proposing is one of those people. I do not know what the situation in the Republic of Serbia will remain after the rule and regime of Alexander Vukic, but based on what we have seen how Sinisha Mali works, I can safely say that in Serbian finances after his ministry and management of the state register, there will probably be ruins, as we had after the destruction of the facilities in Savala during the night of April 24th.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37445	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37446	Thank you. You're calling on the citizens again. That's what we talked about last time. I said that elections are the best indicator of what citizens think, not what you say here that citizens think and how it is to citizens. The only thing up and up in Serbia is your rating and your number of voters. It's the only thing worse and worse in Serbia. If you want me to repeat the results again, I'll be most pleased to do it and I'm trying to keep some new ones, because I assumed we'd be playing this again so that you guys would go round and round and I'd do the numbers, you know, I'd do the numbers, so I didn't want it all at once. So in the first quarter, foreign direct investment inflows are 611.6m euros. This is about 4.7% or about 28m euros more than in 2017, for which Financial Times said Serbia is the world champion. As for surpluses since the beginning of the year, the current surplus in the budget of 10.7 billion dinars has been planned for a deficit of 37.7 billion dinars. The profit of the economy in 2017, if we are talking about citizens, is the economy, the citizens, the profit of the economy was 437 billion dinars, so 3.7 billion euros, more than twice the result of 2016. So I'm not taking any further time. I don't know exactly what's worse and worse, again, except for your ratings. I've responded to all the imaginary affairs, a few times, and I think that's enough. I also answered the doctorate, said how many times the commission met, told you the dates, told you the votes, answered you for that famous 24 apartment, answered you, what else was there, and for 45 bank accounts, and I don't know what else was going on. In any case, three times, four times today I've answered you, so not to go back to it, I think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have heard and understood. Finally, to tell you again, saying that Minister Vujovic left for an unknown reason is really more than funny. Minister Vujovic wrote the reasons why he left. I asked, with his permission, for his letter to be completely public. The man left for personal and private reasons. In addition, the man said: “I was a four - year minister in this government, satisfied with co-operation, oversatisfactory with the results. If you want or need me to come back and be a consultant, counselor, I will, I will come, we will work together on the team." So, Minister Vujovic didn't leave for some unknown reason, he left, so he wouldn't come back. The man is behind what he's been doing, behind what the government's been doing for the past four years, and it's amazing that you who know that, you've seen that letter, you're saying that the man is honest, open, now you question his intentions that he clearly said in that letter. So these things are kind of intellectually wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37447	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the right MPs should know that the replica goes after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but, my God, they will learn. I'm advertising Article 107, violation of dignity. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you all remember that a year and a half ago, with the vicious smiles of these across the street, I asked whether it was true that Vuk Jeremic, whom I call the Wolf descendant, had received two Chinese companies of four million euros to his enterprise shop and to his NGO. I also asked if he won from the Qatar embassy, I think, 500,000 euros. They were smiling. I wasn't lazy, so I went to the Ministry of Finance and asked for petitions and other organs to investigate it. Here I have the document – Vuk Jeremic, whom I call the Wolf descendant, asked this Assembly, because by 2014, he was also a member of the National MP, was little to be president of the UN Assembly, had already kept the seat of the National MP, asked for consent to be a consultant in the hated, they do not like through this company, the company is called the China Energy Fund Committee. So, he asked for and received consent from the Committee on Administrative Affairs, as well as from counterpart Martinovic, and the Anti-Corruption Agency. However, money when it was received from other companies called Full Source, it is probably a full source, and State Energy, the money was received from quite other companies, which is an additional reason to suspect the activity of Vuk Jeremic, who was, unfortunately, also foreign minister. Also, dignity was injured because he, seeing the energy companies, started acting as a sheik, and one night was 1,200 euros, so the allowance was 25,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37449	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37450	I'm done. So he spent 3.5m euros on travel. Now, that's that famous source... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37451	You're out of time. Thank you, MP. First the replica Vladimir Orlic, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37452	Since we are mentioned and have been questioned by our definitions and objectives, politically, among other things, when it comes to our proposal, behind which, that we fully understand, of course, we stand, the proposal to be elected by Mr. Mali. I understand, Madam Prime Minister, that it's hard to believe the kind of people we often deal with here, but unfortunately, that's how it is. These same people who today are calling on Minister Vujovic, not a small number of times, were directly falling down on him while he was sitting in those benches, and then they pretended to understand him and that nothing was clear to them, and the man was trying to teach them some things. Now all of a sudden they're sort of correcting their opinion. They have no opinion, so they have nothing to correct. Both Mr. Vujovic and the International Monetary Fund, which is not good for them, have also explained how much debt it was, that it was 17.7 billion at the end of the year when the people had driven them into history and that it was in percentage, and why it is measured as a percentage, it is not clear to them, now it is exactly at the level at which it was when it flew into that spiral of debt, that we are now under the Mastricht and that we will be below what they did alone the moment they broke this country's law and introduced that country into the spiral of destruction. When the outside plan is said, Mr. Risticevic is right, it is not easily known what is more funny, that the representative of Vuk Tadic's Jeremic is talking about the external plan, and he himself is burdened with corruption affairs, affairs in which people of the world-shaped manipulators have been arrested these days, people who have been lurking in millions of euros. When it is said that "millions of euros transferred to him" that we understand about it, it was confirmed and acknowledged by Vuk Jeremic himself, because his organisation announced that it had filed charges against N.N. faces. Why? Because those values of payments that appeared in the press, as they say themselves, were in line with what they really received. They're admitting they took you in. Now what, we need to figure out how skillful and capable they are of facts on the international agenda? If they are more capable of political than financially, then they must be referring to that disaster and the devastation of national interests in front of the International Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37453	Thank you, MP. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37454	This concludes, last sentence. It is no accident that these people were supported by Milovan Brkic with his "Tabloid". That's the level.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37455	The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37456	Thank you, President. So, Mrs. Brnabic, when you call on the citizens and the election results, I'll tell you, I went out to the elections and I won them, but you're the last one who can respect my support for the citizens, because you never went out on your own. When you come out and measure yourself, then you can tell me about it. As far as we're talking about data, I've been reading your Ministry of Finance's data, your government, and I'll read it to you again. Therefore, at the conclusion of 30 April 2018, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in The public debt of the Republic of Serbia amounted to 14.9 billion euros in 2012, which is 59% of GDP, and you broadcast new securities worth 504m euros in the first quarter. So, for the new 504m euros, you owe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. So much for that. I hope Mr. Mali will explain to you what the class of surpluses is, and what the deficits and how does that affect the state? And does it have anything to do with how Serbian citizens live today? The fact that you don't pay off your obligations to farmers and other categories, so you say we have a surplus, we've spent less than we should, it's no success, it's just manipulation of economic categories. Of course, as regards these references to Mr. Jeremic's name, all of these will be determined by the competent authorities, as they have so far established. You are now in favor of this affair because of our rating, otherwise they were arrested six months ago, but he certainly never gave money to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor Clinton two million euros, nor to Blair, nor to the Shredder, nor to the various Guzenbauers and other advisers where Vukic spent money on Serbian citizens and threw millions of these citizens you allegedly care about. Don't worry so much anymore, they're getting worse and worse from your worries.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37457	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37458	Is that what someone told Blair? Was this the representative of that man who took a picture with this Blair guy and made high - level meetings with him for his then company and his then president, otherwise a class elder? He must not have meant this man, it's a mistake. So, rating, to be clear, it's so scary and it's so dangerous that I don't know what we're going to do with fear. Two or two percent of how much is Tadic's Wolf? Fair enough. We can circle it because it's 2.6. Now, that's the fear we're feeling. As far as that money is concerned, we are talking again about something that Tadic's Wolf himself admitted. So, on his organization's website, I don't know anymore, is this a business store, a private firm, a club of fans of him himself, it doesn't matter what it is, there's a notice. They're informing you as much as the public that they filed charges against the N.N. The faces because what they claim to have received from abroad in the past months, they say to themselves, well, it is quite so. That's how much they took. The case looks exactly what Vuk Tadic himself explained as, so it's money from my friends abroad, and now that you're participating in a campaign for the president of the Republic and millions of euros, which you say you got from abroad, you spend as soon as possible campaigning during the campaign. What's that? If it wasn't for honor, honesty, fair play democracy, and I'd say nothing of it. On the subject of those charges brought here, one more time. Every time you deal with tabloid content, gentlemen, you confirm that you have not been supported for no reason by Milovan Brkic and his tabloid, and every time you take it into the mouth of the present Mr. Malo, his wife and everything that has happened. Such a kind of insidious blow and hitting on families can only be done by those who choose their society never, even if it means the company of a Milovan Brkic, if it is one of those, there is much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37459	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Brnabic, we had the opportunity to hear various comments here, various policies that were allegedly being conducted. I don't think it's easy work in front of my colleagues, Cynthia Mali, and I think the weight of his future duty is to wash out everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done since SNS and Alexander Vukic took responsibility for the state's leadership. Don't pay much attention to fellow MPs who say things, they'll never say the whole bill and all right to the end. That's the difference between us and the MPs of the former regime. They can't understand that they'll be more popular among citizens if they tell them the truth, so whatever the truth is. They didn't learn that, as long as they're already in the opposition, and they don't realize that every lie they're saying is being punished in the elections. Here, I'll just get some information on how they deal with the facts. They say the 2012 debt was 14.9 billion euros. Here, I accept that according to the public debt account at the time, it was that percentage. But they won't tell you that in the next period, the Republic of Serbia had to cover the loss of Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Banks, which they also made. That's about a billion euros somewhere, and that'll keep you quiet, that suits them. Well, they won't say, let's say, it had to be covered by new credit obligations of subsidies to farmers about 42.43 billion dinars, figure out how many euros they took, and by budget law to pay off, they didn't pay off. But they won't, let's say, tell you this, that the percentage of the execution of the Republic of Serbia's budget on 30 June 2012 is only 60% of the funds planned. They also won't tell you that the total deficit for 2012 on 30 June 2012 was spent at 95%. That's what they're not talking about. They won't even say they left the state with 26% unemployed. They won't say that the national currency or your dinar has lost its value by four years 50%. They won't say that that's why the Serbian economy was on its knees. They'll keep quiet that it's why we've been like a country at high risk of being in charge and that every assignment, including theirs, has been the most expensive in the world. I don't think even Greece with 350 billion euros in debt has paid interest like Serbia. Well, they won't say we had to cover the exchange rate between the euro and the dollar of a billion and 200 euros. And you'll be quiet. They won't say that we had to cover corporate debts in restructuring because the directors of the former regime competed who would buy a more expensive and better car. That'll keep you quiet. But they're going to say there's going to be inflation. They can tell us that. Now inflation in the planned framework is about three percent, even less, and during their rule it went up to 14% or 16%. They will say that if the SNS continues to rule it will start wars, and Serbia is a source of stability in the region. And that's what they said here. Well, they threatened the citizens that if the SNS continued to rule they would print money, and the course of the dinar was never more peaceful. That is to say their assumptions, and these are the consequences and recipes they had as they exercised power in the Republic of Serbia. Then I keep asking, does anyone ever learn anything from their mistakes? Will it make a difference sometime? I think it's a mental noun to learn something from other people's mistakes. It's something abstract for them. Now I'm listening here and my colleagues are doing some research. I respect every attitude and every opinion on the economy, but we question the views and opinions of individuals, and even the authorities, which have been denied. You know, you can't talk about Serbia being exposed to the currency risk of the euro and the dollar course. That crisis came to its peak a year and a half ago. You don't know that, and then you attributed those exchange rates to the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, even though it had nothing to do with it, but you who owed the state back then in dollars, the former regime. Now it's the reverse process. Now they say it's not your fault. So they were credited when the process went in an unfavourable direction for the Republic of Serbia and its public finances, but now they're not our merits, when the process is vice versa, you know. They didn't learn. With them, understanding the economy is a one-way street. They don't know and they don't understand that you always have two sides and the result has to be zero. They've always had some strange result and I don't want to get into it, but that's why I'm asking the credibility of everything that's been said about the government's results and the results that the new finance minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali, has to achieve in the future. We are talking about that the stable finances of the Republic of Serbia are not the result of economic indicators, but of some strange circumstances that have just happened. The pension mass paid by the fund in 2018 is significantly higher than the pension mass paid for in 2014. The difference that the Republic of Serbia made in 2014 and 2012 to the Pension Insurance Fund was 61%. It's twice as small today, and the mass is bigger. Well, where did that money come from? Someone doesn't understand or want to understand, understand what it is, what short-term paper emissions are of value and how and how they affect the deficit or the amount of public debt. Now, as far as the economy is concerned, as far as public finances are concerned, that's how they run the country. What more can I say about that and their concerns for the pensioners? Here, I don't know how many colleagues have talked about it, and imagine, your government and the government of Alexander Vukic has the obligation to pay off pensions of military pensioners who have not been increased in accordance with the law, and what pensioners of the minority had to pay off in court, 20 billion dinars, and they have the courage to talk about how they care about security forces? The other day was the law. Where are the 20 billion you didn't give them? As we worry about the former regime about the current members of security forces, so the military and the police, we see how they cared until 2012, in lawsuits that the military pensioners had against the Republic of Serbia and then suddenly, not even allow someone to say -- sorry, our results are citizens, they are our judges and they will be when the elections are again and no one else is to blame for our good or bad result, but every citizen is to measure as much as they need. One more thing, colleagues from the former regime, forget about that higher united opposition, I don't mind, but I think it's a bad move, because you can only cheat Serbian citizens with a new DOS in 100 years. About that cycle goes once in 100 years. Until then, there might be someone else. We will be happy to support the election of Sinishi Malah for the new finance minister, because he has results as mayor of Belgrade. Pick me one, one name that's been done more for Belgrade since the 1990s. Here, I was young in 1990, so I don't know, but since I was nineties, say at least one name for the mayor who was a better mayor than Cynthia Malloy, and I accept that. Here, I accept, which means that his successor mayor will also have one serious job, to continue as Sinisa had to continue everything the governments had done before the government of Ms. Ana Brnabic and all the ministers who had been since SNS took responsibility in all the governments led by SNS and Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37461	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37462	Thank you. I have to say, I hope it doesn't break down, running our president's session today. I think this is an example of how one sensitive topic and debate can be controlled. I would simply like, one small remark, that as little and as sanctioned as possible, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister is here. She can defend herself, she's shown that she's responding. Sometimes we're more satisfied, sometimes we're less satisfied with those answers, but what's there is a problem and what we've found in some previous cases, let's try for the citizens. The citizens will be tried one way or another. Let's talk about facts and arguments and when we exaggerate on one side or on the other, it's hard to bring some too many points, but don't let the leadership of the Assembly keep the voice of criticism from being heard. If that vote is excessive and unfair, then it will be sanctioned by citizens in some elections. We have a proposal here for a candidate for the finance minister. I have to say that me and my colleagues won't support it, so there won't be a dilemma. Of course we won't support that proposal. We cannot support this proposal for personal and conceptual reasons. For personal reasons, there was enough to be said here. I don't have much to add. I don't even like that kind of debate, but the fact is that we're not talking about the government program, we're talking about a concrete candidate for finance minister, and then it makes sense to comb and his biography. This is how it is done elsewhere in the world, after all, on committees or in the congregation itself. What's a bigger problem to me, this is the only thing about biography, that's what my colleagues have already discussed, you've answered. I have to admit, I didn't hear or understand those answers. You said every affair you answered. I didn't really understand those answers, but you don't have to answer that. If I didn't understand when you were answering others, I probably won't now. What's real to me and that was a problem with Mr. Malo's predecessor in this place, is Mr. Vujovic, it's a concept, a direction, the financial philosophy of this government. I have a problem here and there we disagree and I spoke to Minister Vujovic himself while he was in office. I don't like talking about exes. If I have something to say to them, I tell them while they're in power, while they're powerful, and not now that he's gone, that I'm later criticizing him. On the contrary, I think he was a good accountant and he did a good job that he was entrusted with, but I think that direction, this political philosophy, the economic philosophy he was carrying out was wrong. To be very specific, it's an IMF policy. This is essentially a policy without hearing the advice and recommendations of the IMF and boasting about it. I know it's a legitimate path, that many countries have gone that way. Most of the time, these attempts to consolidate according to the IMF's prescription did not end well. So, I would say that Mr. Vujovic was a good protagonist of bad politics, i.e. poor economic philosophy. Now we're not talking about Kosovo, it's not about state policy, it's about finance. When it comes to finance and economic policy of this government, I would much prefer that this government listens to recommendations from people such as Nebojsa Katic, Jovan Dusanic, as well as Goran Nikolic, Ivica Stojanovic and some other economists who are skeptical of the IMF recipe and this cult of foreign investors who cultivate this government. They were growing some of the previous ones. So that's what my problem is, more than even, I don't know, personal grudges on the biography or I don't know some parts, details from Mr. Cynthia's biography. That's what my key dilemma is. I would like you as the most responsible for government policy to say something about this, about the direction of economic policy, and these results that you boast and praise colleagues, can also be viewed in another way. There has been some fiscal stabilisation, but also, let's face it, the debt has been increased, the growth has now been stopped, but it has been increased, ten billion, nine billion, as many as you want, eight billion, is not less than that, the euro. The VAT's up, let's not forget that. It's actually a burden transfer to citizens. Salaries and pensions have been cut, and that's a serious point. Accises have been introduced to products that have never been introduced into excise duty anywhere. The last thing I'd ask you to tell me is, do you know a country where electricity excise is paid, say, for electricity? Maybe there is, but I'm just something, I can't remember. There aren't many anyway. So, to everything and everything, not just on luxury goods, but even on electricity. I'm afraid that's the price these seemingly good results were paid, the economic results of this government. That's why I'd like you to tell me, Mrs. Brnabic, a little bit more in the direction, about the government's economic philosophy, not just saying whether Mr. Mali is a good candidate or less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37463	Thank you. The word is Bug Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37464	I thank the president. Reputed Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, respected Serbian citizens, the government of the Republic of Serbia has continued its work on implementing all projects and reforms launched, with the goal of Serbia progressing and achieving the best possible outcome for its citizens' lives, so a positive trend continues with the election of a new minister. Continuing work to refresh domestic finances, improve the business environment, Serbia has become a suitable ground for foreign investors to invest in the Serbian economy. Economic and fiscal policy in the previous period has established the stability of the public finances of the overall micro-economic environment. The growth trend in economic activity leading to accelerated economic recovery has been observed. I would especially stress the strengthening of our dinar, which had previously crossed the path from the fourth worst currency in the world to the second best currency in the world. The US agency Blumerg, which is valid in the world of economics, has declared the Serbian dinar in the last year and a half, with all its performances, another currency in the world and that is something that is surprising to me, very poorly accompanied in our media, but I think it deserves great attention, because a strong dinar means a strong Serbian economy. Here's what the Bluemerg agency says. According to the "Blumerga" assessment of investors' additional optimism about dinar-deminated bonds, which will already exceed all values in the region in the coming year, it is a confirmation of the adequate monetary policy carried out by the NBS for the past six years and the success of joint work by the president of the state, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS. Another thing, very interesting, was the participation of Serbia's public debt, which was 71.9% of GDP at the end of 2016. Today it's 59.4, the state of the budget remains stable. Serbia is buying foreign money to reduce debt to 50% by the end of the year. We're still in the surplus. Thanks to the reforms and responsible policy conducted by President Vukic, the government has come up with such positive results in our budget and economy in general. The government's main goal is to maintain macroeconomic stability, reduce public debt, create new jobs, strengthen the profitability of public enterprises in the fight against the grey economy. The average gross earnings for March 2018 amounted to 68,251 dinars, while the average salary without taxes and contributions, meaning net, was 49,000 dinars. I would like to put on an accent and I would especially like to thank our pensioners who, having understanding and patience, have made a huge contribution to getting the state out of a difficult economic crisis. Retiring pensions was a difficult decision, necessary due to a non-domestic relationship with the state and its citizens by the previous government. The joint decision by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the Prime Minister on the suspension of the Law on the temporary reduction of pensions indicates that fiscal reform has succeeded and that there is a possibility of an increase in pensions in the coming period. I think your proposal to be Sinisha Mali's new finance minister is excellent and I'll be free to say that he became mayor the moment the Belgrade city's budget hole was huge. His engagement and, of course, his associates, during his term of office, halved the debt of the Belgrade city. Many economic activities have been initiated. Only a malevolent man can pass by and not see that Belgrade is full of cranes, that the construction operation is maximumly employed and that gives one indicator to which we can all be satisfied. Employment in the city of Belgrade has been brought to a historic minimum. I, as a Zemunac, want to thank the mayor, is what my citizens reminded me of, for all that he contributed and gave to the municipality of Zemun. The municipality of Zemun has about 250,000 inhabitants and for the last year we have paved along with you and the president of the municipality, of course with our team 300 streets. So it hasn't been done in the last, almost 10 years. So there's great joy for the people of Zemun when the asphalt comes to the front of the house. I hope that if we continue at this moment, that by one year and a half we will pave all the streets of Zemun and consider it a serious privilege and I consider it a great economic outcome. Personally, Mr. Mali, I am grateful that you helped build a school in the Busies for the population of my people who escaped in 1995. There wasn't a school there, and there's a great talent and it's gonna be a serious job. For a year, the school was placed under the roof, and this is all thanks to the engagement of both the mayor and the president of the municipality and all the economic operators who gave the maximum. I've never seen a school built before in my life. I thank you for all the other schools you've renovated and made your contribution to be in great numbers. I would like to say that the citizens of Belgrade have recently given an evaluation of Mr. Malko's work, and that's a ten. In the election, they said what they thought about it, and we can't forget it. In any case, the confirmation of everything else, let's say we almost had it at the Financial For game, where 20,000 foreign tourists said on the agency's issues that the city was clean, that the city was lit up, that the city was safe. Everyone said they'd come back again. Of course, it is all thanks to the mayor and the team he formed and, of course, to all the other presidents of municipalities, entities and civil servants in other segments. Anyway, I wish you the success of Laza Pachu, it's the famous finance minister in difficult times. Here, if he's not 100 years old, we're still talking about him. I think you're coming to a much better position than Laza Patcha was and I don't doubt you at all. I think you've endured a lot of things, I think they've been unfairly rude to you many times, but that's how it is to you. Better ones are hard to forgive. Anyway, with these two hands, I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37465	Thank you. The word is Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37466	Thank you. Like my fellow opposition colleagues who have debated today, I also agree with them that Sinisha Mali is not a good solution for the future finance minister, but unlike my fellow opposition colleagues who today, as an argument, mainly set an example of various affairs, and many affairs, I would like to comment on the style of public finances management. I'd like to point that out as the main reason why I think it's not a good solution for Sinisha Mali to be the future finance minister. I'm gonna talk about maybe the cheapest of these numerous affairs, there's too many of them. No one mentioned the New Year's tree we had in Belgrade, probably because all these other affairs were much more expensive, and I think that this New Year's tree is a symbol and a perfect example of mismanagement of public finances. What happened? For the new year, Belgrade City announced a tender to acquire a New Year's tree that will stand in the Republic Square, because, among other things, it is good and tourism for the capital, which, I agree, if we have tourists they come, we have a good holiday atmosphere, there are great chances that they will come next year. But then there is a single firm, one single bidder, and offers a new year's tree for 83,000 euros. Since it's one of the only bidders, it's all within the law. However, not everything is legal at the same time. Let me explain. Every law we make has its own spirit in which it is written. If we have laws governing the area of public procurement and tender, it is clear that the spirit of the law is preventing the abuse of public money. If a single bidder appears on the tender and a tree, which costs three thousand euros in real market, asks for 83,000 euros, it is by law, but is not in the spirit of the law. If I had been mayor of Belgrade and had received such an offer, I would have looked at that 83 thousand-euro offer and said this is equal to a two-bedroom apartment in which we can house a family with two children, who may be thinking about having a third child, but this is delayed because there is no housing issue, I will not give 83,000 euros for the New Year's tree, if there are no other bidders, it is better that Belgrade and there is no New Year's tree on New Year's Eve, rather than toss money that way. Now in the country of Serbia, which is not democracy, but rather a partocrat, because here we have dozens of affairs that are open and never closed, precisely because part of the democracy has kidnapped all institutions that might lead these affairs to an epilogue or to release responsibility or to say, yes, there have been some responsibilities, we have open affairs and the situation in which the opposition can say – yes, Sinisha Mali is responsible, and the government has to say – no, is not responsible. And it's now a non-stop dance, and in the meantime we have these things, as is the example of this new year's tree, that funds for similar projects are allocated from the budget of the City of Belgrade, the tree is not the only project, that these projects are overpaid, more expensive than they are really costing, and that the surplus of that money is then drawn into some party flows, of which some party activities are financed. Because this happened with the New Year's tree, I think that, first of all, it's not the only example, it's just perhaps the best example of how Sinisha Mali used to manage public finances while he was mayor of Belgrade, and I think that's why we shouldn't trust him with a much bigger budget, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because I'm afraid he'll continue to manage public money in a similar way. For the end, I'd just like to ask two questions to the prime minister. Would it be all right for you to, by any chance, be mayor, because New Year's Eve pays 83,000 euros from the Belgrade City budget? Would you rather decide if we didn't have a tree than have such an expensive tree? I ask you in your answer, first, not to say that it was the only bidder, so it's all by law, because I have explained, there's a difference between the spirit of law and legality, and secondly, please don't answer that the tree was endowed and not paid, because the tree was set, the noise broke and only to remove the stains, then it went to the fact that the Kobajagi contract was broken or the Kobajagi contract wasn't signed. But before the fourth branch of government, the few investigative journalists we have performed their function and introduced the public to this, there was no such excuse. If we hadn't discovered that this tender exists, it would have passed, the 83,000-euro tree would have passed. Please don't tell me about the election and the election results. I have already explained here that the results in the elections are not the result of the electoral will of citizens, but the result of the manipulation of the electoral process with the help of those 80,000 euros that are overpaid from the excess trees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37467	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37468	Thank you. I will try to answer your tree-related questions, and then I will return only to the honourable MP, to say something about the IMF, how the Serbian government is listening to them unspeakably and to the directions in which this government is going in terms of financial policy, public debt, etc. First of all, as far as the tree is concerned, I view all the decorations that concern the new year as an investment. Why as an investment? I agree with you. We could spend 80,000 euros and buy an apartment for one family, and that would be the point, we'd take care of one family, and that's that. If you invest, then you have the results that we have today, that in 2017 Belgrade had more than a million tourists, which represents a 20% growth compared to 2016. Now you're telling me, yes, but what does it have to do with this one family we didn't buy an apartment instead of an example? These trees? Well, there is, because when you have this much increase in the number of tourists, then you also need to open up, for example, just at least watch, and new hotels. The need for hotels and we came to the conclusion that four years ago Belgrade had 67 hotels, that today there are 104 hotels, that many additional hotels are in construction because there is a need, because Belgrade has more and more tourists. Now, when you have 104 hotels instead of 67 hotels, then those 104 hotels hire some people, these people have some salaries and some families live out of it, and then you allow these people to buy themselves an apartment, which is the purpose of the state administration. Not to buy anyone's own apartment, but to provide them with conditions to have jobs, to have salaries so they can buy their own apartment. So I fully see one sense economically in that you spend money on investment, and the tree and New Year's decorations are investments that ultimately attract tourists. As for an 83,000-euro tree or how much it was, then it was the price of a 69,000-euro tree plus a VAT going to the state, so what I heard about that tree was, firstly, thank you for saying that everything is legal and I understand you saying that it's not all legitimate. This public procurement was published on a public procurement portal, completely transparent. All right, one company called and the firm offered a tree of that height, which looks like a total gauge of 69,000 euros. The affair was not made about what a company offered a tree, no, it was not an affair, because it was not an affair that could be made since it was published transparently for the Public Procurement Portal. The affair has risen, I clearly remember that day, because you said, some people who then criticized it, not you, that the tree is the most expensive tree in the world, that Belgrade bought the most expensive tree in the world. I want to tell you that this year's most expensive tree is placed in Europe in Italy, in front of the centre's freeway, a 31m-high shopping mall, which is slightly below 400,000 euros, in front of the mall. I guess they thought it was an investment that would bring some people here, some families to buy it, and that an investment in a 400,000-euro tree is worth it. So this is Italy, but it's not Rome, it's a mall. "Rock Feller" centre in New York, I remember that was, our Belgrade tree is more expensive than the tree in New York. So the total price of a tree in New York is $73,500, which is for one use. So next year, the new 73, 74 thousand dollars for the tree. The most expensive tree in the world is the tree in Abudabi at the Emirat Palace Hotel, which costs $11m. I've been asked about the affair and I'm trying to answer you. People's MPs are getting it. I'm saying again, just because you don't like the truth, because you don't like my answer, doesn't mean I have to stop talking, right, you asked me, let me answer. So, in no nearer context, the Belgrade tree is not the most expensive tree in the world. Similar trees in all public procurement cost similar, or more expensive. And it's also verifiable. So this tree affair is a real affair that wasn't about public procurement. It was an affair that we bought the most expensive tree in the world, and I have shown you now that even the mall in Italy had a more expensive tree than the Belgrade tree. I think that Belgrade has certainly made overall good investment decisions in the past, given the number of tourists, the number of newly opened restaurants, the number of services we provide to these tourists, taxis, hotels, accommodations and all that affects the local economy. People's MPs are getting it. ) As much as you don’t like the answer, I can’t believe you don’t like the truth so much. But does it really hurt that much? So I can understand your economy that all the money you have is spent on some things that are real, how can I tell you, in that sense they're populist. Buy an apartment for one family and you have nothing more to bring to all the other families. I think the City of Belgrade is running one responsible policy, which is ultimately seen by a reduction in the unemployment rate in the city. It all contributes to that. If we had an unemployment rate of about 15%, 2013 and 2014, then it is actually an indicator of such a policy and these investments. I will now answer a little about the IMF and how the government of the Republic of Serbia is listening unspeakably to the IMF. I think you too know, because the IMF really spoke publicly about it at its press conferences, that they disagree with the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the most important things, which are raising wages and raising pensions. The International Monetary Fund has been against this every time, and each time the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then in the mandate of Alexander Vukic. After I took over the government, she made those decisions despite the IMF's disagreement because we knew it was possible to reward pensioners with this kind of fiscal policy and to return money to people in the public sector, and in addition to that, in health and education, to raise salaries by 10% and 7%, respectively, compared to fiscal consolidation measures. The International Monetary Fund disagreed with this, but we did it anyway. As for the direction of the fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I didn't talk much about it, because I really really thought that so far it was a clear direction for everyone and that they were the clearest priorities. Again, this is the government of continuity. These priorities, that direction was clear in the term of the government of Aleksandr Vukic. First three priorities. The first is maintaining fiscal discipline and stability. The new finance minister will have to take serious care of the cash register. The second is faster economic growth, but it is based on sound, sustainable foundations. What does that mean, and how does it look at the Minister of Finance's business? First, because of fiscal discipline, the finance minister must ensure that we have the resources for as much public investment, for as much public investment, for roads, for schools, for hospitals, for bridges, for sewers, for all such things. That's the first direction. The other thing is the less imposing on the economy. The finance minister is there to see, to make analyses and to see what the fiscal situation is and whether we can have less pressure on the economy, but not to endanger Serbia's fiscal stability at any time. The third goal is certainly to fight the gray economy. The fight against the gray economy is to the greatest extent possible in the finance minister's portfolio. At this point the focus is entirely on reforming the work of inspection services, which started in 2015 and we continue to implement the program of transformation of the tax administration and the first two things are certainly the separation of so-called. Cor of non-cor activities, key activities... If the MPs don't care what direction the fiscal government of the Republic of Serbia is, I really don't have to speak, but I think you asked. So, the transformation of the tax administration, to separate key activities from those that are not crucial for the tax administration to focus on its work, its key job and its revenue in the budget, and also to be made available to the economy. We have and finally... It's hard for me to concentrate because citizens need to know that a group of MPs here are what I'm saying very funny, not really serious. It's important that the citizens know, so I have to say. The third, of course, was the parafiscal reform, something that was mentioned here. What's the point of all this? New jobs, greater choice of people for jobs, better paid jobs and better services for citizens primarily through health care and education, and this is in the shortest possible way what the first three objectives of the fiscal policy of the government, the Ministry of Finance and why. Finally, public debt, I'll try for a while, I've tried a few more times in the past to answer this. So, first, at this point, the public debt is below 60% of GDP, below the level of mastite. In this sense, Serbia is finally re-classified into a group of stable countries. Secondly, it's very different when you have a hundred dinars of public debt at an interest rate of 7%, and that's how the state was in charge then and when you decide to use the responsible fiscal policy to say, I'm going to take a hundred dinars at an interest rate of one or two percent, to replace them, to pay off this of 7%, which the gentlemen took, to pay back 1%. That is why, among other things, the absolute amount is increasing, but it is important that we today can make it much easier to repay this public debt and that the economy is much stronger, which is why the public debt is shrinking and, ultimately, all objective observers and all objective partners are actually saying that today Serbia, in terms of public debt, is also a stable country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37469	Thank you. Branka Stamenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37470	Thank you. Just for a little while. So, you were talking about how the tree at the mall in Italy costs 400,000 euros and that much, much more expensive than the one the city of Belgrade got for only 83,000 euros. There's one big difference. That tree was bought from private money. We're talking about public money here. When it comes to public money, we have to have a very different style of behavior. That's what I wanted to illustrate with this example and what bothers me. It's my impression that this government, this mayor so far, and the future finance minister, manages the public money as if it were private and not. That's what bothers me. We think we need to be much more thrifty. We are neither Abu Dhabi nor Italy. We have a much smaller amount of money at our disposal and we have a lot of big needs. We don't have social policy. People because we don't have social policy are focused on each other when they get into some kind of trouble, so we help each other out. In regulated countries, the state takes care of people when they get into some big life problem. In order to have money for responsible social policy, we need to be much more resourceful with public money. That's my basic objection. The new year's tree could be bought for 3,000 euros. It was bought for 83,000. I think it was better that we didn't even buy it, that we saved those 83,000 euros, than we had this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37471	Thank you. You, replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37472	I would like to thank Mrs. Brnabic for her extensive attempt to respond. I still think this government's policy towards the IMF is too condescending. So, too condescending and if I followed the media, and I did, I realized that they still approved these increases, that there were negotiations, talks with him, but all these increases were approved. After all, if I'm not mistaken, they're IMF, far from defending them, but they said they needed this law to be abolished on pension cuts. So they insisted on that reduction, and even the first statements of both yours and the people of the government were that we couldn't do it, and then there was a solution published by Mr. Vukic the other day. So I think the position of the state towards the IMF is too condescending. Doesn't mean some of their recommendations aren't good. I agree that something is good, but generally better for a reasonable, responsible government to lead politics, to be without the IMF's tutorship. If it was bad, we'd agree. I've got a whole bunch of papers and photos and projects going on in the past. I just think that it was naive, wrong, incorrect to draw the line that, until about 2012, everything was bad, and after 2012, everything was fine, as the previous government drew the line at 2000, and then again nothing was right and after 2000 the sun came up. I owe you a short answer, you asked. Who is the better mayor? Do I know any better mayors than Mr. Little? I know a few, from Branko Pesic, through Neboja Colic, through Nenad Bogdanović, to Dragan Gilas. In my opinion, all those in different political options were better mayors than Mr. Little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37473	Thank you. The word has the Soul Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37474	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The prominent Prime Minister, Mrs Brnabic, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, Belgrade has finally begun to realize its dreams as the capital. Good politics is the only policy that is good for people, which is good for citizens, not for personal pockets and wallets. In preparation for my presentation today, I really had the opportunity to read a number of material, numerous reports on the work of the City of Belgrade and successfully realised projects in the previous period. You showed that Serbia is being led, that Belgrade is being loved and that the city is developing as citizens, not as the tycoon, with the help of politicians, what was the manner of the previous period, while Belgrade was ruled by so-called. A yellow company. It is good that this city opens to foreign and domestic tourists, which is rising by as much as 10%. It's good to have a tree, and it's good to have new airlines, which are connected to our capital and that every day, our roads, our planes, the growing number of domestic and foreign tourists is coming. The results in Belgrade, after four years, are really impressive. We inherited an empty Belgrade register, huge debts from public utility companies and city municipalities. Now that debt is cut in half. The debt in the city of Belgrade is 1.2 billion euros in 2014, is now reduced and the deficit is four times smaller than it was. We have introduced good practice, as SNS, to report on the work of citizens. To avoid being like our predecessors, to be responsible for the exercise of power, to be responsible for citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. It's important that we check what we promised, what we did to the citizens, and when the campaign and the election are over. I am proud to say that we made a huge part of our promises, the promises made by the SNS, after 2014 and after 2012. The citizens of Kiev had the opportunity in this campaign for the Belgrade elections to meet Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic for the first time. After 40 years, for the first time, a minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia addressed them in a settlement, heard their problems and part of the problems along with the municipality and the city to solve them. It's really a recipe for success. So we can know how many asphalts are missing, how many new bus lines are missing. Sinisa Mali and Goran Vesic have actually successfully implemented numerous projects with their team that we as Belgraders are really proud of. They did a great job when it comes to the public finances of the city of Belgrade, bringing finance to order, financing of public enterprises, municipalities and the city of Belgrade. We've all halved the debt of the city together, paid off all our dues and reduced the budget deficit by almost four times in less than three and a half years. At this moment, we have 12.8 billion dinars in the account of the city of Belgrade, which we will invest in Belgrade in the next period. Due to responsible management of the city's cash register, Belgrade also received a credit rating for the first time. I remind you, a credit rating is the city's blood count and it is a necessary item that every serious investor looks at and appreciates before deciding to invest his money. We did not just invest in downtown Belgrade, but made sure that all parts of Belgrade were developing evenly. In the suburban municipalities daily, and today, a large number of streets, untegorized roads, new kilometers of water and asphalt are being built. More than 750 streets have been renovated, with asphalt in the length of 140km, and for the first time, a 120km of traffic in Belgrade has been paved. Currently, together with the company, Serbia's Roads is working to pave the way for more than 200km of streets, which Belgrade really doesn't remember. We also built 113km of sewerage, 283km of water network, 260km of heat lines, and that's just the results in three and a half years. With the management of my municipality, but also with representatives of the city and municipal enterprises, we really visit and talk to the citizens of Rakovica and Belgrade every Saturday and Sunday. We visit new works on paved streets, open new parks and sports grounds. We are building a sewerage in the village of Ljubisa Jelenkovic and I am really proud of the team of SNS both in the municipality of Rakovic and in the city of Belgrade, but also in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We differ as the Serbian Progressive Party because we talk to our fellow citizens daily and listen to their needs. With this practice we will continue in the next period. Our victory is that Belgrade has become the city of cranes. More than 1,100 sites were built in February this year. So, in February of this year, in 2018, we had 1,100 construction sites in Belgrade. Between 2014 and 2017, the city of Belgrade issued a total of 2,443 location conditions, issued more building permits for more than two million squares. During 2017 alone, more than a million squares were issued, which was really unimaginable a few years ago. Our big victory is that there are more jobs and more investment in Belgrade. At the end of 2013, there were about 1,100 unemployed people in Belgrade. In September 2017, the number was reduced to less than 90,000. It is really not enough and we must, Mrs Brnabic, work to continue hiring people in our country, to create an economic environment, to reduce brain drains, to reduce the departure of Serbian minds beyond the borders of this country. A good indicator that Belgrade is developing in the right direction is that more and more investors and new companies are coming to our city, such as Ikea, the Capitol Park in Rakovica, the Hilton Hotel, the Meita factory in Obrenovac, which contributes to creating new jobs. See what is being built in Belgrade and you will see that in these areas is the highest rate of employment. There is still a great imbalance in employment between men and women, and it is therefore important to create new jobs, where women will be employed, but also through incentives that I want the Government of the Republic of Serbia to continue in the coming period, affirm women's entrepreneurship, to have more women employed and in the country, more women in the IT sector. I now, today, from this place, want to tell you the following. Before the entry of the Budget Act for the following year, for 2019, I want these topics, the topics of female entrepreneurship, the topics of employment of our women in the country to be topics for the new finance minister and I want Mr. Mali and these topics to be actively addressed in the next period. For the sake of truth and spoken words by the opposition, I would like to say the following about the project "Belgrade on Water". We're making a truly centuries-old dream of bringing the city down to the river. Of more than 200km of untapped river shores, thanks to our president's tenacity, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, Belgrade is really getting a magnificent project such as the "Belgrade on Water" project. We've heard a lot of things as Belgraders about this project – that it's about a mere model, that it's not going to be built, that it's going to stay on the level of the model, that it sinks from day to day. They were all doing it to stop the development of our city. Unfortunately for them, and fortunately for all of us, Belgraders, the project is developing successfully and every day when I go to work, when I come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I really have the opportunity to see from the bridge how the project "Belgrade on Water" is getting new outlines from day to day and it starts to really look like a model and it starts to look like that vision that Alexander Vukic was telling us and is beginning to develop on the ground. Today we have arranged the Sava Promenade, and I will remind you, we have inherited the cemetery of ships and wrecks. Today we have arranged green areas, children's playgrounds, cycling trails, sports playgrounds, new lighting in this part of Belgrade, and we inherited garbage, weeds, snakes that the predecessors left us in the amannet. In addition to the housing towers, the construction of the shopping centre, as well as the construction of the Belgrade Tower, will be the highest building in this part of Europe. The "Belgrade on Water" project has indirectly launched a number of other infrastructure projects that have been unfinished for decades, such as the construction of the main railway station Prokop, the removal of railway and bus traffic from the city centre, the construction of a car tunnel that will connect Sava and Danube, the removal of a bus station from downtown Belgrade. Our goal, as SNS, is to really develop the city according to its citizens, according to the Belgrade people, and not according to the tycoon, with the help of politicians, as it was during Dragan Gilas. I think often about why our opponents, why part of the Serbian opposition, are attacking this project this much. Why would someone object to building nearly two million squares, to employ people in Belgrade, to develop Belgrade? Because the development of this project is the measure of their incompetence. Because every day we remind them of an abandoned space that represented the mockery of Belgrade and that they left us in the amanet. Recently on social networks, at the end of last year, in 2017, we had opportunities to see the video of former Mayor Dragan Gilas, who, with tycoons on 12 March 2009, promoted Miskovic's project "The City of Water". I'm sorry, the model project "The City of Water", because that's exactly what they showed in Cannes, the same ones that are now attacking us to make models. I also read that in 2005 it was promoted in the city of the project "Menhetn in the Balkans", just like the space "Beograda on Water". The problem is, apart from the nice plans, they have failed to do anything at all for the citizens of Belgrade. In 2005, I will remind you, Gilas announced the construction of a nuclear power plant in Kostolc, 2008 that the construction of the Ade Huje Bridge would begin in a year. I can really say that all of us Belgraders are still waiting for that Gilas subway and we haven't been able to see it by now. Also, in 2009, Gilas promised that all illegal facilities would be legalized by the end of his term. In 2010, he promised that Prokop would work by the end of the year. That didn't happen. I will remind you, their ministers, their officials have announced that Serbia will become part of the EU in 2008. That didn't happen either. They failed to ratify an agreement, and it is about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which we managed to ratify in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. None of their promises have happened and hence the frustration that we've been hearing all day. That's why we're frustrated because we're the ones who make our plans and dreams come true. We keep the promises we made to the citizens of Belgrade and to the citizens of Serbia. I come from Rakovica, and I really want to say this at the very end – after 45 years of false promises, we managed to build a common health home on Swan Hill. It is about a modern, functional primary protection facility where there is a chance that more than 40 people of Rakovica and Belgrade are being treated since October of last year, and I really congratulate you on that. It is our destiny to really resolve the issues that have left us with their failed projects, from removing the "Town Watch" on Vozdovac, through replicas at the Terraces, in New Belgrade, solving the communal problems in all those wild settlements that have collapsed during the night. Our big victory, all of us from the SNS, is that we show in part that Belgrade is not only on Theazi, Dedinj or Vračar, for us is Belgrade and Padinska Skela and Besni Fok and Jabučki rit and Đurinci and Rogac and Kaludjerica and Ripanj and Knezjevac and Kijevo and Resnik. During the previous government, Belgrade's edges were indeed lagging behind the Belgrade city centre, when it comes to infrastructure, i.e. water, sewerage, roads and public transport. We are the first government in Belgrade to really treat the city centre in the same way and the most remote villages in Belgrade. Our policy, SNS policy, is to build a missing wastewater processing infrastructure in Velika Sela in the coming decades on Belgrade's entire territory, with the construction of the Obrenovac-Novi Belgrade thermal pipeline, with a waste processing plant in Vinca. So I want us to continue to realize our dreams, we want Belgrade with new bridges, new tunnels to become and continue to be a city of cranes and new factories. The investment wheel that started is hard to stop. I would like to say in the voting day in front of the SNS that we will support the proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, that we will support Mr Sinisha Malloy for the new finance minister. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37475	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37476	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today Serbia has chosen the fourth finance minister over the past six years. What is symptomatic is that Serbia is in charge, for six years, of the SNS authorities, 10 billion euros, which is what previous Minister Vujovic here admitted to us when we voted on the 2018 budget. I also hope that Minister Vujovic, like Lazar Krstic, is a serious man who could no longer obey the unreal orders of the SNS and therefore fled the government with his head. What is bad for Serbian citizens is that Sinisa Mali, or whatever the name of the SRS minister, will be a personal banker, exactly the political organisation of the SNS. And what interests both DS MPs and Serbian citizens, for which for the next two reasons, Sinish Mali, becomes finance minister. Is this a reward for successfully destroying the facilities in “Samaloj” or is it punishment, and knows that he is being blackmailed, and that he will have to listen to the executions of the SRS precisely because he destroyed those objects? They're not contentious objects, it's contentious that on that night, and nobody mentions it, a man lost his life because of it. On the other hand, we talked here about political legitimacy, and that's what Prime Minister Brnabic said. Every and every political legitimacy in this hall is known, regardless of the political party it comes from, but only the political legitimacy of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is unknown. The prime minister and president are a couple of excellencies of political function. All day long, we've been listening to the Prime Minister giving sermons to the opposition how many percent they won in the election. I am now asking the question – Prime Minister, how much did you win the percentage in the election? What list were you on? What polling post were you in, and for what function? Not one. And how many votes did you get? None. And that's why you're set up just because you don't have political legitimacy so that you'll be obedient and managed. It doesn't bother me because of you, because of the citizens of Serbia, political stability and political life in Serbia in 2018. You asked what's up there today, I quote -- in Serbia, except for the opposition rating, I think that in that place you should be worried about what's up there, there's soldiers' salaries up there, there's cops' salaries up there, there's doctors' salaries up there, there's pensions up there, you've cut pensions, you've cut the dailys to cops and soldiers. It's up in Serbia. In Serbia, it is worse that no Serbian citizen who is not a member of the SNS has enough money in his wallet, there is not enough fuel in the tank and there is not enough food in the refrigerator. You asked the Prime Minister what was worse. What's worse is that out of 800,000 children who are covered by primary and secondary education, every day 50,000 children are hungry. They don't have money for lunch because their parents don't work. That's worse. The above is that at the company Kaizen in Smederev, workers who work for 25,000 dinars, 30 days a month and Saturdays and Sundays, and work 12 hours each. That didn't occur to you, as you said one day, that your most difficult day in the government since you were in that position, the day you met with a minister. I think that there have been much worse days, unfortunately, in Serbia and the DS is the fiercest opposition and being your rule of law, worse is freedom of the media, worse is the rule of law, worse is that you are harassing political opponents, worse is that you are harassing citizens, worse is that there has been a triple attack on journalists in the last six years. That's what's worse in Serbia during your reign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37477	Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37478	The esteemed chairman, well, here, is a gentleman who knows how to manage the budget, who spent four billion dinars that introduced local self-government into the PPR, meaning it wasn't recorded in the history of public finances to introduce some local self-government in advance prepared debt restructuring plan. One who speaks of political legitimacy and is someone's personal banker shows that he was actually a personal banker of the then-president of DS and showed exactly that he paid salaries for local self-government workers of Smederjevska Palanka through the Vodice Football Club and Glibovac. Well, that's what they teach us about how public finances should be run and who should be the finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37479	The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37480	Thank you. Of course, I'm going to get a hold of myself after the MP always inspires me, especially when he's talking about taking care of the citizens. I suppose he cares about those citizens who didn't have water to wash, for example, the baby, and they live in Smederjevska Palanca, because the water line had restrictions on water in Smederjevska Palanca, there, near Belgrade, people didn't have water. Now, that's a citizen's concern. I suppose the concern for citizens is that the Smederevska Palanka municipality's account has been incessantly in the blockade since 19 December 2012, before that the account was blocked in 2011, in 2012, 257 days total with interruptions. Since Smederevska Palanka's account was blocked, in order to get the money out of Smederevska Palanka became Serbia's kind of champion, and probably a wider region because they had as many as 19 public enterprises, because as one goes bankrupt, as money is drawn from one, so the other opens and so on, so on. 19. All public institutions, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Smederjevska Palanca had a blocked account, including schools, health homes and for non-belief, including a cemetery. It's about taking care of the citizens. You couldn't take care of the basic needs of a small Smederjevska Palanka, but you have the nerve to speak about how to run the financial and fiscal policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Well, if you didn't, God forbid, I believe all of Serbia would be in water restrictions. I believe that, I suppose, because it was painted only for all of Serbia, that the account of the Republic of Serbia would be blocked, as would all public enterprises, all schools, all hospitals, all homes of health, all cemeterys in Serbia. Everything would be blocked. We've been struggling with stained vessels since I became Minister in August 2016 for the state administration and local self-government to somehow help Smederjevska Palanca and the citizens of Smederevska Palanka. Thanks to budget cuts, because there's nothing left there, we've managed to repair the water system and re-introduce water for the citizens of Smederjev Palanka. Just about a month ago, we transferred from the Republic of Serbia's current budget reserve funds to pay back an Intesi debt, which was fortunately, and Intessa was the only bank that wanted Smederjevska Palanci to borrow some money because no one else wanted to, because they saw that no one else had. Intesa borrowed, we managed to negotiate with the Intes bank to write off part of the debt and all interest, transferred 70 million dinars from the current budget reserve to Smederevska Palanca to pay back the debt of Intesa bank just so the interest would not go any further, and we agreed that 150 million dinars would write off. So let's really just be a little bit more careful about that concern for the citizens because some people really shouldn't talk about citizens when they blacked out a little local self-government that the whole Republic is working for those citizens today to give them basic living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37481	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37482	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning, I would like to point out that I will be very brief. The authorised SNS representative, Mrs Tomic, provided very precise information when it comes to the state of public finances and macroeconomic indicators. Many of my colleagues in the debate so far presented the results achieved by Sinisa Mali at the office of mayor of Belgrade, and the results are undeniable and, most importantly, they are visible. Anyone today can see that Belgrade is a far more beautiful city than it was at a time when it was run by others, that municipal services function incomparably better than before, that tourism is on a much higher level than it was when these experts led Belgrade to build more, to invest more in infrastructure, to take more care of sensitive population categories, that in every sense Belgrade today is a better place to live than it was. These are, among other things, the results of Sinisha the Little. But we have some other results. We have the results of a previous speaker in the Smederjevska Palanca. We're having affairs, they don't know their numbers, dozens of affairs. The abandoned budget of the municipality, sucking money out of public enterprises and an institution whose municipality is the founder. Four billion dinars, as we heard, losses, minuses and debts left behind. He left the city without electricity, left the city without water, left the citizens of the Smederjev Palace in complete despair and hopelessness. During that time, he filled his pockets and pockets with his party associates. I understand why he won't support the selection of Cynthia the Little. If he were to ask himself, the candidate, or finance minister, would be Serbia's Sisavac, probably from Smederjevska Palanka, with whom he spent money together through football clubs. He's talking about lunch. He says, "How many lunches could it have been?" So four billion dinars. If we take, for example, one snack is 100 dinars, that's 40 million snackes. He left every child in Serbia without a snack by robbing the Smederjevska Palanca for four billion dinars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are choosing a new finance minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The reason for this is the resignation of the current minister, Mr Vujovic. I would like to thank him in my own way and this time, because it is a person who has contributed significantly to the fiscal consolidation and recovery of public finances and economic and economic growth of Serbia. Serbia today is not an extremity patient, which is artificially maintained on machines, as it was at a time when others, and those who worship us today, led or exercised power in our country. Today we have a primarily spotless state of public finances, a continuous reduction in public debt and GDP growth, which we have heard about. Inflation is far less than it was in your time. The course is far more stable than it was when they led the state. Unemployment is at a historic minimum, as a colleague earlier noted well, so less than 13% at the moment, and I will remind you that at a time when we took responsibility for the exercise of power, it was over 26% at the level of the Republic. Serbia is far more appreciated today in every sense. Not to mention that it's a record tax charge and that for the first time some economic operators started paying taxes, and years back they didn't pay taxes, nor did anyone even ask the question of their non-taxation. And, as I said I'd be very brief, I just want to conclude that from everything I've said, I want to support the selection of Cynthia Little as finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37483	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37484	Today's debate began in fact this morning by Prime Minister Mrs. Ana Brnabic, with quite inappropriate commendations on the account of the candidate for Minister Sinishi Malo and then during the day, we were mostly listening to criticism from the MPs of the new, old DOS. Of course, various affairs were mentioned, and even some of the personal matters of the candidate for minister, but what is interesting is that the MPs of this new, old DOS, Sinisha Mali, were critical of the period when they elected him to important state functions. The second thing that's interesting is that the government MPs didn't exactly race to defend Sinisha Mali, which is quite unusual, but well, it's your inside party thing and we're not going to do it, I'm just noticing. The portfolio of finance since this regime, this is the third, fourth term, has somehow served as an experiment so far, and that was not good. It was first experimented with a famous Yale expert who went missing somewhere. They say he stayed as a counselor, but we don't know what he's doing, what he does and so on, and we all remember how much he promised what he'd do, we'll blossom. Then a World Bank expert, this Dusan Vujovic, who, behold, resigned and, imagine, he is announcing himself as an adviser. I recommend, Mr. Mali, don't take him as a counselor, he won't give you any good advice, because what he did is certainly not good for Serbia or for the citizens of Serbia. We Serbian radicals also think from the beginning, from the address of our president, we will continue to discuss this, we think that Serbia is in a difficult situation, that we are threatened with serious dangers, that this pressure to solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija on the nose, something that can produce bad and difficult consequences and we think for this reason, Mrs Brnabic, that it was necessary to reconstruct this government, that this moment when Serbia must have one serious, responsible, courageous, patriotic government. Many ministers or at least one number of ministers in the current government are not. We specifically said that you should remove Zorana Mihajlovic from the government, that you should remove Zlatibor Lončar. When it comes to this candidate for the minister, Mr. Mali, you praised the situation in Belgrade. Well, not really, they don't bloom in Belgrade. Some of the things you said are like that, but a lot of things aren't that great. What we think should draw attention to Sinisha Malom, who will be from tomorrow or the day after tomorrow the finance minister, is that he is waiting for serious business in that ministry, that there are many unfinished and serious things in that vault. What we just heard, let's say, is the state of tax in the Administration of Income, believe me, income management is a chaotic state. The Administration of the Income Administration is a state in the country. You know, if another body, such as the PIO Fund, asks for a certain document from the Administration of Revenue to be there for someone who deals with or deals with a small economy, solves the status, per year and a half, waiting for assurance from the Administration of Revenue, with no idea how many interventions in the meantime. There may have been an increase in billing for legal persons, but there is something that finally needs to be taken seriously in this country, the possibility of reducing taxes to natural persons. How? By paying everyone the tax to pay. That's not the case. Can you imagine in one residential building, in one entrance, taxes are paid by family from apartment number seven, nine, 12, 17, I'm talking about, the rest don't pay. Is it possible that there's an official, digitizing Mrs. Brnabic, sitting there and he doesn't notice that the same address, the same number, that at least 17 apartments must have, he doesn't have 20, how many there are, but at least 17 has to count them? Do you need inspectors? You hire people, you send inspectors to the field. There is no people here, as much as you talk about increasing this and that, there is no more to pay this people than it is to pay for neither electricity nor water nor taxes. The real average salary in Serbia is 210 euros. Let go of your 430. Two hundred ten euros receive a million people in Serbia and with those 210 euros, or so on, millions of people feed the family. At least, where you can, cut taxes by taxing all those who need to pay taxes. You have another serious task, Mr. Mali. What the president of the state promised about pensions, he's the president of the state, he can promise whatever he wants, because it's not his jurisdiction, and then there's no responsibility. Your jurisdiction will be from tomorrow, and then it means responsibility. Join a good lawyer, Mr. Sinisha Mali, a good lawyer who will explain to you, if one law has ceased to apply for a certain period of time, when that time has passed, so that law continues to apply, then first all the consequences resulting from the non-application of that law must be removed. So, you still owe it when one day, if in November, if next year, comes into effect, you have to make sure that you don't solve the problem that has arisen because you unconstitutionally passed a pension reduction law. Next, they told you, Mr. Mali, that you have some offshore companies, etc. We have a different relationship to it. Here, we recommend that you take advantage of your experience from the offshore company and make some offshore zones in Serbia, so that we can develop Serbia. Imagine how Serbia would develop and bloom if, for example, the offshore zone were in southeastern Serbia, in eastern Serbia, in border areas. Why shouldn't all those who have money bring money to Serbia? Why would there be a need for our people to go to these legitimately suspicious, whatever they call them, some markets? So you have something to do if you take this obligation seriously. The first task, Mr. Mali, that you have to do, if you want to seriously start this job is to finally make a draft budget law, that is to finally see that final budget account so that we can believe that the state of the budget is as it is presented to us. As long as we don't see it, you can say whatever you want, say you've spent or saved as much as you want, until we see how it's really untrustworthy we can trust you. And, of course, we will not vote in favour of Anna Brnabic's proposal that you be elected minister, but we hope that you will accept all our suggestions, for the sake of better functioning of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37485	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37486	I thank the chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we are discussing the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a member of the Government, that is, the Minister of Finance is a good opportunity to recall the results of the work of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period. The objective of the Government of Aleksandra Vukic in 2014. In the years she has set up, and where the government of Ana Brnabic has worked hard, it has been achieved. The crisis of public finances no longer exists, and the situation that we have in the Republic of Serbia's budget today is evidence of hard work, work, knowledge, above all knowledge. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance led a transparent but primarily responsible policy of planning income and expenditure over the previous years. Behind us is a period of difficult fiscal consolidation measures, which primarily allowed the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget to allocate 128 billion for investments and that is what the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance are responsible for. Thanks to such a policy, we can talk today about abolishing the Law on Temporary Pension Reduction, or raising pensions. We can talk today about increasing wages, talking about the measures of the population policy that the state of Serbia is taking, but also about the relief that the state of Serbia has for the first time offered for beginners in business, i.e. for those who start their own business. The macroeconomic and fiscal stability achieved in the previous period allowed for the construction of kilometers of highways, allowed many kindergartens, schools, clinical centres, hospitals to be reconstructed and renovated, to open 170,000 new jobs in Serbia. That the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance are leading a good budgetary policy, the world international organisations have also confirmed, above all I mean the IMF and the World Bank. In fact, Serbia successfully completed a three-year arrangement with the IMF, which gave additional credibility to economic policy measures. It is primarily important because many international institutions, but above all investors, are following an IMF assessment, because this assessment is a signal and a call for investors whether they will invest in a particular country or not. Also, the World Bank estimated that Serbia is now a stable and secure country for investment. As a result of the overall macroeconomic picture of Serbia, we have in 2017 and 2018 the strengthening of the dinar. Our dinar is the second best currency in the world in the past year and we have managed to get from the position of the fourth worst currency, to the second best currency in the world, in the previous period and it was assessed by one of the most creditable media agencies "Blumberg". This is the result of the joint work of the NBS, the Ministry of Finance and also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the course of the dinar is actually a reflection of the situation in the economy. Which is why a stable course of dinar is important and what it means for Serbian citizens and for Serbia's economy is unnecessary to speak, I just want to highlight my impression when visiting Prime Minister Ana Brnabic Leskovac a company, a domestic company that employs 250 workers. On the question of the prime minister, what is it that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do to help the company, the domestic company to expand its capacities, was that the company's owner's response was enough that the state of Serbia provided a stable course of dinars, because, above all, for companies dealing mainly with exports, huge losses were based on exchange rates. As a result of the difficult fiscal consolidation measures in the previous period, we have measures to encourage mothers to give birth, i.e. measures to encourage birth, and this is the first government of the Republic of Serbia to be able to work to increase birth, thanks to the effects that, fiscal consolidation, have been achieved in the previous period. Also, in the next period, we are expected to see the suspension of the Law on Temporary Pension Reduction, i.e. an increase in pensions and what is most important for us from the SNS is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, have managed to provide an increase for the poorest citizens, for the poorest pensioners, and for the 5%. But what is also most important is that this increase is planned, above all, from real sources, because I will remind Serbian citizens that during the period when Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy, 59% of pensions were paid out of Serbia's budget. Today pension grants are 31% and that is almost twice as much as in the previous period, and above all thanks to factories that are being opened throughout our beautiful country of Serbia. A large number of factories are also opening in southern Serbia. The factories are opened in Vranja, Leskovac, Vladic's Han, Grdelica, Vlasotinac, Niša, Žitorajji etc. But what it takes is for even greater financial resources to be invested in southern Serbia, as the south of Serbia has been devastated for years. With the 2018 budget, significant funds are planned for southern Serbia, but also for the capital projects of the town of Leskovci from which I come and whose citizens I represent in this high house. Also, the government of the Republic of Serbia has had seclusions for southern Serbia beyond what the ministries finance. My expectations from the future finance minister are that when we meet again here sometime in December, the 2019 budget will plan an even greater funding for southern Serbia and the town of Leskovac, given that we will have an ever-increasing and better state in the state register. Also, the funds allocated for the construction of Corridor 10 are reviving southern Serbia thanks to fiscal consolidation measures, as what share of the highway ends, so do investors. As the final result of the work of the Ministry of Finance in the previous period, we have a surplus in the budget at the end of 2017 and certainly a rapid decline in public debt. So the future minister comes to a much better position. Public finances in Serbia are stabilised. What is the job of the future minister is to maintain this state of affairs and to continue through reforms that have been launched and to work and continue through dynamic economic growth. What I'm saying is that candidate biography for finance minister is impressive. We had a chance today to hear a lot from my colleagues coming from Belgrade. What is more important is that during its term of office, the debt of Belgrade has been halved, that 25,000 people have been employed, that it has begun and ended with the realization of many major and important projects, that the deficit has been reduced four times, and in the end, the assessment of how or how Sinisa Mali led Belgrade has been given by citizens in previous elections, and the citizens said he did it well. Finally, I just want to take the opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister in the way he defends his proposal today, to wish the future finance minister a great deal of success in my work and to ask once again to continue to treat southern Serbia and future finance minister and Prime Minister as they have done so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37487	The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37488	Thank you. Respected Prime Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, Mr Sinisa Mali has proved to love Belgrade by joining him responsibly and diligently. Serbia's capital, our Belgrade, has made much progress at the time of his term of office. He proved that responsible fiscal policy was being conducted at the time the city of Belgrade was historically the most in debt. A huge success is at every turn. In just four unfulfilled years, 930km of new water supply and 138km of sewerage network were carried out. More than 536 roads have been paved. In 2017 66,000 people were employed. 1,100 construction sites have been opened. Arranged parks, restored 200 façades, built children's playgrounds, homes of health, schools, kindergartens, outdoor gyms, organized public lighting and, of course, all in 11 municipalities and, of course, in my municipality of New Belgrade. A new house called "Ikea" has been opened. The issue of building permits goes faster and higher. The square in Slavia was renovated. Renovated streets, senior cards with 10% to 50% discount. The city of Belgrade has been provided from the budget by 172 families of internally displaced people. In two years, 171 Roma families were taken care of. Recording a small number of unemployed in the last ten years. The "Belgrade on Water", railway station "Prokop", sewerage to Palilula after 25 years. A project to build and build on yours. Belgrade has reduced its debt by 500m euros and we have more and more tourists. Last year we had almost a million tourists in Belgrade, and in the first quarter of 2018 19% higher compared to the record year 2017. It's not words, it's deeds. Being Minister of Finance is a very important job. Serbia has never been closer to completing reforms. We have achieved great success since 2014. We have macroeconomic stability and the acceleration of economic growth, which is expected to stabilise to about 4%, annually in the medium term, based on the existing level of investment, innovation and productivity. I know Mr. Sinisha Mali will retain the financial discipline of our Serbia, because she knows Serbia's economy very well. Also, I know that he will fight every day for the benefit of Serbia's citizens because he has proved it for the citizens of Belgrade. I support Sinishi Mali's election as finance minister, and I would also like to thank him as a NBobeogradian for everything he's done for New Belgrade and for visiting and speaking to the Novobeu citizens more than once, not only talking, but everything he has promised he has done as well as all 11 municipalities of this beautiful Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37489	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37490	Thank you. I mean, I haven't been here all day, but from what I've seen, my opposition colleagues have given a lot of thought that the proposed candidate is not the right person for that function. I disagree and think Sinisa Mali is a real candidate for Finance Minister in the government of Ana Brnabic, and that he is the real symbol of the power of Aleksandr Vukic. I don't think there's any doubt about it and there's a lot of qualifications, details from his biography, both school, student, postgraduate, and both of his brother-in-law and on all sides. Some details only. It's one government, one government that wants to tell you fairy tales and make sure you're feeling better because you're listening to fairy tales. When she tells you that unemployment is now down from 26% to 13%, as the prime minister said, then she won't tell you that it's a lie, or that it's the result of a change in the methodology of monitoring unemployment, because now it's done by making a survey of whether you did it one day a month, so if you worked one day a month, they take you off the bureau. That's part of it. The second part is that many young people who were at the Bureau fled this country, realizing that there is no way they could see their future. That's one of the lies. The second lie is that it's reduced public debt from 14 billion to 24 billion. This is the only country in the world where 24 is less than 14. A moment ago, the prime minister tried to explain to us that this is so that if you owe yourself 100 dinars per interest of 7% a year, and then you get a better loan of 100 dinars at 4.5%, then you pay back the one of 100 dinars with more interest that you did a good deed. And that's true. If only it were true. If that were a fact, but if you took a credit under more favourable conditions to repay a loan that was taken under poor conditions, then that credit, or total debt, is at least the same, but cannot possibly be increased by 70% and something. They also tell you that it's great that we were in front of bankruptcy, which of course didn't happen in Europe for any country and not because the previous government was much better, but because it's practically impossible. There are many other methods of solving the issue of empty cash registers, whether PIO, any other funds, and this is the same government only a little younger worked in the 1990s when it designed hyperinflation, when in one different way it destroyed its population and pensioners and people in the public sector and everything else. Therefore, the fact that pensioners were kidnapped three billion or more than three billion euros for these four years and employees in health care, education, state administration, military, police and culture over three billion is something that is a fact. The fact that pensions were returned to the 2014 level, that's not true. It's just someone said it would be. That the law on temporary pension cuts will be abolished, and that law is an incredible wisdom. That 18 phenomenal, best law school students in Serbia, takes them 100 years to solve it, and this government will take a year. The law should read - the law should be abolished. If you need help, I'm going to find some of those fissures that can write that bill, or someone from the opposition is going to write that law. But if you want to end the pension-stealing law, do it today by writing a law that abolishes the law of theft that was passed four years ago. Why is Little an adequate candidate? I know when Vesic was Mali and I know when Mali was Vesic, so I think a lot of people know that, too. How does he get into that atmosphere completely? Let it be an affair, since nothing has been ruled in court, the Doctorate affair, violence in Savala and at home, apartments in Bulgaria who know where, the tree we heard about exhaustively exhibiting the prime minister, I think it is the most inspired, most professional and historical speech that some Serbian prime minister has said, which is a recent lecture on trees across Europe, the Middle East and the United States. That's really awesome. I hear some strange noises, and that's probably due to the echo. So I'm saying that these are affairs like many other affairs. Not to mention Belgrade on water, no mubadala chips, no "SISU" FAP, no "Icarbus" "Mercedes". It's all affairs that are open and that's true. And that's true. And that's true. I have to thank the citizens of Serbia for the same time as yesterday when there was something here that looked like a parade, but from cartoons, where some are scrambling around the fountain in uniforms, where some swear to me that I don't know what, at the same time, and not just yesterday...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37491	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37492	For just ten more seconds, good news is for Serbian citizens. A serious group of police people, a serious group of people from the D.A.'s office, are already doing investigations for all of this, and the results of these investigations will be seen by Serbian citizens after the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37493	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37494	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the time has come for thin televisions and fat cheeks, which is exactly what you could see and hear. He said the masks fell, there's no mask like that for his head. He needs a special mask. A mask that goes on an empty head. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, he said that young people are running away, and not everyone can get the 525 thousand euros he gets to stay and raise vineyards. He sold the wine town. In the EU, the subsidy participates in agricultural income 30%, only 7% in Serbia, and that will have to be fixed by the finance minister. Look at the wonders, Mr. Zivkovic had a 300% subsidy. So three times more subsidies than it cost the vineyard. If the young people had received 525 thousand euros, they certainly wouldn't have done this. These are, future finance ministers, tax administration records. The company is called "M Press". Her director was Zoran Zivkovic. Tax evasion, 89 million was worth, 138,000 bottles of wine are gone, probably sold on black. VAT is 17 million 948 thousand, interest four million 430 thousand until 29.1.2016. Now figure out how much that is now. Second leak, a million 894 grand for the same firm plus interest. That's what about 35 million dinars come in today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37495	Bring the end of my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37496	At the end of the day, I don't know where the 138 thousand bottles of wine went, but I suspect he drank it all himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37497	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk ambassador Goran Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37498	Dear Mr Sinisha, you will defend the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you will defend the economic laws that come in the coming period, you must get used to this work by the Assembly. On my right, you will usually have accusations, something that does not matter to the economy, something that will try to offend you, but you as well as the prime minister and president of Serbia, as we do, have our own goal, and our goal is Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Prime Minister, Serbia is today choosing a new minister, but is not choosing a new economic policy. Serbia was through its history faced with numerous economic ideas from left to right when between the two world wars we had a state monopoly, differentiations that were a monopoly, when after World War II we had privatisations that were completed today, and previously had factories for workers in the 1960s, i.e. confiscation and nationalisation, Serbia did not grow economically. The economic parameters that talk about the strength of a nation, and we are talking about it today, not personal perceptions, but we are choosing the Serbian finance minister, the state in Europe, are based on macroeconomic parameters. These key macroeconomic parameters in Serbia have never been good. Should we talk about 1923 when Milan Stojadinovic was trying to save the Kingdom of Yugoslavia from hyperinflation? The bright sixties when inflation was 10% from 1960 to 1965, and in 1965, 25% from the 1990s in the first ten years of the 21st century when inflation was 10%? Prime Minister, economists, whether there is a nation, an economy that can function when one of the key macroeconomic parameters is such that it tells you that you have no monetary stability and any other economic stability. In 2014, the budget deficit is 6.5%. General insolvency at the level of the Republic of Serbia's budget, Mr. Mali knows, at the bar level, not only in Belgrade, the unemployment rate is 25% without any prospect of GDP growth. In 2014, the Council adopted The SNS makes a series of key decisions, but it is a key decision by Alexander Vukic to collect courage, courage and change Serbia and tell her that you can no longer sell property to feed, to borrow to pay for wages and pensions, that you can't spend more than you earn. That, of course, was difficult for one layer of people who belonged to the previous authorities. Just so you're saying, that's courage, to make a team and start changing Serbia, even bigger, and you don't have support. Today, when we choose a new finance minister in 2018, it's history. History and white tents. The prime minister, the union, when we passed the Labour Act, here, is history and the IMF and contract with the IMF that says that at the end of 2017 we will have a systemic deficit of 2.7% to 2.9%, it will be great. We had a surplus a long time ago. History is also the Fiscal Council, which told us in March of last year that we should make a programme of how public debt is going to be around 2020, about 60%. History is written by brave, and economic, Serbian history is written by Aleksandar Vukic, a team of SNS and people who believed. None of us remember more than two, three economic ministers, can remember their contemporaries, mostly Serbs don't remember them for the good. Minister Vujovic, they say, is one of the best finance ministers. It can stop, I think, in line with Laza Pachua. But both he and Lazar Pachu were part of a team, part of a team that changed Serbia, one at the beginning of the 20th century, the second at the beginning of the 21st century. Unreal today, from 2015, it seems when you say, and you said that we have a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget, that the public debt of the general state is 59.9%, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia's budget is 59%, we're on the master's side. We have a 4.5% GDP growth in the first three months, which is the second GDP growth in Europe. You have an inflation rate ranging from 1.1 to 1.6, the European inflation rate. You have, ladies and gentlemen, as never in Serbia's history three years without budget rebalances. You have 3% of the reference interest rate and never greater issuances of the Serbian state for pensions and social benefits. Successfully, theoretically, combined with two principles. Full freedom in all possible markets, and, of course, state interventionism, on the principle of investment. For being forced. That's the behavior in the world today. In fact, in a theoretical sense, we're making a combination between Canes and Stridman, and it works, it works, it results. Prime Minister, future minister, that was yesterday. Tomorrow's a new day. Today, the new macroeconomic challenges in Serbia will be even bigger. It seems to me that for the first time in Serbia's history, when we talk about macroeconomic problems, we are actually talking about problems that can come from the outside. I think that the key challenges that will mark your mandate are, hopefully, not to extend, above all, the problems that arise in the financial market, or currency wars, that one of the major problems, and the Serbian government has to find a mechanism to know that we will react at the moment when the ECS or the Euribor is starting to grow, is 0.5 or 0.75 or 1%, when prices of fossil fuels due to instability in the world begin to rise. No one mentioned today the key problem that is being opened, and I think there is insufficient labour force in the labour market. I know the economists will tell me, yes, we will solve it by productivity, but the demonopolization of all sectors and I address you as prime minister, because in principle, not sectors concerning the work of the future minister, it's education, monopolization in health, in the public sector, essentially pushes GDP, I guess by 0.5% and retains young people to open their companies. That's what the IMF tells you in the discussions we've had, demonopolization opens up new jobs and pushes GDP forward. Mr. Sinisa, no one said today, the Fiscal Council says, quote - Belgrade's public finances are being arranged. The revenue and expenditures are arranged. That's what the Fiscal Council says, which is very often not good, maybe sometimes we find SNS, honest intentions, but when the Fiscal Council tells you, it's not just a recommendation enough, it's your place as finance minister. If the Fiscal Council said you worked in Belgrade and did what you did, then it's a result of knowledge and respect, you're part of the team. If I were you, the mayor's place wasn't easy to play. Nothing was easier than a minister of finance. You've shown that you know, and that's why you deserve to become Minister of Finance. When I talked about the challenges, I talked about external challenges, but I am aware enough to know that the most dangerous challenge that can be in Serbia, as far as macroeconomic policy from Serbia is concerned, is from ourselves. That someone believes they can bring Serbia back, that they can apply some bad economic model that we've suffered on their skin for decades and meet where we used to be, that's a key challenge. Our responsibility, you said well, we did not inherit Switzerland, it is great, but our responsibility is crucial that we do nothing to not change the situation we inherited. Our results say we're doing things and we're on the right track. Prime Minister, tomorrow we will vote for the election of a new minister, the SNS will of course vote for the election of a new minister, but tomorrow when we vote for the election of a new minister, we are in fact continuing an old economic policy that has produced clear results in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37499	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37500	I thank the chairman. Dear Prime Minister, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nisa, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I am an MP for the United Peasant Party elected on the SNS list, and I voted for you when you were a candidate for Prime Minister because I believe in you, and that is why I will speak always promotional, because I really believe you, because you have the will and desire for our Serbia to go better, faster and to make progress. Mr. Sinisa Mali, who is the candidate for the minister you are proposing, I will vote him with all my heart because he managed to get Belgrade out of trouble because he has invested in other areas of Belgrade, because he has invested in the village as well. I come from Svrlig, I speak for all those people living in that area, for southeastern Serbia, and believe me, it's quite difficult there, but together we all, our President Vukic, you Prime Minister, future Finance Ministers expect us to continue to work, to build in southeastern Serbia, to work and to invest in agriculture, to develop agriculture, because believe me, without the development of agriculture, there is no development in Serbia either. I am sure that the finance minister in the coming period, together with our Prime Minister, will have both the will and the desire, but also the obligation to allocate more resources to undeveloped areas, to work on infrastructure, to solve water problems, to travel infrastructure, to employ people through the Ministry of Economy, but for all of us, it is important to invest in youth, to invest in birth. And, the president of the state, Mr. Vukic has indicated and we expect a very quick bill that will stimulate birth in Serbia. Through a programme to stimulate the birth of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it will help to do more, and I expect it will have a certain percentage and more funding for those parents who will create their families in southeastern Serbia, Srljiga, Gajino Han, Beli Palanca, Sokobanja, Knjizvac, Zaguvica and those small areas. I'm sure by stimulating us, we'll have the chance to keep people alive there. Once again, I, as an MP of the United Peasants' Party, will support you once again as Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, because I am sure we will have the strength and opportunity to bring back, together with our president, Mr. Vukic, a smile to our people living in southeastern Serbia, who live in small areas living in our villages. Let us give support to our women who live in the country, who are left to live there, who are giving birth to children, and something else is very important, as of July 1st, the law will also be able to work, or the law will apply to women in the country, for the first time for the birth of their children. That's something that hasn't happened before. Once again, I thank the Prime Minister, I am sure we will continue to work for southeastern Serbia, that we will employ our people in southeastern Serbia, and thus develop our country for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-28-0.u37501	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10.00. [[The session was suspended at 20.00 hours.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 15th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word.
