ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-15-0.u42829	Honorable Members of the Government, the Honorable Mayor of Belgrade, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 19th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. As you know, I have called this special session to address the National Assembly of Njeg's Excellency, the Vice President of India and the chairman of the Council of the States of the NJ. E. M. Venkaya Naidu. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly, His Excellency, Mr. M. Venkay Naidu. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the delegation of the Republic of India, the president and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the mayor of Belgrade, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia, who attend today's session. I now ask His Excellency, Mr. M. Venkaya Naidu, to address us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-15-0.u42830	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Majo Gojkovic, distinguished ministers, distinguished deputies, distinguished guests, members of a delegation that is with me from India, from different political parties, one of them is State Finance Minister Mr. Shiv Pratap Šukla, the other four are MPs from both homes of parliament. There's Mr. Pig Acharya. He is one of the ruling parties in parliament. Also, there's Mrs. Vajilla Satianant from the south of India. Then there is Mrs. Sarodj Pandey, from the Upper House and a member of the ruling party. There's Mr. Ragav Lakanpal. Good afternoon, I'm here with my delegation today, in front of all of you, and it is a great honor and pleasure that this session has been specifically called to allow me, Vice President of India, to address you. I am truly honored and privileged to be with all of you today on this special day of this special year and in this special place. Today is a special day because it's International Day of Democracy. This year is special because it marks 70 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Serbia. This place is special because it's historic, because in 1961 nations met, decided to establish the Movement of Unclassified. It is good to remind that India and then Yugoslavia were pioneers of the movement, which is called the Movement of Unclassified. So I'm saying that for three reasons today, this is a special event. We share common views on many issues. We have deeper mutual understandings that bring us closer together. I'm very honored by the invitation to address myself in this home. I thank you for the kind invitation and warm hospitality sent to me and the members of my delegation during this visit. As I was saying, I have members of the ruling party and other officers here with me. We really want to bring greetings and best wishes from the people of India to the respected leaders of Serbia and the great friends of India who are present in this house, as well as to the people of Serbia. Sisters and brothers, both Serbia and India are committed to democratic values and the need to constantly cultivate a democratic spirit, in order to improve the quality of life of our peoples. Serbia has a long history of the National Assembly and the Constitution, one of the oldest in Europe to begin in the 19th century. We Indians, since we firmly believe in parliamentary democracy, are very impressed with Serbia's strong parliamentary tradition. This impressive building of the National Assembly, which was built, as I was told almost 100 years ago, truly depicts Serbia's rich parliamentary heritage. I must honestly tell you that I'm really impressed by the architecture of this building, but it's not just the architecture of this building that's impressive. What is equally important is the architecture of this path that created ideas and made this building an important landmark in the annals of modern world history. This is where the First Summit of the Unclassified 1961 was held. The then Prime Minister of India, Pandid Nehru and other world leaders of the Unclassified Movement addressed the summit right in this historic hall. Of course, there was then the leader of Yugoslavia, Marshal Tito. Relations between India and Serbia are deeply rooted in history. Since the early independence days of India, both countries have paid great attention to the Unclassified Movement and have contributed greatly to the creation of a new and democratic world order, particularly important to the post-colonial third world, which has threatened the concept of the bipolar world. Many high-level visits between our two countries during that period testify precisely to this mutual belief. Marshall Tito was a known name in many Indian households. I've often heard his name during my student days. I was a high school student, not even in college, but in high school, and that name was often heard in India. He was really famous for starting the Unclassified Movement with others. I am aware that Marshal Tito addressed the India Parliament during his visit in 1954 and thus the parliaments of our two countries had the privilege and the benefit of learning from each other. I am glad that such dialogue continues through the parliamentary group of friendships with India, which exists in the National Assembly. Dear sisters and brothers, allow me to share a few words with you at this place of merger about India's parliamentary system. Since this parliamentary system is the largest democracy in the world, India's parliament is the supreme, most legislative body of the Republic of India. It is a two-cameral legislative body made up of two homes, so Raja Saba, the Council of States and Lok Saba, the House of Nations, which is directly elected by the people. As Vice-President of India, I also have the post and chair of Raja Saba, and I am also helping the president of India, given that I am the vice president of the country. Raja Saba is our Upper House, or Council of States. I have a very long experience in our parliamentary system. I became an MP for the Legislative Assembly of my State, which is one province, 40 years ago, in 1978, I have been an MP to Raja Saba, the Upper House of Parliament since 1958. I was also the Minister of Parliamentary Affairs in India, and I also served other ministerial duties from 2014 to 2016. I was the minister under the leadership of Modi's previous prime minister. While Serbia has a one-man parliament, the federal structure of India requires a two-man body for the countries to be adequately represented, we are one huge country. Over the years, the Indian Parliament has developed into a democratic forum that listens carefully to fascinating, complex voices of people from different parts of our vast country and is skillfully responding to the various reasons they have for concern. By fostering participatory democracy, our parliament has been a means of introducing social change and development by adopting advanced legislation. We are focused on preserving the spirit of democracy by putting people, people in the center of development architecture. So I repeat, putting people in the center of development architecture, and that's the beauty of parliamentary democracy, that's the beauty we're trying to create. Sisters and brothers, we are also celebrating today the International Day of Democracy, which has been declared by the UN on 8 November 2007. Introductory words of the UN Charter, I quote: “We, peoples, are now upholding the basic principles of democracy, which is that the will of the people is the source of the legitimacy of the nations. “Kautilia, one of the prominent politicians of ancient India, said in his thesis entitled “Arta Shastra,” quotes: “The kings’ happiness should be, that they lie only in the happiness of the people of the kingdom, and not in another factor. “ It’s a famous quote. The legitimacy of a king or sovereign state essentially stems from the ability to respond to the will and aspirations of the people to their needs and reasons for their concerns. Popular democracy and representative institutions are neither entirely foreign to India nor from recently. The history of the democratic tradition of India actually goes back to the Vedic era. Vede, the oldest knowledge review in several places points to congregations of the people, known as Saba and Samiti at the time. During the post-election period, republics known to the people, such as Ganaradzija or Sanga, functioned as self-government institutions. We all know that the essential elements of democracy, the values of freedom, respect for human rights and the principles of maintaining periodic and true elections where there is a general right to vote. India has adopted this general right to vote for all citizens over 21 years of age, and since 1951, the people of India have chosen their representatives in legislative bodies in the free and fair electoral process. The election turnout has had stable growth over the past 64 years, from 44.87% in 1951 to 66.4% in 2014. It should be mentioned that 65.6% of voters in the last 2014 elections were women. In India, we have a parliament, we have a circuit assembly, we have local bodies, and I am glad to share with you that a third of our deputies are in some countries, and half of the MPs in some other countries are women. It is one percent that we are even trying to increase in all parliaments. Saying enough about India's parliamentary system and India's democracy, allow me to return to the relationship between India and Serbia. The interaction between the peoples of India and Serbia, of course, is not limited to the period after India's independence. Long before that, the interaction between the people of these two parts of the world has contributed greatly to their intellectual and cultural capital. The interaction between the renowned Serbian innovator, inventor Nikola Tesla and the great spiritual leader of India, Swami Vivekananda, is one such example. I mean, the ideas of Swami Vivekananda have left a great mark on Nikola Tesla's work. I am glad that the "Post-Serbia" and "Post-India" respected this in the right way and together issued memorial stamps with characters of these two visionaries. They both had a great vision for all mankind. They were creative geniuses who left a lasting impact on the world. One was an example of exceptional innovations in the field of physics, and the other was a spiritual leader, who explained the metaphysical realities of the world. That's what paints great people. Sisters and brothers, both Serbia and India have gone through difficult times in recent history, but they have come out of each of these crises as stronger because we had to encourage reforms. Economic reforms in India and Serbia in the 1990s have effectively turned some of the biggest challenges into opportunities. Our two countries have always supported each other in matters of utmost interest. Serbia has faced and still faces challenges for its sovereignty and territorial integrity. India always has a principled stance on this and supports Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. India strongly believes that Kosovo's issue should be resolved by peaceful means, consultations and dialogue. India is also satisfied with the principled support it receives from Serbia on several essential issues, such as India's application for membership in the Nuclear Suppliers Group. I am glad that Serbia shares India's views on the need to reform the UN, especially the UN Security Council. It is necessary for it to expand further democratisation. Our two countries also agree that terrorism is one of the biggest threats to international peace and security. There is an urgent need to strengthen the global and legislative framework for the fight against terrorism in order to eradicate this monster by speeding up the completion of a comprehensive UN Convention on International Terrorism. Terrorism is the enemy of the people towards us. People try to cover crimes under religion, but terrorism has nothing to do with religion, with religion, it's against humanity, and all humanity has to fight this monster, because peace is the basis for any progress. The basics and the peace go hand in hand. If you want to secure peace, you must get rid of terror. Thank you. In recent years, our bilateral relations have reached an extremely high level. In January 2017, Njeg's Excellency, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, the Honored President of Serbia visited India as Serbian Prime Minister. This was really a historic visit. It was the first visit to India from Belgrade, at the level of the heads of state or head of government, after 30 years. Also, for nearly three decades there were no high-level visits on the Indian side. With my visit, I would like to stress India's great desire to maintain close ties with Serbia through high-level engagements. During last year's visit to President Vukic to India, Serbia took part in Vibrant Gujarati's global summit. I am pleased that Serbia again participated in another major event in India, the World Food India Food Industry Fair in New South Delhi in November of last year. Agriculture is a major business activity, both in India and Serbia and we can really use the expertise and knowledge of each other in the agricultural and food sectors. Over 50% of the Indian population depends on agriculture, and I say agriculture is the main branch of our industry and our economy, and we make sure that agriculture is protected and valued. I'm glad that here and in this country agriculture is something that is very important and that you have great expertise in this regard. The prominent first Deputy Prime Minister and Serbian Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic visited India in May this year. During the meeting he had with me, I am glad that I had the opportunity to learn about the steps that our two countries are taking to further strengthen our bilateral relations. I was particularly pleased to learn that last year Serbia abolished visas for the short-term stay of all Indian passports carriers. It's a really big step and the people of India are grateful for it. Our bilateral trade exchange at an annual level is currently about 200 million US dollars. There's no doubt that this is far below the right potential. There is still a need for special delegations to visit to increase our bilateral trade exchange. Although there is a need to improve our bilateral trade exchange, it is necessary to invest one and the other in our countries in a more innovative approach and to strengthen our economic ties. In this context, new examples of foreign investment are also new positive developments. The company from India bought a large Serbian tractor company. This can contribute to the production of high-quality agricultural machinery in Serbia, with reasonable costs and certainly help Serbia's agricultural sector. An Indian company founded an IT park in Serbia. The strength of the IT sector in India is recognised by the global level. Serbia can also benefit from India's capacity to produce high-quality medicines that save lives at a cost that is affordable for the average Serb population. I also told the esteemed president that we should focus on the need for co-operation between Serbia and India in the pharmaceutical sector. Tourists from India are now largely visiting foreign countries. Serbia has the potential to attract these tourists from India with its fascinating history and landscape. Serbia also has potential in some areas of the dedicated, defence industry as India now allows the private sector to participate in India and even foreign companies in the defence industry in terms of production and procurement. The private companies of both sides can now join together and exploit that liberalized policy of India. The governments of the two countries are already working to strengthen the framework for greater economic co-operation. We have contributed to these efforts today by signing the agreement. The signing of an agreement on the protection of plants and plant quarantine will contribute to the improvement of trade in fruit, vegetables and processed products. The revised air traffic agreement will improve and link and trade exchange and tourism. Sister and brothers, let me say a few words in this important place and about what my government is doing in India to attract foreign businessmen, entrepreneurs. We are committed to developing an economy worth five trillion dollars by 2025, which will make us the third largest consumer market in the world. India has risen to 42 places on the World Bank's ranking in terms of business over the past two years and has sought to make even greater progress. We want to have more investment in India, and the license process itself is easier in India. We strengthen our manufacturing sector through a program called "Make in India" or "Make India", maintaining a strong service sector based on high technologies. We also went to 21st place on the global innovation index list of the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) for two years, as well as 19 places we climbed the World Bank's Global Logistic Impact Index. Foreign direct investment as a fairly accurate indicator of the confidence of foreigners in a country's political and economic system is highly recognised. According to the latest data, the inflow of foreign direct investment in India has increased to $35.9 billion from April to December 2017. In fact, these investments rose from $36 billion in 2013 to $60 billion between 2016 and 2017. We have an intellectual property protection regime that is in line with the IPR Agreement, and our multi-party democracy provides essential stability and predictability. Systemic reforms in the field of taxation, also including taxes on goods and services, have allowed India to develop into a transparent, modern and uniform market. Tax base and compliance have been significantly improved. I can tell you from experience in my public life that such legislation has brought great transformation and one tax revolution, because no one can avoid paying taxes now and everyone will have to work in one transparent way where there is no fraud, and we know that it is often the cause of many problems. Financial inclusion is a key priority of the current government. Three hundred and eighty million new bank accounts were opened for the first time, allowing direct benefits from the transfer of cash. In this way we have established a strong political framework in India and have created a favourable business environment. The liberal electronic visa regime for Serbs should facilitate their trip to India. Sisters and brothers, in the early independence of India, our relations began on the firm basis of the common global attitude of the Movement of Unclassified and together we created a large platform for the third world at that time. Changes in the global geopolitical environment now give us the opportunity to work together with mutual benefit and to share prosperity with others. It would be good to recall Prime Minister Pandit Nehru's words at a conference held in Belgrade on 2 September 1961. His call, which is so true and relevant, even today, was as follows: “Let us build in our own countries of society in which freedom is real. Freedom is essential because freedom gives us strength and enables us to build successful societies," the end of the quote. That's what he said at the time, and today is true. It's relevant. We must strive to strengthen our democratic governments and internalise the concepts of freedom, dialogue, inclusion and rule of law in our ruling structures. Let me finish with the ancient Indian prayer from Vedo: “Let us move together. Let's get some food together. We grow up together. Together we need to gain and share knowledge and let's never hate each other." This is a message from Vedo. That's the wish I wanted to share with you. We want a world without discrimination, a world of mutual respect, tolerance, where diversity is celebrated. This is what I wanted to share with you as a representative of a country that considered the world a great family. We in India believe that the whole world, the whole universe, is one family and that's the essence of Indian philosophy. We should all go together and make sure we all look at the world as one family. I bring you love, warm greetings from India for all Serbs, and I hope we will continue working together to create a world that is inclusive, coherent and sustainable. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor! [[Applause]] Thank you, MPs! Thank you, everyone!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-15-0.u42831	I thank His Excellency for today's address. I conclude the 19th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Thank you.
