ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-07-0.u51548	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 139 MPs present, i.e. there are at least 84 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. No MP has reported his absence, and we move on to a decision on the proposals for the act referred to in paragraphs 1 to 62 of the agenda. I put the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 146 MPs. We move to a decision on the amendments, and this part will be run by Vice-President Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-07-0.u51549	I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Marjana Marash. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Ristic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above Article 2 submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by 10 MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Danica Bukvic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Joseph Broz. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Desanka Rerac. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Jovica Jeftic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Paunovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I am closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 which have been tabled by the Members of the People's Parliament. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Mr Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marija Janušević. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Krsto Janušević. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zvonimir Stevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 23 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 26 which have been tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 49 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the draft law on the central register of mandatory social security, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 144, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed the draft law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-07-0.u51550	I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's Social Security Fund for 2018, in general. Finalising vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the motion for a decision has been adopted. I'm putting the draft customs law to the vote, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 141 MEPs. I find the bill accepted, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I am putting the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to Article 10 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted the title above Article 16 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted the amendment to Article 119. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 206. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 209 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted the amendment to Article 267. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to the title above members of 280th and 280th. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. After we've completed our decision on the amendments, I'm putting the draft customs law to the vote, in general. Finalising vote: for – 141. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for customs law. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 140. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting it to a vote. Finalising vote: for – one. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting it to a vote. Finalising vote: for – one. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Five MPs from the Free Members Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Natasa Sp Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Chabrai. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 7th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 8th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Five MPs from the Free Members Group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Five MPs from the SDS Group – People's Party submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić and Jasmina Karanac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Milorad Mijatovic, Veroljub Arsic and Ivana Stojiljkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. National MP Dijana Vukomanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The 8th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. The 11th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 15th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. The 17th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. On Article 18 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. The People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. On Article 25, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. The 39th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 41st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. We have completed our decision on the amendments, and I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. I am concluding the vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, in general. Finalising vote: for – 141 MP. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2019, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2019, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the National Employment Service for 2019, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Social Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2019, in general. Finalising vote: for – 141 MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Maja Vidinovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I am concluding the vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in general. Finalising vote: for – 141 MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. I'm voting on the Customs Service Bill, in principle. I am concluding the vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 16th vote tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote. I am putting amendments to article 26 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 38 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 39 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I'm closing the vote - he didn't vote. I am putting the amendments to article 42, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 82 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting a vote on the Customs Service Bill, in general. We have several laws with a small number of amendments, please... Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a customs service law. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Property, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and SDS and the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 4 submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: yes – no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 5, which was tabled by the MP SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Property Act, in general. Finalising vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the bill of law in general has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote amendments to the draft law amending the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in general. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. Please, we have more agenda points and all have a small number of amendments, and please have patience and wait. I am putting amendments to the amendment to the Amendments to the Amendment Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games on Happiness, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 141 MEPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling in general. Finalising vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that we have passed a bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 141 MEPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by the MPs of the SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. Finalising vote: for – 142 MPs. I agree that we have passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, in principle. Final vote: 141 MP. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and the MPs of the SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic and SDS MPs, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by Ruzica Nikolic and the Social Democratic Party MP group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Sreto Peric and the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, in general. I conclude the vote – 141 MP voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in general. I'm putting the motion to vote on the return law of the seized property and the compensation, in principle. I conclude the vote – 141 MP voted for it. I realize we've passed the law, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. The first amendment was submitted by Verica Radet, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Independent MPs' Club. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 2 tabled by Natasa Jovanovic, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Independent MPs' Club. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by Ruzica Nikolic, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 that Olena Papug has submitted. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 4 tabled by Sreto Peric, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Independent MPs' Club. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 5 submitted by Alexander Seselj, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted yes. I am putting the motion to vote on the amendment of the Law on the return of seized property and compensation, in general. I am concluding the vote - 140 MPs voted for it. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill, in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-07-0.u51551	I put the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, it did not vote – five, of 145. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm opening a vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the 5th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment with correction was filed by the Verica Radeta. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milorad Mircic and the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party MPs. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 33. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 33rd Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 37. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 49. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Alexander Seselj submitted to the 57th Amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 58. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 59th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 63. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 65th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 66. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 68th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 71. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 72. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 73. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 74th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted the amendment to Article 76. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party submitted to the 77th amendment. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: six out of 145 MPs did not vote for – 139. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass the laws of the agenda as soon as possible, this session. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax on Civilian Income. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. I conclude the vote, for a vote of 139, six out of 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. I conclude the vote: 139 out of 145 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. We move to the 15th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in principle. I conclude the vote: 139 MPs voted in favour of 145. I find that the National Assembly adopted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 1st Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: four MPs voted in favour, of 145 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: four MPs voted in favour, of 145 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, they submitted Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the SDS, the NS, submitted an amendment to Article 3. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the SDS, NS, submitted to the 4th Amendment. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were submitted by SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted an amendment to Article 7. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were submitted by SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the SDS, NS, submitted to the 9th Amendment. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The SDS MPs, the NS, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were submitted by SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were submitted by SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the SDS, the NS, submitted an amendment to Article 15. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were submitted by SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic and SDS MPs, the NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The SDS MPs, the NS, submitted an amendment to Article 18. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the SDS, NS, submitted the amendment to Article 19. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The SDS MPs, the NS, submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The SDS MPs, the NS, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the SDS, the NS, submitted an amendment to Article 22. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 MPs, of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Moving to point 16. – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 140 MPs, of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Verica Radet and the five SDS MPs, the NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, they are identical to the text, submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and SDS MPs, NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic and SDS MPs, the NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Sreto Peric and SDS MPs, the NS. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Alexander Seselj and SDS and the People's Party MPs. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić and the MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 9th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Miljan Damjanovic and SDS and the People's Party MPs. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Petar Jojic and Aleksandra Belacic and SDS and the People's Party MPs. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Alexander Seselj and SDS and the People's Party MPs. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 125th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Nikola Savic and SDS and the People's Party MPs. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the SDS and the People's Party submitted to the 13th amendment. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 14th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Miljan Damjanovic and SDS and the People's Party MPs. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Petar Jojic and SDS and the People's Party MPs. No one voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I remind you he's a member of 16. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for - 137 MPs, of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 MPs, of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-07-0.u51552	I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill in principle. I put the amendments to the 1st parliamentary group member Social Democratic Party, People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put George Komlensky's amendment to Article 1 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 1. I conclude the vote: four MPs voted in favour and was not accepted. I put George Komlensky's amendment to article 4. I conclude the vote: three MPs voted in favour. I would like to vote on the amendments of Natasha Jovanovic to Article 4. I conclude the vote: four MPs voted in favour. I am putting the amendment of Ruzica Nikolic on Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, People's Party on Article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to the 12th Social Democratic Party Group of the 12th parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 18th MP, Sreta Periæ. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 21. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 22 to the vote Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 30 to vote. Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 33 to vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 34 to vote. Milljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 35 to vote. Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in general. I conclude the vote: 137 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in general. I put the draft law on public goods benefits, in principle. I conclude the vote: 138 for the vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 12 to the vote. Natasha Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 57 to vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of the News Tonchev amendment to Article 98. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 246. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 247. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the 267th Amendment Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendment to 279. Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Annex 6 to the vote. Alexander Tomic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 6th parliamentary group Social Democratic Party of Serbia to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the draft law on public goods benefits in general. I conclude the vote: 138 MPs voted in favour. I find that the Assembly has passed a bill on compensation for the use of public goods. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (TPS project) Zemun – Fata 2) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: 138 MPs voted in favour. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty on State Concession Loan for a bypass project around Belgrade on the E70/E75 highway, a section: bridge across the Sava River near Ostružnica – Bubanj Potok (Sections 4, 5 and 6) between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a lender and Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender, in general. I conclude the vote: 136 MPs voted in favour. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the security of the Republic of Serbia's concession loan to the People's Republic of China, in general. Zarko Obradovic, please join the vote. Is it hot? The president of the Friendship Group with China, he has to. I conclude the vote: 138 MPs voted in favour. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the users of public funds, in principle. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Aleksandra Tomic. Finalising vote: in – two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the users of public funds, in general. Finalising vote: for - 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intes a.d. Belgrade, for the reconciliation of the obligations of the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" Novi Sad under the Treaty of Credit for the Construction of the Gas pipeline Alexandrovac - Brus - Kopalnik - Raška - Novi Pazar - Tutin (II stage), in principle. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put the amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intes a.d. Belgrade, for the reconciliation of the obligations of the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" Novi Sad under the Treaty of Credit for the Construction of the Water Gas pipeline Alexandrovac - Brus - Kopalnik - Raška - Novi Pazar - Tutin (II stage), in general. Finalising vote: for - 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this bill with the majority of votes. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Social General Bank of Serbia, the Commercial Bank of Belgrade, the Bank of Postage Savings Bank of Belgrade, the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. Novi Sad and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, on the basis of a loan agreement for the construction of a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Finalising vote: for - 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Social General Bank of Serbia, the Commercial Bank of Belgrade, the Bank of Post office of Belgrade, the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. Novi Sad and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, on the basis of a loan agreement for the construction of a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia, which the government has submitted. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I realize we've passed the bill, in general. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex No. 1 of the Financial Treaty of the Niš railway line - Dimitrovgrad from 31 January 2018, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that most of the votes have passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to the vote, in the same text, on Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. Finalising vote: in – two. I put the amendments to vote, in the same text, on Article 2 submitted by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to vote, in the same text, on Article 3 submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to the vote, in the same text, on Article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to the vote, in the same text, on Article 5, which was tabled by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to the vote, in the same text, on Article 6 submitted by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to the vote, in the same text, on Article 7 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act as a whole. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have adopted a bill amending and supplementing the Business Society Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on bankruptcy, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on bankruptcy, in general. Finalising vote: for - 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Ireland. I put the draft law on changes and additions to the Investment Act, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1, in the same text, submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and the SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 2, in the same text, tabled by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 3, in the same text, submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 4, in the same text, submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the same text, which were tabled by the MPs Alexander Seselj and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 6, in the same text, submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 7, in the same text, tabled by the MPs Aleksandra Belačić and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put amendments to Article 8, in the same text, submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put amendments to Article 9, in the same text, submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put amendments to Article 10 to the same text, submitted by the MPs Bozidar Delic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 11, in the same text, tabled by MPs Zoran Despotovic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 12 in the same text, submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put amendments to Article 13, in the same text, submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 14, in the same text, tabled by the MPs Momcilo Mandic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 15, in the same text, tabled by the MPs Milorad Mircic and the SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put amendments to Article 16, in the same text, submitted by MPs Ljiljana Mihajlović and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 17 to the same text, which were tabled by MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 18 in the same text, submitted by the MPs Marina Ristic and the SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 19 to the same text, tabled by MPs Filip Stojanovic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 20, in the same text, tabled by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 21 to the same text, submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and the SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 22 to the same text, which were tabled by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put the draft law on changes and additions to the Investment Act, in general. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Investment Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in general. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Time Act of the crew of the vehicle in road transport and tachographs, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting amendments to article 19, which were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Finalising vote: for – 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Working Time Act of the crew of the vehicle in road transport and tachographs, in general. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Working Time Act of the crew of vehicles in road transport and tachographs. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Community Labour Act, in principle. Finalising vote: for - 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the SDS, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Natasha Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Community Labour Act, in general. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that we have passed a bill supplementing the Community Labour Act. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure of enrollment in the catalogue of immovableity and water, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 137. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 1 submitted by Verica Radet, the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Natasha Jovanovic and the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2, with an amendment, which was submitted by Ambassador George Komlenski. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that we have accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Ruzice Nikolic and the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. George Komlensky. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Srete Perić, Social Democratic parties - People's parties. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. George Komlensky. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Alexander Seselj, Social Democratic Party - People's Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Nikola Savic as a member of the 6th parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party – People's Party and Gjorge Komlenski. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Milorad Mircic, Social Democratic Party - People's parties. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8. Aleksandre Belačić, Social Democratic parties – People's parties. I'm closing the vote. I am now putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the registration procedure of the Immobilities and Waters Catalogue, as a whole. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the Assembly has passed this bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the Republic of Serbia Science Fund, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. I close the vote – no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Free MPs. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 10 to vote. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 12 to the vote. Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 14. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 14. Free MPs. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 15 to the vote. Milljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Free MPs. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Free MPs. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Petra Jojic I conclude the vote – no one voted. I put the Verice Radete amendment to article 28 to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law on the Fund for the Science of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have adopted a bill on the Republic of Serbia's Science Fund. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 4. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 6. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 8. Finalising vote: for – one. I'm putting the amendments to article 61 to vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am voting on the amendments to Sreta Periæ's article 62. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that we have adopted the bill on amendments and amendments to the patent law. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the provisional regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verice Radete and the group of Independent Members' Clubs on Article 1. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am voting on Article 2 of the amendment tabled by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic and the Independent MPs' Club. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments of the Social Democratic Party - People's Parties to Article 2 to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. It's an independent committee club. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the provisional regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services, in general. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I realize we've passed the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Free MPs. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Natasha Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 6 to the vote. Meet Peric and Free MPs. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Free MPs. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 11. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 28 to vote. Social Democratic parties - People's parties. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 31 to vote. Social Democratic parties - People's parties. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 32 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 35 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 36 to vote. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 37 to vote. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 54 to vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 79 to vote. Natasha Jovanovic. No one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 votes. I realize we've passed the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. The faithful of Radeta and the Social Democratic Party. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Ruzice Nikolic and the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Meet Peric and the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, in general. I conclude the vote: 134 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, in principle. I conclude the vote: 136 MPs voted in favour. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Social Democratic parties, People's Parties. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. The faithful of Radeta and the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and the Social Democratic Party. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 6 to the vote. Social Democratic parties, People's Parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8. Social Democratic parties, People's Parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 9. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 10 to vote. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 11. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 12 to the vote. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 13. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 14. Social Democratic parties. I put the amendments to Article 15 to the vote. Social Democratic parties. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Social Democratic parties. No one's voting. I put the amendments to Article 17. Social Democratic parties. No one's voting. I put the amendments to Article 18 to the vote Social Democratic parties. No one's voting. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Social Democratic parties. No one's voting. I put the amendments to Article 20 to vote. Social Democratic parties. No one's voting. I put the amendments to Article 21. Social Democratic parties. No one's voting. I put the amendments to Article 22 to the vote Social Democratic parties. I am putting the amendments to Article 23 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I am putting the amendments to Article 24 to vote. Meet Peric and the Social Democratic Party. I am putting the amendments to Article 25 to vote. Social Democratic parties. So no one's accessing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 26. Social Democratic parties. I am putting the amendments to Article 27 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I am putting the amendments to Article 28 to vote. Ruzice Nikolic and the Social Democratic Party. I put the amendments to Article 29 to the vote. Social Democratic parties. I put the amendments to Article 30 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I put the amendments to Article 31 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I put the amendments to Article 32 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 33 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I put the amendments to Article 34 to vote. Social Democratic parties. No one's been accessing the vote this whole time. I'm putting the amendments to Article 35 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 36 to vote. Alexander Seselj and the Social Democratic Party. I put the amendments to Article 37 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 38 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 39 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 40 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 41 to vote. Social Democratic parties. Nobody. I'm putting the amendments to Article 42 to vote. Social Democratic parties. Nobody. I'm putting the amendments to Article 43 to vote. Social Democratic parties. Nobody. I put the amendments to Article 44 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 45 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 46 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 47 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 48 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 49 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to Article 50 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to article 51 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I put the amendments to Article 52 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to article 53 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I'm putting the amendments to article 54 to vote. Social Democratic parties. I put the amendments to Article 55 to vote. Social Democratic parties. All this time, no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, in general. I conclude the vote: 133 MPs voted in favour. I realize we've passed the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and units of local self-government, in principle. I conclude the vote: 132 MPs voted in favour. We passed the bill in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. The faithful of Radeta and the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Ruzice Nikolic and the Social Democratic Party. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and the Social Democratic Party. He voted for one. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Social Democratic parties. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted for it. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government, in general. I conclude the vote: 136 MPs voted in favour. I find that the Assembly has passed this law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that we have adopted the bill in principle. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, have been tabled by Parliamentarian Verica Radet and MPs of the SDS Group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: yes – no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees in general. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that we have adopted the bill in principle. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Service Employees, in principle. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that we have adopted the bill in principle. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, have been tabled by Parliamentarian Verica Radet and MPs of the SDS Group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Sreto Peric and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Public Service Employees, in general. Finalising vote: for – 131 MPs. I realize we've passed the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the public sector wage system. Finalising vote: for – 142 MPs. I realize we've adopted this bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, have been tabled by Parliamentarian Verica Radet and MPs of the SDS Group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Sreto Peric and MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I realize we've adopted this bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Inspective Control Act, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 141 MEPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to vote. who was submitted by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Finalizing vote: for -one. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which, with correction, was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Finalizing vote: for -one. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the inspection law in general. Final vote: 141 MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, in principle. Final vote: 141 MP. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-07-0.u51553	I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by Parliamentarian Rose never. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 7 which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 10th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 11th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 14, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – no one, with abstentions, has, of the 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Water Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put the draft law on radiation and nuclear safety and security in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – there is no one, with abstentions, out of the 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 7 which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 9 which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 10, which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 11 which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which, in the same text, have tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 13 which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 14 which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 15, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 16 which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 17, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 18, which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 18 which have been tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 19, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 19, which was tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 20, which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 20, which have been tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 21 which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 22, which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 24, which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 25, which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 26, which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 27, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 28 which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 29, which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 30, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 31, which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 32, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 33, which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 34, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the 35th article, which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 36, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 37, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 38, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 39, which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which, in the same text, submitted five MPs to the SDS, NS and five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 41, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 42, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 43, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 44, which were tabled in the same text by MPs of the SDS, NS and MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the same article in the same text as the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 46, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the same article 47, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 48, which were tabled in the same text by MPs of the SDS, NS and MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the article 49, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 50, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the same text as those submitted by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the same text as those submitted by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the article 53, which was tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 54, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the same article in the same text as the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 56, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the 57th Amendments tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 58, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 59, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 60, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 61, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 62, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 63, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 64, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the same article 65, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 66, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 67, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 68, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 69, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 70, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 71, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 72, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 73, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 74, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 75, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 76, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 77, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 78, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 79, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 80, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 81, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 82, which were tabled in the same text by MPs of the SDS, NS and MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 83, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 84, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 85, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 86, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 87, which were tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS, the NS and the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 88th Amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 89, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 90th Amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 91st People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table of Article 92 which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 93rd vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the same article 94, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 95th Amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 96th Amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 97th vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 98th vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 99th vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 100th Amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 101st article, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 102 which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table of Article 103 which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 104, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table of Article 105 which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 106th Amendments, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 107, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 108th vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table of Article 109 which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 110th vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 111 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 112, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, People's Party and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table of Article 113 which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 114, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 115 amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 116, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 117, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table of Article 118 which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 119s, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 120th vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 121, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, People's Party and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 122, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 123, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 124, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 125 amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 126, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 127, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 128 amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 129th vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 130th vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 131s, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 132 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 133, which were submitted to the same text by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 134 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 135, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 136, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 137, which were submitted to the same text by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 138, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 139, which were submitted to the same text by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 140, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 141 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 142, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 143 which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 144, which were submitted to the same text by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 145, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 146, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 147, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 148, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 149, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 150, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 151 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 152, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 153 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 154 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 155 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 156, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 157, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 158 which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 159, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 160, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 161 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 162 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 163 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 164 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 165, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 166 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 167, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 168, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 169, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 170, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 171 which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote of amendments to Article 172, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 173 submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Club of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote by the amendments to Article 174, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Put to the vote for amendments to Article 175, which were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 176 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 177 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 178, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 179, which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 180th vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 181 vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 182 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments on the table of Article 183, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 184 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 185th vote, which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 186 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 187 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the section 188, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 189 amendments tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 190, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the SDS Group and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 191 vote, which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 192 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 193 vote, which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 194 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table of Article 195 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 196 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 197 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 198 vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 199 vote, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 200th article, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 201, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 202 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 203, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 204 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 205 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 206 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 207 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 208 amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by MPs of the SDS Group and MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 209 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 210, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 211 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 212, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 213, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 214 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 215, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 216 which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 217, which, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 218, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 219, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the SDS Group and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 220 amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 221 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 222 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 223 which, in the same text, have been submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 224 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 225 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 226 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 227 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 228 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 229 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 230s which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 231 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 232 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 233 which, in the same text, have been submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 234 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 235 which, in the same text, have been submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 236 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 237 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 238, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 239 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 240 amendments, which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 241 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 242 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 243 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 244 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 245 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 246 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 247 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table on Article 248 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote on Article 249 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs' groups of SDS and MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 250th vote, which, in the same text, have been submitted by the MPs' groups of SDS and the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-07-0.u51554	Please sit down, we have a vote now. Almost there. When we last this long, we're almost there. I promise. I am voting to establish a proposal for particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force within eight days. I put the draft law on radiation and nuclear safety and security in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the Rudarsko-topic base RTB Bor d.o.o. Bor, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary groups. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary groups. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusan Borkovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Srete Perića, Sande Raskovic Ivic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Aleksandra Seselja, Sande Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 6 to the vote. Sande Raskovic Ivić, Nikola Savic, Djorđa Vukadinovic and the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Aleksandre Belačić, Sande Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic I conclude the vote – no one voted Putting amendments to Article 7. Dusan Borkovic. Finalising the vote – no one voted I put the amendments to Article 8. Dubravka Bojica and together Sande Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 9. Miljana Damjanović and Sande Raskovic Ivić. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 10 to vote. Bozidar Delic, Sande Raskovic Ivić. Finalising the vote – no one voted I put the amendments to Article 11. Zoran Despotovica, Sande Raskovic Ivić and the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 12 to the vote. Petra Jojic, Sande Raskovic Ivić and the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 12 to the vote. Gjorga Vukadinović. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 13. Tomislav LJubenović, Sande Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 14. Momčela Mandića, Sande Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 12 to the vote. Milorad Mircic, Sande Raskovic Ivić, Djorđa Vukadinovic and the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Ljiljana Mihajlovic, Sande Raskovic Ivic, Djurdja Vukadinovic, the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 17. Vesne Nikolic Vukajlović, Sande Raskovic Ivić and Djorđa Vukadinovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 18 to the vote Marine Ristic, Sande Raskovic Ivic, Ljiljana Vukomanovic, Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Filip Stojanovic, Sande Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 20 to vote. Nemanje Sarovic, Sande Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of the day of publication. I put to the vote the draft law on the acquisition of property rights on land, facilities and lines of RTB "Bor" d.o.o. in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the Assembly has passed the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documents in order to implement the construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream", in principle. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote, which was tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 10th vote, which was tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 11th vote, which was tabled by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 12th parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the motion to vote in order to determine the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 11. It's a bill of law. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 11. It's a bill of law. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documents in order to implement the construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream", in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. We move to points 49 to 62 of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Parties to the South East European Police Cooperation Convention and the Automatic Exchange of DNA data, dactyloscopic data and data on registered vehicles, with the Agreement on the Implementation of the Agreement between the Parties to the Southeastern European Police Cooperation Convention on the Automatic Exchange of DNA data, dactyloscopic data and registered vehicle data, in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on co-operation in the fields of culture, art, youth, sport and media, in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 37, paragraph 1-3, point 4 and Article 147. The Act of Labour (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’) No. 24/05, 61/05, 54/09, 32/13, 75/14, 13/17 – US and 113/17), in general. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 22 of the General Administrative Procedure Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 18/16), in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. I put the motion for a decision to give consent to the Civil Protection Act, in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, in general. Finalising vote: for – 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Point 55. - Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected at the Judge's office on a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, the Assembly shall decide individually, and the proposal for the selection of candidates who are not contested shall be decided in whole, by public vote. In line with these provisions, I would like to put on the vote a proposal to elect Nenad Lazarevic, judge at the Loznica Court of Justice, whose proposal was challenged by Parliament of the People, Stanislava Janosevic. Yeah, I put it to a vote, I read that. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I find that the candidate Nenad Lazarevic has not been elected as the judge of the main court in Loznica. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, without a disputed candidate, in general. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, in general. Finalising vote: for - 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Point 57. – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor on a proposal for the selection of each of the disputed candidates, the Assembly shall decide individually, and a proposal for the selection of candidates who are not contested shall be decided in general by public vote. In line with these provisions, I would like to put on the vote a proposal to elect Eva Ognjanovic, the beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, whose proposal was challenged by MP Stanislav Janosevic, to deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec. I conclude the vote: yes – no one has joined the vote. I find that Eva Ognjanovic was not elected as deputy public prosecutor at the Krusevac Public Prosecutor's Office. I am voting on the proposal to elect Muhedin Dedeic, judge assistant at the New Pazar General Court, whose proposal has been challenged by the MP Verica Radeta, as deputy public prosecutor at the Main Court in Novi Pazar. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that the assembly has chosen Muhedin Dedeic as deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar most of the votes. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, with a correction, from 26 November 2018, without disputed candidates, in general. Finalising vote: for - 137 MPs. I find that most of the votes have adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my own behalf, the chosen holders of judicial functions and wish them successful work. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of the member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I realize we've adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body for 2018, in general. Final vote: 132 MPs. I realize we've adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body for 2019, in general. Finalising vote: for - 137 MPs. I realize we've adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to changes in individual expenditure without changing the total expenditure of the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, for 2018, in general. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I realize we've adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, for 2019, in general. Finalising vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Now, I'm only asking for five more minutes of work, so we can close the session, breach of the Rules of Procedure. We'll be right there, please. National MP Bosko Obradović, at a session on 30 November 2018, at 11 o'clock and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Bosko Obradović, at a session on 30 November 2018, at 11 o'clock and 32 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 30 November 2018, at 11 o'clock and 58 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 101 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarović, at a session on 3 December 2018, at 10 o'clock and 35 minutes, pointed to an injury. Articles 107, 27 and 103(2) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Bosko Obradović, at a session on 3 December 2018, at 12.00 hours, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, at a session on 3 December 2018, at 12 hours 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Maja Vidinović, at a session on 4 December 2018, at 12 hours 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 4 December 2018, at 12 hours 34 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 4 December 2018, at 13 o'clock in 11 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 4 December 2018, at 13 hours 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sanda Rasković Ivić, at a session on 4 December 2018, at 1600 hours, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Bosko Obradovic, at a session on December 4, 2018, at 19 hours and nine minutes, pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not citing a member to whom the injury relates. I don't think there's a vote here, but as I can see, you haven't joined the vote either. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. I congratulate all citizens of Serbia on the 2019 budget. Thank you.
