ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if there's anything serious we need to do in life, we have to plan well first. Planning in agricultural production is very important. So, the common European agricultural policy mainly consists of carefully and carefully planning each turn in this agricultural policy seven years in advance. So every seven years they mildly correct their agricultural policy. Our agricultural policy must be based on an increase in GDP, which is about five billion euros in our country, provided that the year is born. We need to base the increase on livestock, fruit and vegetables. But also, in order to increase agricultural production, we need to develop a processing industry in order to achieve it, extract money for incentives in agricultural production not only for farmers, but for consumers and, above all, for processors to have a component price, or to be competitive on the market, to provide raw materials at a cheap price because agricultural production is subsidized. Croatia subsidises its agricultural production compared to GDP with over 30% and has almost no result because their plans are weak. Our subsidies, thanks to a large number of hectares at 3.2 million hectares, are somewhere around 6% of the value of GDP. In order to increase this, we need to develop a processing industry, parallel to it, the money that is being realised, thus finding a job for a father in the field, a son in processing, a daughter-in-law in processing, but thus providing an incentive for the agricultural production of primary, plant, livestock, fruit growing and thus becoming competitive on our and their market.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33249	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33250	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, in Article 3. The draft law defines principles with detailed reasons to facilitate the interpretation of the law, and hence its application. I have submitted the amendment because I believe it is mandatory to define the principle of efficiency, which means ensuring a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving the work of local self-government. For 12 years, in Vojvodina 16, the previous regime has informed us of a number of strategies, how they plan and bring in brilliant planning documents that will lead us to order highly developed countries, how everything they plan to do because of and only in the interests of their citizens. In Novi Knezevic, they presented to us planned documents a municipality without the unemployed in which they would preserve jobs and business entities, to which investors will come, tourism will develop, in one word it will be a paradise on earth. None of their plans were realized, their plans were, at the very least, simple lies. It was a wish list highlighted only in order to at least win another mandate, so that they could continue to destroy, rob and get rich in person. During this unfortunate time, every other worker remained in Novi Knezevic across Serbia without a job, while according to the robbery privatisation system, the economic operators were first sold for bankruptcy, and then after the prepared scenario, sucking up capital in bankruptcy, or failure. We will never again from the SNS, and we must never let such an ugly past come back to us, but we will never forget it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33251	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33252	I will talk about the problem of refugee displaced persons in the integration process in Serbia. According to the May 2010 Refugees Act, all refugee families who received assistance from international organisations and the Serbian government are expected to buy these housing units under favourable conditions. The Refugees Act clearly states that the market price will be defined, i.e. where these housing units are built and that 50% will be discounted in relation to that price. It has been eight years since the law was passed, most of the refugee families who have resolved their housing issues have not yet been given the opportunity, have not yet purchased those housing units. Thousands of refugee families live in suspense. I appeal and ask the Commissioner for Refugees as competent state institutions to finally resolve the issue, to speed up the preparation of the ransom contract, that the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia finally know that they live in their own, not continue to live in a way that is not worthy of man in the 21st century. Also, we still have tens of thousands of refugee families who are still tens of thousands of tens of them. Many of them gave up 40, 50,000 in the previous period by paying the rent. A regional standard programme is currently being implemented in four countries, Croatia, BiH, Serbia-Montenegro. Unfortunately, I have to realize that the regional standard programme in Serbia is being implemented very slowly, that people are unhappy, that we have problems with the realisation itself, that we have examples of bad works, for example about building house installations, that we have examples of bad housing. (President: Bringing the end. ) I would also like to appeal to the Commissioner for Refugees as a state institution to make a maximum commitment to this problem, not to let these failures happen, that this process takes place quickly and qualitatively..
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33253	Thank you, colleague Linta. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Tarbuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33254	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Minister Djordjevic and his associates, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to propose an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia and to add point 15, which is the principle of efficiency that implies ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the efficiency of local self-government. The aim of this law is to establish an efficient, transparently coordinated and realistic planning system that covers all key aspects of social, economic policy development and regional and spatial development, with optimal use of the Republic of Serbia's budgets, while respecting the principles of efficiency and reality. This law would create a system of responsibility for the result in the public administration which is necessary for the administration to be set up in an efficient and rational manner. It is the public administration reform that is the most important momentum for Serbia's overall development, the driver of European integration. It is a service of citizens who must be composed of professionals and professional staff. With a precise system of planning and accountability, with constant respect for the way in which it works, we will establish a system that will give citizens more and cost the country less. The legislative proposal allows the planned budget of the Republic of Serbia in the best service of all citizens and businesses, along with the professionalisation of the public administration, to make the best results, which is why it is important to implement this bill, the state administration and local self-government reform, and my fellow MPs in the voting day, to support this law and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33255	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Zeleg, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33256	Thank you. The reason for proposing my amendment is for the plan system law to reflect the principle of efficiency that ensures the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to state administration. With the joint operation of several levels of government through the SNS plan system law, it wants to speed up decisions important for the realisation of projects of interest for Serbian citizens, as well as for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Activities and measures shall be more difficult to implement if there is an inefficient or divided competence of several bodies for their implementation. In the case of the City of Belgrade, as the largest local self-government, projects are important for its functioning, both original and trusted jobs whose overlaps make it possible to implement them more efficiently. After taking over authorities in Belgrade from those who have ruined the city's budget and the city's public enterprises brought into dubiosis in 2014, SNS takes responsibility for managing the city, consolidates the budget, introduces order into public enterprises and crossings, first in preparation and then realises projects that the citizens have been waiting for years. During the period of the SNS mandate, the square "Slavija", the street of Duke Stepe, Autocommand, Bulevar Liberation, Obilić's Venac, Kosančić's Venac, started the project "Belgrade on Water", reconstructed the "Brank Bridge" after 40 years, built Pupin's Bridge and started the project "Belgrade 20125" which represents a plan to cover Belgrade's entire territory with a sewage network by 2025. These and a number of other projects assured Belgrade citizens that the government led by the SNS is working in their best interest, as the citizens said in the March 4th elections. It is important to support the proposed law and proposed amendments for more efficient project implementation for the City of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33257	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33258	Thank you. By passing the law on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia, we want to achieve certain objectives, because the main goal is to regulate the functioning of the public policy management system, in fact to create a predictable legal environment that ensures a reduction of uncertainty for the successful business of economic operators. Therefore, public policies and regulations must be well-designed, formulated to have in practice, and not only on paper, well-established, efficient, transparent, coordinated realistic planning system with optimal use of budget funds and ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia, including effective implementation of the EU accession process. We in the SNS want the adoption of the law on the plan system to create conditions to fully regulate the planning system at the level of the Republic of Serbia, taking into account the efficiency of the plan system. What does that really mean? This means that one of the most significant objectives that we want to achieve through this law and the regulation of the planning system is to make sure that the benefits of public policies justify the costs they cause and that potential negative effects are reduced to the least possible extent. After all, it is in line with the already recognizable host relationship towards the state established by Aleksandar Vucic, which we from SNS follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33259	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Cokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33260	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, fellow MPs, the principle of efficiency is of great importance for the Republic of Serbia, for units of local self-government, and is of particular importance for the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, where elections have now been held where SNS won the two-thirds majority, thus creating a number of preconditions for solving a number of problems dating from the past. What I'm trying to say and to draw attention to is that Smederevska Palanka is only 80km from Belgrade. It is not so close to the highway or Corridor 10, nor to Corridor 11 and thus is not as attractive to investors as these municipalities are along the highway. In order to attract investors, which is one of the most important issues and what President Vukic is doing the most, and some of the circumstances now go to our advantage, should be restored at least regional roads in the Smederjevska Palanka municipality so that they are at the level of the regional roads on the territory of the municipality of Topol which the government has built, and above all not only spoke, but without a proposal, I suggest that it be rehabilitated quickly, leading to the highest level of regional road, the road from the Great Plan – Smederjevska Palanca to Mali Pozarec, via Mladenvec, or Smederjevska Palanka, where there is room for investors to be brought in after the resolution of normal property-law issues and to employ the population because this is what is most necessary at this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33261	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Markovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33262	Thank you. Dear Mr Arsic, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment aims to highlight the need for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development. He is completely complemented by the goals the law needs to achieve in terms of the system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province and the units of local self-government. Also, in explaining previous amendments, he cited some positive examples of some local self-government, for example, the township of Vrac, and regarding the planning of the budget for the current year, as we said, respecting the interests of other participants in the planning system, but also respecting the interests and initiatives and needs and priorities of local self-government and citizens. I was talking about the benefits that came from such budget planning, I was talking about the direct participation of citizens in budget planning. I also stated that we are in co-operation with the City of Belgrade on the verge of permanently solving an acute problem with lack of place in kindergartens. By making Vračar Municipality part of its 700 - square - square building. In this way we will get a new kindergarten on Vrakar with about 300 seats for children and we will solve the problem with the waiting list. I can't help but recall how others approached the problem, let's say, Gilas when he was mayor when he was making harmful contracts, you remember that brilliant move when a contract was signed for a kindergarten in Athens that required the city to pay 24,000 euros a month and a day today. That's the difference between DS and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33263	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Radičević's, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33264	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on the Serbian plan system where I propose to add point 15 – the principle of efficiency that involves ensuring overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on industrialisation. Article 3 provides for the principle of governance of public policy systems both at national level and at local level. How important it is to have a good plan I'll show you on the case of the local self-government I come from. The public water and sewerage company from Aleksinc was a loser by 2012, profits were both minimal and irregular. The change in management, good planning and home business has made the company profitable. The water supply provided only three settlements in the municipality of Alexinac, and today it supplies 21 villages with healthy drinking water, and in two other settlements a secondary water network is being built and in the course of the year it will be connected to the water network. With the credit support of KfW Bank, a million and a half euros has been invested in exchange for the asbestos network, and 2.9m euros is the value of the investment that started this year, which is a detailed reconstruction of the water processing plant, ensuring that Alexinac has clean and healthy drinking water in the future. It should be noted that the company "Vovod" has been self-serving credit rates for three years, and as a reward for this, KfW bank has received a 190,000-euro "canal jet" vehicle and a chlorine station. The chlorine station is mounted on the Bovan dam, and the "canal jet" vehicle is operational from two years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33265	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33266	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about economic development. We are talking about economic development because we have conditions to talk about economic development. Today we have achieved economic growth. In the first quarter of 2018 we have a growth of 3.9% gross domestic product, and the indicator of economic growth is precisely gross domestic product. Today we are investing equally in all regions of the Republic of Serbia. So we have a balanced regional development. Today we invest and open factories in both Kruševec and Nis and Vladic's Han and Vladic's Vlasotanc and Leban and Leskovec and Valjevo, Arangelovac, Subotica, so in all cities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We have before us today the Law on the Planning System. The plan system law will give us even better opportunities to achieve even better results in the coming period, because it implies that all participants, and units of local self-government and autonomous provinces and businessmen and groups of citizens analyse the effects of these planning documents on the economy and citizens before we adopt any planning document. This means that we will have a legal framework to achieve even better results in the next period. When it comes to the municipality of Kursumli, the municipality where I come from, we have another proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working on even regional development. We have a problem with the Kurzumli spa dating back to 2006. We have a bullet bath closed, but the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the problem and the question is, the day will begin the reconstruction of the hotel in Kursumlijska Banja. If we're running by 2006 if we've had 10,000 guests, that means not only will we hire 150 workers, someone would say it's small, it's not small, we'll have a visit to the Kursumlij Bani over 10,000 tourists. That means he'll... (President: You are bringing the end of your colleague, Charapic. I have time as authorized. If we are led by having over 10,000 tourists, this means that the opening of hotels and spas in Kursumlij Bani will launch all economic activity on the territory of the municipality of Kursumli. The hosts will be able to open catering facilities, local residents will be able to provide accommodation services, farmers will have someone to sell their products to. So, the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to build and raise the economy on a healthy basis, and that is what we do. So we have even regional development. I want to take the opportunity to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry for recognising the problem of the Kursumli Banje, because it means a lot to the municipality of Kursumli. Not only will it prevent the eviction of the population that has been present for the last 15-20 years, but it will help bring back the people who have gone back to us and have living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33267	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kostic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33268	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers, dear colleagues, the explanation of my amendment to Article 3. I would like to begin the plan system law with a sentence opened by the prime minister in March of this year by the Belgrade Tourism Fair. I quote, "Every dinar invested in tourism gives us back one euro." This is one of the most profitable and successful industries, and that is why it is investing more and more. In 2017, more than 1.5 million foreign tourists visited Serbia, which is 17% more than in 2016. In local self-governments in the Banjian areas, investors interested in investing in hotel construction can count on incentives from the Ministry of Economy, as the Serbian government adopted a regulation supporting the Ministry of Economy. Investments that the state would support should contribute to the development of already existing spas, but also to establishing new Bane areas, as there are a large number of unused sources of thermal and mineral water with medicinal properties in Serbia. Investors can count on incentives of 50-70% of eligible costs, depending on the size of the company, whose minimum value is 2m euros. A reflection of the developed economy is the developed service sector, i.e. the tertiary sector, and today we are investing equally in all sectors, in agriculture, in industry, as well as in tourism and in the IT sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33269	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33270	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, in order for the planning system to be as efficient as possible and able to operate at all levels of the Republic of Serbia's state, then the planning system must be clearly defined and the planning process procedures must be clear and transparent to all those involved in the process. In Article 3. The law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia has proposed an amendment and this member, in fact, concerns the principles that should define the management of public policy systems. I propose point 15, the principle of efficiency. In order for the planning system to be efficient, it must have its perception contained. The perception of future events is actually predicting where we want to go, not just where we want to go, but also predicting the current environment we need to get to. When we talk today about public policies in the area of economy, then the perception of these developments is very difficult. If you look at global economic movements, if you look at all the problems facing the world today in the area of the economy, then you can understand how difficult it is to predict what currency ratios will be in the next period of time. The ratio of currency is important for the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. Today you have fully open customs wars, you have fully open fiscal policies that change from day to day, and all of this should be a plan base, a basis for public policies in the area of the economy. That is why planning is and that is why this amendment on efficiency is crucial for the even better functioning of the planned Republic of Serbia's system. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33271	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33272	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law to which I add point 10) aims at reducing social differences. It should be said that in the past three years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a real effort to make the Republic of Serbia a good place to invest. Even the World Bank that deals with the comparison of economies found that in 2012, we were in the 186th place of the Duing Business List, and today we are in 43rd place, which means we are an extremely good place to invest. What is very important and should be pointed out is that there should be a very good interaction between units of local self-government, the city and the Republic, because there are mostly problems at the local. Speaking of the place, I come from a large municipality of Voždovac and I must point out that after ten years of negotiations, the agreement is only Mr. Vukic, today's President of the Republic, and then the prime minister, managed to bring the large company Ikea to Belgrade, more specifically to Vozdovac. The arrival of this company, Belgrade, as well as Vozdovac, won a fantastic 10m-euro infrastructure. Also, more than two kilometers of traffic, three circular flows, almost two kilometers of new public lighting, a brand-new riverbed, a wastewater treatment plant, more than five thousand metres of water and sewerage network, and most importantly, 400 people were employed. Also, by running a responsible government plan policy, of course headed by the SNS, a new industrial zone will be opened at the Bubanj stream. The Vozdovac municipality launched an initiative to form a large business industrial zone at 40 hectares along the Belgrade-Nish highway and future tours of the Bubanj stream. The business complex is a logical continuation of the economic zone that was formed at Ikea by opening production plants, warehouses, cargocenters, warehouse spaces will create conditions to create new jobs. This is how responsible authority works. This is a socially responsible policy that leads to poverty reduction and a reduction of social differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33273	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33274	I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33275	Just a moment, my colleague, I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure, People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33276	I'm advertising Article 106. A Rules of Procedure who says, in his first position, that only what's on the agenda can be discussed. We, the Serbian radicals, have no objection to departing from some of the Rules of Procedures, because we are the ones who immediately warned that this Rules of Procedure should be changed. You, as chairman, no matter how tolerated you are, have to make sure that there is no discussion in any other direction, in the direction of praise or something long that has nothing to do with this law. We immediately warned you that the negativity of this Rules of Procedure, which you inherited from the five-octobar revolutionaries, is very potentially fatal to us working in this House. You inherited an act, a document that regulates the work of this parliament by those who entered this parliament, set fire to this building, and who put guns in people's mouths to achieve their democratic principles. They're the same ones who arrested 13,000 people in one night alone. They are the same ones who now share and spread their moral principles and their like-minded ones by taking the individuals they have sent to prison at the time of "Sablje" cannot see their eyes, and especially those who have prayed, the godmothers of The Hague tribunal, to take them away and never return them, and now they cannot reconcile with the fact that these individuals have won, defeated The Hague tribunal and those in the Rules of Procedure, this Rules of Procedure, have the right to make all kinds of jokes. About once you have to distance yourself, that would be good if this Rules of Procedure changed. We don't mind, we're just about that principle that everyone within the time available talks about what he thinks he needs to talk about, whether it's good or bad, that's what the citizens are going to decide in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33277	I thank my colleague Mircic. I believe that all colleagues who have been on the agenda so far, this is their way of talking about amendments and giving examples of certain results that should contribute to the adoption of this law. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? You don't want to. The word is from a colleague named Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33278	Dear Mr Arsic, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, states and units of local self-government must have a clear plan and development strategy. We are witnessing that in the cities and municipalities from which we come, the money of all citizens invested ad hoc as anyone wanted, that it corresponded to whom at a certain point, that the money of all citizens invested in projects that were not planned by development documents, in projects of these cities that were pre-determined to failure, and the money of all citizens thrown into the well. Plans for a strategy for which there was no real basis for ever being achieved without any consultation of the economy and the civil sector have been adopted. Honestly, I don't know what's worse, whether the adoption of plans without any real basis to be realized or not any plans have been adopted, planning documents, what was the case in many cities, and in this way there's been a blockade of urban development, because when you don't have any planning documents, you have illegal construction or you don't have any construction at all. This law changes this because the law defines the involvement of stakeholders in the process of adopting planning documents. So there is an obligation to include both the economy and the civil sector, and there will be a revision of the planning documents, of course, if that is the need, which has not been a practice so far. In this way, it will contribute to the accelerated development of Serbia, and certainly social equality will be achieved. My amendment is now heading in that direction, towards a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33279	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Petrovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33280	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, to Article 3. The proposal for a law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment adding point 10) and that is, the principle of efficiency that implies ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to tax liability. The proposed amendments further define the principles of governance of the public policy system. The integrated system of strategic public policy management is a prerequisite for a balanced and faster social and economic growth, thus overcoming the problem in the process of strategic planning and budgeting in the realisation of development priorities in the Republic of Serbia, is an imperative. The reasons for the adoption of the law on the planning system are that the planning system in the authorities of the state administration is not done in detail at the level of the law. This highlights the need to establish a legal and institutional framework that will enable citizens and bring about an environment where they can effectively exercise their rights and fulfil their obligations. The regulatory reform strategy and the improvement of the public policy system for the period from 2016 to 2020 have created assumptions for the improvement of the public policy management system whose full reform will be implemented through the implementation of the plan system law in the Republic of Serbia. All reform measures on the planning system we have heard a lot about from other colleagues are an important link along the way of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, which will certainly reflect positively on raising the level of tax liability of all to a much higher level.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33281	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bakery, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33282	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the Law on the Planning System, which deals with principles, and I have suggested that, in addition to 14 principles, the principle of efficiency be added. This is a new law that has come before us and is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. This is the law that leads the Republic of Serbia forward. According to President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia will be increasingly organised and decorated by law every day, so no one should be surprised that there are laws in front of this parliament, some new ones, and some are coming to change and supplement. I will quote Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the Deputy Prime Minister, who said – we will change the law if it takes every month, we will change them for a week, until these laws are in line with our citizens. All these laws that come before parliament, not just this one, have a role to play to provide our citizens with all the regulated rights. In addition to needing citizens to regulate their rights and freedoms, they have an obligation to regulate the rights and obligations of the state of all state authorities and institutions. This is a clear message to all our citizens that from day to day from law to law, Serbia will be a more regulated and stronger state and a clear message to all those outside Serbia, i.e. in Europe and the world, that Serbia has a strong and stable government, a strong president who knows and is seriously leading this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33283	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Pantovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33284	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to adding the principle of efficiency of planning, which implies Serbia's development especially in the area of increasing our country's infrastructure capacities. Great infrastructure projects make Serbia a better place to invest, connect with countries in the region, Europe and the world. Serbia is currently a major construction site, where modern roads, railways, waterways are being reconstructed in all parts of our country. What I would particularly stress is building a bypass around Belgrade and this is one of the most important infrastructure projects currently in our country. It is currently under construction of a bridge near Ostrunjica where the value of investment is 29.7m euros, and is also being done in part from the loop of Petlova hill to Orlovaca. In order to complete the construction of a tour ring around Belgrade, the rest of the highway from Bubanj Potok to Pancheva, including a combined passenger-rail bridge, needs to be built. The value of this investment has been estimated at 450m euros. Construction of the bypass will remove transit traffic from the central part of the city, reduce noise, pollution, that is, increase traffic safety. In this way, such serious public policies, the state administration achieves its goal, as well as improving the lives of citizens and providing key public goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33285	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33286	Thank you, Honorable Minister, Chairman, fellow Members, Honored Citizens, Amendments to Article 3. The draft law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the principles of public policy management, my colleagues from the SNS and I propose the introduction of the principle of efficiency, all in order to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. We've heard this a few times from my colleagues, but we're going to repeat and repeat what's good and what we're sure we can do and what we're sure citizens appreciate and that it's for the good of the state and the citizens. In these few years, as many SNS exercise power, we have shown what efficiency is in implementing public policies. We have found in every respect an impoverished and indemnity country, which since the day the SNS led Alexander Vukic, has recovered and put on healthy feet. I will, in the case of the activity of Mayor Milos Vučević and the city authorities of Novi Sad, confirm that progress is seen and that the principle of efficiency is manifested, and I am quite sure that my colleagues from Novi Sad, regardless of which political or parliamentary group they belong, can also confirm it. There is little time, only two minutes, to list everything that confirms this principle of efficiency and good management of the city, and therefore those who dragged us back are the political past of this country and therefore SNS and Aleksandar Vukic go unsustainably forward and daily we have an example, a confirmation of the great desire to return to the old. I'm sorry, but it's over, never again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33287	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mirko Krlić submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Mole, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will confirm once again, regardless of whether the government has already foreseen in its law any possible co-operation with Serbs in the region, but the principle of efficiency of Serbia's development always and at all times must think about the entire Serbian nation, it must think about the region and the region must be a priority of development which, we see, is really going in the right direction. I will remind you once again of our recent history, when we lost a huge number of businesses, because there was no planned and effective development among Serbs, so two Trepce became companies that fell apart, and today, where Serbs don't live in the queen, they're mostly the part that ran out of work, without bread and without the right to employment and normal life. Every law passed by this government, passed by this parliament, should always have that association with Serbs in the region. I will always try to point that out, discuss it and be the priority of overall action as long as I am a MP in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33289	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Popovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33290	Thank you, Chairman. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this article, point 15), which I have proposed, is being extended to the list of principles of public policy governance. Namely, ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and is the primary and strategic objective of this law. The development of our country primarily relies on investing in the professional training of young people and investing in infrastructure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that it handles these very principles, taking care of balanced regional development. In addition to the construction and reconstruction of large clinical centres, we have very important investments in health institutions in Belgrade. 7.5m euros will be invested in the reconstruction of the GAC in Visegrad, in the Pediatric Hospital in Zemun 3.5m euros, in the Dedinje Cardio-vascular Disease Institute, 17m euros in the Neurosurgery Clinic, 12m euros in reconstruction and equipment of the Emergency Centre in Belgrade, 3.9m euros. In addition, the House of Health in Borca, as well as numerous health stations, will be built, and the House of Health in Obrenovac will be reconstructed. Also among health priorities are the reconstruction of the KBC "Dragisa Misovic", the GAK "National Front", the Ortopedia of Banjica and the Institute of Radiology and Oncology. The plan system of investment in medical institutions in our country, as well as the adoption of medium- and long-term plans for development of medical centres, shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking to develop the country's overall development and raise the standard of living for all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33291	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rancic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33292	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Mr. Djordjevic, respected ministry gentlemen, respected colleagues and colleagues, is added to Article 3 point 15, which reads: "The principle of efficiency, which means ensuring overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving health conditions. “ This amendment, which refers to the principle of governance of the public policy system, is already attached to the existing amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The principle of effectiveness of health institutions defines specific state programmes in the field of disease prevention, early detection and effective treatment through the definition of the network of institutions in state and private property, technology and medical supply. In Serbia's health system, there is already an enviable level of development of the network of institutions and providing the population with healthcare workers, especially in primary health care. The concept of selected physician, primary health care, electronic health records, good clinical practice guides and pharmacovigilance protocols will only be confirmed. Also, by introducing an electronic recipe, an electronic instruction and other services based on the use of modern technologies, it will improve health conditions for treating our patients. For efficient work and better health conditions provided in Serbia, both nurses and technicians are needed, besides doctors. The number of nurses and technicians is 572, while in the EU the number is one-third higher and is 745 per 100,000 inhabitants. Since I have no more time, I would eventually invite all MPs from the opposition, and especially opposition doctors, if they have them in their ranks, to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33293	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33294	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, my amendment to the plan system law refers to efficiency, and in order to improve the position of particularly vulnerable groups. I must point out that all children, unfortunately, do not have the opportunity to live in their biological families with their biological parents for various and many reasons. By performing its social protection function, the state takes adequate care of them. In the context of the plan and deinstitutionalisation programme, I must stress that the Ministry of Labour has made it possible for the largest number of these children to be placed in foster families and in order to enable safety, safety, adequate incentives and, of course, the proper psychophysical development of children without parental ageing. I must point out that there are 20 educated foster families in Priboj Municipality who are taking care of 45 children in the best way and in order to protect the best interests of these children. These are of course not children only from Priboj, they are children from many municipalities from Subotica to Preshev. Respected citizens of Serbia, a yellow company at the time of government, besides firing 400,000 workers, besides bringing the country to bankruptcy, left, imagine, 30,000 legally invisible people. Thirty thousand people who existed, and in fact they didn't exist and couldn't exercise any of their rights, couldn't prove their identity, couldn't exercise their right to health care. (President: You are bringing the end of your colleague Jevtović Vukojičić. ) Immediately after coming to power, the Serbian Progressive Party passed a regulation, i.e. a law on subsequent enrolment and 25,000 of these persons, have become legally visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33295	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Please re-apply with your colleague, Prince. Just a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33296	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, for the sake of the public of citizens who are following this assembly debate, I would like to say that Article 3. The law defines the management of the public policy system. Article 3 sets out in 15 points 15 of the principles of that governance. In my amendment, I propose that point 15 be added, i.e. the fifteenth principle and amendment read in Article 3. The bill adds point 15) which reads: “The principle of efficiency that involves ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the development of the education system. “ Since I have proposed the effectiveness of planning by amendment to Article 2 where the concepts used in the law have been defined, it was logical to round the continent not only by my amendment, but also by my colleagues to add the 15th principle, which is the principle of efficiency. What should be said is that according to the government policy of the Republic of Serbia, which is responsible for economic, economic, overall social development, one of the crucial elements of this overall development is the development of the education system. The government has also shown its commitment to this by adopting a set of reform laws relating to the educational system in the present congregational assembly and debates. These laws, which have been introduced by many newspapers, will show their values in the future and will practically introduce advanced solutions in the course of its implementation that will affect the further overall development of the education system in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33297	I would like to thank my colleague, Knezevic. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal. Here's your bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33298	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, esteemed Ministers with Associates, fellow Members of the People's Parliament. The draft law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia prescribes the principles of governance of the public policy systems under which they are prepared, adopted and implemented the planning documents and reported on their implementation. The principles themselves are detailed in order to facilitate the interpretation of the provisions of the law, and hence their effective application. The amendment I have submitted is provided for in that same Article 3. The bill adds point 15) which reads: “The principle of efficiency that involves ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the efficiency of the judiciary, with the aim of further defining the principles of public policy management. The reform of the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia is based on five key principles – independence, impartiality and quality of justice, expertise, accountability and efficiency. These principles provide a framework for the establishment and organisation of judicial institutions, in order to create a judicial system that can fully protect the rights of all citizens, with continuous and labour promotion and in concrete application of those rights at each stage of the development of justice and the application of law. Under the principle of efficiency, the judicial system in which resources are effectively managed and rationally used in cases, acts and judges within reasonable time-limits is subject to a legally prescribed procedure, with respect for human and minority rights and freedoms guaranteed both by domestic and international regulations, which implies the taking of planned and defined activities in key areas such as reducing the number of old cases, equating judicial practice, simplifying administrative procedures in courts and prosecutors, human resources management, uniform distribution of cases among judges, informing the judicial system and alternative dispute resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33299	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Col. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33300	I thank the chairman. I would like to point out that, in addition to the principles set out in Article 3 of the bill, it is important to note the importance of effective action in addressing the issue of traffic integration and the construction of traffic infrastructure. As the proposal for a unit law is defined as a participant in the planning system, which determines public policies, I would like to point out that by coming to the power of the SNS, both at the republican level and at the management of the Ub municipality, it is systemically and in the long term planning its work and is responsible for managing the budget. The distribution of funds is absolutely justified, there is no late payment, in the reconciliation of obligations, and no delays in the implementation of projects. Efficient and economic approach to the production and implementation of planning documents products the results of work visible on the ground, starting with investment in health care, equipment with modern means of work, building new facilities. Then, rebuilding and building new schools. A year and a half ago, more than 20 million dinars were invested in the home elementary school in Ub, and the first elevator was built in the school facility. Two months ago, work was completed on heating and electrical installations worth 17 million dinars. The plan this year is to expand the school facility at the home school in Ubo by six classrooms, to build the first indoor pool. By the end of the year, a new kindergarten project is being implemented. The state has allocated 2m euros for this investment. As an important element in development, the construction of a traffic station has been recognised. In addition to using the location of the municipality through which the highway passes, construction of state and municipal roads and streets is recorded in Ubbu. Recently, the works on the construction of a traffic station and on the Uba periphery have been started and this is of paramount importance. The value of the investment is 105 million dinars, and it is of particular importance because all freight traffic will move into that street. So intensive work, investing in the foundations of developed society, will certainly contribute to a better life for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33301	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boban Birmancevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Birmančević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33302	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens, the amendment that I submitted to the 3rd Article of the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia concerns the principle of efficiency, and I wanted to define and strengthen this law through the principle of efficiency, and above all, to all the laws adopted and, above all, to the behaviour of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic from 2014 onwards, and today, the President of the Republic of Serbia has acted in accordance with the principle of efficiency and, more importantly, more effectively and responsibly both for the future and the state and citizens in the best possible way possible. And without the provisions of this law, the Government and the President of the Republic behave effectively and responsibly, and through this law we will have one item and one more reason to do so and also to provide for legal provisions. The application of the principle of efficiency also best shows the way the Government reacted in 2014. In May, we will have four years of an emergency situation, which for all in Serbia, including the government of the Republic of Serbia, was a huge task and a huge exam, but also a major test that the government of the Republic of Serbia, along with its citizens, has just passed. Why did she pass it? It is precisely because it has acted in accordance with the principles of efficiency and with the principles that things are being solved in the best possible way, but that it is in the most realistic time possible, because if it does not respond in quality, especially in the conditions of emergency, it can all be much, much worse for the state and for the citizens themselves. Let's just think of this emergency situation. Let us also remember in 2012 when we inherited the state almost in an emergency situation and count on it, the government will act in accordance with the principles of efficiency and accountability and behaviour of Serbia's best citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33303	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33304	Thank you. Respected ministers with co-workers, the government of the Republic of Serbia has prepared a bill governing the plan system in the Republic of Serbia. The main goal to achieve is to establish an efficient and transparent planning system, which would cover all key aspects of social and economic development policy in the state of Serbia. A system of responsibility for the results realised is also being introduced. It was difficult to see all the forms of an epidemic left behind by the DS after its devastating rule, destroying systemically every segment of our society and our country. When we were already at the bottom and when our country was threatened by the worst scenario, the SNS took responsibility for running the state. With wise and smart policy, President Aleksandar Vukic, the state of Serbia has also become an economic and political leader in the region. The state of Serbia is a fiscally consolidated, stable state. The state of Serbia is a country with a large number of investors, a large number of infrastructure projects and has become a country with respect and respect in the world. Serbian citizens understood this perfectly and therefore their support for the SNS in the elections is increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33305	According to the amendment, the word is a colleague of Shevarlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33306	Thank you. For days, I have been listening to discussions, which as a professor of the university, in part, not entirely, can certainly be assessed by the appearance of a new Resava school in the 21st century. It is a matter of those who decide and those who create such a policy of Parliament's work. The other thing I wanted to point out is the facts. It is undeniable that Serbia has made progress, but this progress has been made thanks, above all, to the withdrawal of salaries from state sector employees, pension pensions to pensioners and subsidies to farmers. The unquestionable fact is that in this year alone, 5.3 billion farmers have been denied under the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, i.e. over 15 billion if they are literally, Semanticly, as the professors of literature would say, apply the concept of incentives, because under the Law on Incentives, which you changed in 2014, instead of the funds that are defined as a minimum 5% under this Act for Incentives in Agriculture, and since 2014 are further defined as the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, which includes the salaries of agricultural employees and all other costs and activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, which are not disputed, but are not incentives. Also, I can't accept the fact that one country is an economic leader, and I'm undermining this economically, which has not yet secured a 2014 pension return. Finally, I am taking the opportunity and presence of Mr. Minister, who is deeply in charge of social issues, given that a law has been passed that encourages birth in Serbia and that it will apply from 1 July 2018, if I understand correctly, on the basis of which it can be justified that children born after 1 July will have certain privileges, and children born in several-day families before 1 July will not have any rights under that law, at least until that period until the period for which the use of these subsidies is prescribed expires? I'll give you one example. Maja Kovacevic of Kralje is a mother of eleven children, the oldest of whom is 13 years old, the youngest of nine months. She and those children who could fall under the provisions of the law after July 1st will not be entitled to use these subsidies. Well, please, Mr. Minister, consider a possible amendment to that law. I think it would be for the benefit and that at least at the earliest stage of childhood we shouldn't discriminate against children born before D and children born after D. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33307	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33308	Dear Vice President, I think you've violated the article. In 106 and 107, you did not warn the previous speaker because he humiliated the dignity of the National Assembly and all 250 MPs, especially MPs from the post, claiming to be a Resava school. I'm shocked by the statement of the university professor of distinguished colleague Ševarlic. He knows or should know or pretend not to know that in the course of first grade primary school, teachers and teachers at primary school and university professors, such as him, have their daily preparations. Honorable and honourable MPs have their own preparations. It is a responsibility to this high house, responsibility, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from a position towards our country and responsibility to the citizens. It is past time for you to excuse yourselves, under quotes, laziness in this National Assembly, but serious preparation, serious work, responsibility to the high home and to the citizens of Serbia. Please, I think you've violated this article, for not reprimanding it, but I'm not asking in the voting day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33309	All right. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with my colleague Atlagic. This is really something we have to react to, because it's totally unacceptable for someone to show up here, says he's been listening to something for days actually telling the truth. He hasn't listened to anything in days. He hasn't been in this room in days, and then it's no wonder we're hearing grades here that this Resave school, there's a lot more to it than that, and a lot more scandalous. For example, as it is said, the withdrawal of salaries and pensions is not a confiscation of wages and pensions of the fact that they are present and that they are more regular and that they are greater by more than 80% of those who receive them, and that they are preserved precisely by the pests that once were soullessly shared by themselves, which through donations by the public enterprises they have run, so they gave exactly to the members of that parliamentary group when they pretended to be an NGO. Hundreds of thousands, millions of even, from Kolubara, for example, so they gave it to this MP group while they were pretending to be an NGO, through ministries, hundreds of thousands of thousands of years in a year, so they funded themselves nicely, and today, when there's nothing wrong with them. And they found, imagine, what? Question -- what about salaries and pensions? The good news for all of Serbia, even for them, is preserved, so there are today. They couldn't eat those vermin like locusts. When they call for some professorial calling and some authority of that kind, does your professor have any reason to be offended here, to be surprised at the fact that he shares a parliamentary group with those who are Vuk Karadzic, who called Dosite Obradovic anti-Serb people anti-Serb, anti-Svetoslavic, anti-Svetoslavish people? Where was the sense of protection of good words, speech or anything when the parliamentary group was elected, when society was elected? In the end, if there is a problem with copying, sit down, ladies and gentlemen, you some in parliamentary groups with people who are from A to S all they have to say and propose politically, and have very little to do, copied and stolen from others, with the worst plagiarists of political sitting. First, take care of your backyard, and then look back at whatever you want, even what you don't know, obviously.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33311	The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33312	I'm surprised by one other thing, and that's the ignorance you've shown. I mean, you have the right to say whatever you want and you can tell the truth and by showing the citizens of Serbia that one is a completely different situation than the one in which they live, that you want to say that the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't care about its citizens, and everything is exactly the opposite and everything we do just shows the results and concerns of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards its citizens. The flatulence that you can increase something or deal with some categories of population or the populist to talk about some things, I think it's behind us and that policy has passed. You know, you're talking about having, of course, mothers that they have, it's not the only mother who has over four children, but then we'd have to take it and see what criteria we have to go backwards. Why just that mother? You have mothers who are born and who are still 80 years old today, who have more children. Should we give them too? You're making a fundamental mistake and you're not reading what the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants with this. The alarm situation is in the state of Serbia. The lack of children in Serbia will lead to all that we do being in vain someday. So it wouldn't be in vain, that all we do one day has someone to enjoy and have a normal state that will function and that won't have and allow the things that happened until 2012. Our desire is to encourage birth, not to help, not to help, but to encourage childbirth, to change the wheel and move the wheel into plus and to give birth to as many children in the state of Serbia. The way the state helps is another segment, and that's the Ministry of State whose head I am and where anyone who has the right and who finds that he's socially endangered can apply and get the help of the state. There isn't a person in this country who hasn't been helped by the state as much as there is. Do not forget that we are spending the money of Serbian citizens, that we are also responsible for making what we have the most rightful way. Would you like us to have more? Yeah. Should we be in charge of giving more? No, I don't. We just want what we earn to deploy in the best possible way. We haven't forgotten the farmers, and you know it very well. Even you participated in some projects of the same government where you were giving your knowledge of participating in projects and, of course, you were paid for it, and then it wasn't a problem for you. We want to hear all the experts regardless, and that's the fundamental difference between some of the former times, which the party belongs to. You need to give your knowledge to improve exactly the segment you're fighting for, and you know it very well. We can't talk about forgetting farmers. How did the farmers subsidize before? By watching some tycoons, someone else profit in all of it and subsidize it that way. Who got the least? It's the ones to be given, which are farmers. That's what farmers know. Of course, it would be much more convenient to give them an oil subsidy. There were stories here, I mean, the first day about it, but how did that oil end? In the hands of others, not farmers. The farmers, the vast majority, were bitter because it went into the wrong hands. In order for the state to come up with some rule of how and how it gives them, to deploy, and that these same farmers know that it's being deployed in the best possible way, it's being done legally, that not everyone can have their own idea of how and how and how it used to be, how much I'm in all of this. It's gone. That's why it's so much easier for you to watch it today, but the question is whether you want to be honest and talk about it. We have one of the laws here, which is a subsidy to make it possible for some people, when it comes to some oil derivatives, to have some convenience, not to pay double, to invest it in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33313	The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33314	Thank you. I wouldn't look back at the university's dictionary about laziness, regardless of the Semantic meaning and the reasoning we've heard about this concept in this building. What is certain is that there are prescriptions. I will prove this to you at the next session when I compare the stenographic notes on the discussions of individual MPs. Until then, let's leave it with an open question. Secondly, Mr. Minister, I read the law very carefully which was the subject of consideration and I said very carefully that it should not be D-day, we should not go back to 80-year-olds. Thank God, if they're alive and they're as old as our grandmothers, mothers and great-grandmothers. I said that day D could apply to those who were born before, but not so much, three years or 10 years, but to a period that would have been granted the right to subsidies if they were born that day D or the day after, and especially when it comes to decades-old families. Secondly, when it comes to agriculture, I think the Committee on Agriculture at the last session also supported my initiative, which I announced here yesterday in the National Assembly, and I expect the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture to launch an initiative to amend and supplement, because you cannot dispute the fact that the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development has not been applied consistently since the date of adoption of 2014 and 2013 respectively. We can do this mathematically and, if we have to, we can do a special public hearing on the subject, and we can discuss it professionally. I would be delighted that you are also taking part in this debate, because agriculture is not only a business activity, but it also has a social function in all countries, especially in the EU. Just remember, see how much more is allocated in the EU for rural development than is allocated to us in relation to the total resources allocated as incentives for agriculture. The other day we had a public hearing in a small joke about IPARD functions, and I never deny my knowledge to anyone. That can be assured of all those who follow my activities and who know how many lectures I teach in Serbia, without any payment. Also, as far as the remarks on the parliamentary group and belongings are concerned, I have not respected anyone's party membership. I have many objections to the conduct of the opposition MPs, although it is harder for me to determine who the position is and who the opposition is. Finally, Mr. Vice President, if you'll allow one more sentence. If I can just, buddy... So my presence in the parliamentary group is impartial, and you know it very well, and I would like non-party MPs from the ruling majority to stand out and form a parliamentary group of non-partisan MPs. Here you go, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33315	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33316	I understand that a man can be uncomfortable when someone reminds him that he chose society for himself and that he chose for himself which group he would be in, and then he looked a little bit at which particular group it was, so he's not comfortable until the end. I understand that. Anyway, let's not leave anything behind for another time, as it is said, to clarify or to explain. When I say copying, and copying, plagiarizing, and that's what they're talking about when they're talking about some of their names, political ideas, we've already talked about it in this room, and now I'm calling to check it out. The title "The Alliance of the Right Value of the Left works", which was one of the the thesis of the phenomenal call of the political programme. At the time, I claimed that the one who said it here, and it is precisely the president of the parliamentary group that belongs to those who have critically referred to our work here, so apparently alluded to the SNS, our parliamentary group, therefore, its president of the parliamentary group has declared this as his idea. Check it yourself, ladies and gentlemen, where he read it from. I'm telling you it's about a paper text from ten years ago. So much for originality, so much for understanding and some new qualitative content, that we don't lie, flagrant copying. Not to mention anything unsaid, when examples of life are given, so someone from the King is mentioned, to be honest to the end, so to speak, that woman was helped by the very authority that one cannot come up with. When did she get the apartment and who did she get it from? I heard, I checked it out within a few seconds, she was helped by the very ones you don't politically love, by the apartment. And that confession she got from who she got it from. When we talk about the measures being introduced, be honest and say, was it, for, Mr. Minister, the second, third and fourth children will apply from January 1st and if adopted in some months later. So if we want to criticize, we can, it's more than welcome, but to be fundamentally correct, it's an obligation for everyone. Once again, get rid of these plagiarists and people who used to abuse this country's budget, anything that's controversial internally, and only then to talk about someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33317	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33318	Mr. Orlic is right when he mentioned earlier that some MPs show up in this room from time to time and then they are the smartest and then they have everything to say, especially when they are still impartial or when they run from the party to the party. Yesterday, I was on the opportunity today, and you all probably saw it from one medium from one television MP, as it was, so rarely comes here that he can't even remember a man's name, but his nickname is Vlah, George Vukadinović, it's that he's running off the list just to get a hold of the MP's term. Imagine the genius statement he made on TV. He says something supposedly happened yesterday in this room. We all know that we had a debate about the amendments, that nothing happened, which is not usual for parliamentary life, for parliamentary work, but he says -- he wasn't in the O.R., he doesn't know exactly what happened, but he condemns what he didn't see, where he wasn't, and he doesn't know if it happened. Now, that's really the highlight of rudeness and it's an abuse of parliamentary function. As much as we think that an MP should have absolute width and the ability to plead, speak on whatever subject he wants, but in such a way speaking ill of the National Assembly is something that is absolutely inadmissible. That's the consequence of what Mr. Orlic said, that some just stop by occasionally, just to be seen, and then they're the smartest and then they know what's going on, instead of coming to sit down and work. The problem is, let's say, what the one who spoke earlier, sir, and this Vlach doesn't know whose name to speak on, because they don't even know whose list Scott brought them into the assembly, or who they belong to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33319	On what basis, Mr. Risticevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33320	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33321	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Tito's youngest councilman was here in a warm stand for agriculture. On the list over which he came to this party parliament that ruled and ran the government in 2006, he came from the list to this parliament. That year, 136m euros were set aside for agriculture on an annual basis, and he kept his mouth shut. Today, when it stands out 309 a year, he has a grudge. He was silent in 2011 when Dusan Petrovic led the Ministry of Agriculture, when 185m euros were issued for agriculture. He kept his mouth shut. Today when he stands out 309, he's not doing well today, and I've been claiming in my previous speech that it should be more, but we have to lift up the processing industry, get out of the processing industry, and even more lift up the appropriate agricultural production with a tendency to cattle, fruit growing and vegetables. It didn't matter to him. Co-operatives have failed. Co-operatives fell apart. It didn't matter to him. It was important for him to build a "Study on Co-operation" and to transfer Dusan Petrovic from the "Star Project" to him 62,000 euros and when he sent the request after 59,000 and something to pay him another two thousand and something, he met the request with Latin, and today he is heartily favouring the Cyrillic. There is an MP who, as doctors say, is a double personality. So, when you get the money from the yellow ones, that's good, even though it was less of an exemption from the subsidies for agriculture, even though the cooperatives were failing. Today, when cooperatives rise and subsidies rise, you are not doing well today because of this power you cannot get your money in private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33323	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I think I'm one of the most regular MPs on this side of the hall. You can see for yourself by checking the attendance records at the sessions. I remind you that once, at one vote, I was the only representative present on this side of the hall for four and a half hours. The only present representative on this side of the hall for four and a half hours. That I have also been one of the few MPs in many other cases, and I do not think the remarks you have made stand. Secondly, when it comes to the assets of the agrarian budget, as popularly called, it is determined at a percentage of the total budget according to the foundations of the budget system. Therefore, the comparison of absolute figures can only be when they are converted to relative indicators, and relative indicators show that none of these years or previous regimes have met the legal minimum of 5%, excluding in 2004, when approximately 5% and 4.98% were singled out for these purposes. Finally, when it comes to the "Study for Co-operation", I have never, I have never repeated it many times, and it is not a false truth, I have not received a fee of 60 and a change of thousands of euros. If anyone proves it, I am willing to give him so many thousands of euros by selling my apartment and leaving parliament at the same time, provided that the one who keeps saying it is false and knows very well that it is false. At the same time, that within 15 days unless he proves he has left parliament and paid me for the damage of 10,000 euros. I think it's fair six to one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33325	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can now hear that 136 million is more than 309 million. A colleague's height of the agrarian budget accounts exclusively for incentives. The agrarian budget includes the cost of the Ministry of Agriculture and that is close to the 5%, with a total of 824 billion public revenues collected in their time. From that same country, this government raises 1,180 billion. So if we were to raise the money they were collecting, we'd have exceeded 5% a long time ago. This government's costing 356 billion more than they've been collecting. Now the question is where did the 356 billion dinars go, or three billion euros a year, who shared with whom, who took that money, who missed out on these revenues, who paid the spot on the list of 640 thousand dinars, etc.? As far as 62,000 euros are concerned, I will be very happy to prove it. I've already shown here paper that meets the demand to pay up to 62,000 euros from the Star project Co-operation Studies, which my colleague did. So at the time, he didn't care that the cooperatives failed, it was important that the Co-operation Study, which could not be found, was charged 62 thousand euros, and the association over which the money went into his pockets was called the Association of Agricultural Economists, etc. And I'm going to show you this paper in the afternoon part very gladly, but I don't think a colleague will keep his word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33327	Thank you. Right on line, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33328	Two things first, I'd like to go back to the Financial Support Act for families with children. There will be a very quick opportunity here in parliament to talk about this law, that's the first thing. I'd just like to get the public to know the real facts. The right that has been acquired will not be taken away from anyone, the right that our mothers have and which they acquire by June 1st will be continued. That's why one of the members of this bill is changing in that direction. Of course, this is one of the measures that goes in one plus, showing that the state is able to subsidise, i.e. to encourage birth in Serbia and will certainly be neither the first nor the last. There will certainly be new measures, new incentives that will go towards encouraging birth in Serbia, and certainly every next one I expect will be even better than this, however we can present it, or if we can say that something is better than something when it comes to incentives. Anyway, we need to keep up with time and watch what results come from it and follow that, so that, most importantly, we have enough kids tomorrow. When it comes to funding agriculture, it's two things. First, we have, you say and you refer to the law, the roof law is the Budget Law and the Budgetary System Act, which can prescribe and somehow be different, and that's why it exists, so that the state, in accordance with its capabilities, could sort of deploy the budget in some way. The difference, as MP Risticevic said, is that we are not talking about the figures that were, whether there were 136, 185 or 309 million, the fundamental difference is how it is distributed. I think Minister Nedimovic does it in a great way, because he made one fundamental difference from what was before, which is that money is spent more transparently and goes into the right hands. I think it's more important for farmers to get one transparent way and that what the state has set out for them and get it, than to have it distributed differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33329	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Milojičić's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33330	Thank you, Your Honor. Speaking of agriculture, I'm going to refer to this extremely important topic. I hope the minister who spoke praisefully about the reforms that are now in place knows that farmers live, that the minister, I hope, knows that farmers can't make ends meet, that the minister knows that the farmers by 2012, had the amount of subsidies of 12,000 dinars and that oil was significantly cheaper then, that farmers now have a subsidy, which the SNS has reduced from 12,000 dinars to 2 thousand dinars. And for those two thousand dinars, they're not asked for blood type. I hope the minister knows how late he is with the payment of subsidies and for those two thousand dinars and on the basis of agricultural land and on the basis of the throats of different types of livestock, and not to mention the price of cereals, if I say that during DS by 2012, a kilo of grain was 25 dinars, now a kilogram of grain of 13 dinars, oil has accumulated not exactly double, but by 50%. Now you tell me how a farmer can make ends meet? It is not enough what you said, it is not true, and I hope that you can go to the farmer and talk to them, without it being in the election campaign, such as the minister you mentioned, Nedimovic, promised a new tractor in Koseric to every household that deals with agriculture. When the elections were over, of course, neither the minister visited Koseric anymore, nor did anyone get a liter of oil, let alone a tractor. I think agriculture is an extremely important topic. We had great losses in the previous year because of the drought. We continue to deal with agriculture by looking into the sky and praying to God what our budget will be. We do not have an agrarian budget that is scheduled for the next five years to do what Serbia will do, which cultures will focus on the agriculture sector and this is extremely bad. It is also extremely bad that 1200 young, educated, professional farmers were fired only because they were hired by DS from 2009 to 2012. These young and educated farmers, 1200 of them, helped people in the country. There is no time or opportunity, a man living alone with his wife, 70 years old, to go to town every day for advice. Maybe he doesn't have the money to pay someone who's graduated from college to advise him, so they're farmers, i.e. These assistants, 1200 of them, were extremely useful, not for any political party, but for the citizens of Serbia. I think there should be certain topics such as this, such as the military, such as Natalie, as we in Serbia today have a thousand villages with fewer than a thousand inhabitants, these are extremely important topics that need to be made a consensus. I think it's a problem for all of us because a thousand villages are shutting down, regardless of political, religious or national membership, and I think that in one really good and responsible way we should talk about these topics, and that of course there are topics that we will never be able to agree on and about which there should be political upgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33331	Right on line, Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33332	My fellow MP, I know very well how and how you deal with the economy, you showed it while you were also at the head of the municipality that you were and we know, and you and I were leading the controversy over it, how and how you managed finance, so we know what you left behind. You're saying some things here that you're wrong about. First, you claim and talk about Mr. Nedimovic who is not here. Minister Nedimovic is a nonstop on the ground, I know that, since he is a colleague of mine and I know very well that he is very committed to his work, to taking care of what he does and where he works and what he promises. Koseric visited, and I believe he will definitely visit again, because it is not only Koseric Serbia, he goes all over Serbia and is of course important to all of them. Now the election has passed and he is in the field and is daily in conversation with farmers, just looking at how and how to help them. You know, healthy logic doesn't say what you just said is true. On the one hand, you're talking about the price of grain being one, now it's lower, and you're saying that we can influence what the stock price is and what the ransom price is. If you think that the state of Serbia can work in the way you imagine economically, that when the stock market price is lower we give a higher price and go down to minus, I think you're wrong. You're talking about oil, just before I said, you know very well what the machinations were like when it came to oil. You gave oil as a subsidy, as a cheaper one, but that oil didn't go into the hands of farmers, it went to some other people, and you said that land compensation was bigger. Yeah, but who was she going to? That was a big difference. When you take it all together, what you were saying, it was 130 to 180m euros, and here you say today, it's 309. Today we don't give, as you say, great subsidies, and farmers get almost twice as much money for subsidies as they get in your time. I said, the fundamental difference is that now it's divided in a transparent way and much fairer, and I think that's much better, and I'm not even talking about sharing it twice as much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33333	Right on the line, MP Milojicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33334	Thank you. Minister Djordjevic, I was talking here about an extremely difficult situation in which farmers are found. Everyone, if not every day, every other day I'm in different parts of Serbia, there is no farmer who says the situation in agriculture is good. Those who worked in an untransparent way, as you say, and I'm sure that's not true, why didn't you arrest them when you were in power for six years? Now that you've answered, I've told the facts and data that by 2012, the agricultural subsidy was 12,000 dinars, you've reduced it to 2 thousand dinars. That the price of grain was 25 dinars, that now it's 13 dinars. Of course, no one can influence the stock price of grain, but it can help farmers otherwise. That the price of oil is now almost 40% more expensive than it was back then. That agricultural producers dealing with the purchase of milk or the production of milk are dissipating milk. You said to me: "You have no hair." Okay, okay, and will farmers be better off than that? Of course not. I don't want to answer in some political way on this extremely important subject. Yes, it is true that Minister Nedimovic was in Koseric and promised every family tractor. I'd be happy if he did, because those farmers in Koserić would live better. The topic is not only Koseric here, but the topic is the whole of Serbia. I said that Serbia, this is the sixth agriculture minister in six years, has no plan, a five-year agrarian plan to do in the area of agriculture. How many problems we had last year just because of the drought. God forbid it ever happens again. Yes, I was the president of the municipality when we had catastrophic floods, when eight thousand acres of agricultural hurricanes were destroyed and still no channels were made, 12 pump stations were not repaired. It's a system solution. It's not a system solution to what you're going to give to the farmers today or tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33335	Right on line, Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33336	Mr. Mircic, bad measures don't get the results right away, they give with time. The bad measures you've implemented, of course, are now the results, and of course we're not running away from farmers living badly and not running away from us wanting to help them and that we want to improve their position. That's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia does. You're talking about spilling milk. I didn't see it happen now, but I remember that in your day, pigs fed on that milk. Now, maybe it was better meat, but I don't think it was the measure that was good for it. What you're saying is that the subsidy was one and now the other. You're talking about having fewer farmers, and we have nominally larger subsidies two and a half times. There's something wrong. Either you're not telling the truth or I am. I think this controversy is better when there's a Minister of Agriculture here, and I'm just gonna tell you that the people need to know. In your time, and today the euro is the euro, 136m euros, today is 309m euros. It is known today and you can look very well at the website, who and how these funds are allocated. This is what the people need to know and what the citizens need to know, and farmers need to know that the state of Serbia will take care of them and that surely everything the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing in the coming years will advance our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33337	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milorad Mircic, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleague, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33338	We have also submitted an amendment to this article with the intention of helping you to sort out this bill a little bit, because after almost three days of debate, we can definitely argue that neither the motionor nor the participants in the debate are clear, in fact it is not clear what public policy is. Of course, what it is is politics and what it is public work in politics, political life is not the subject of this law. You're here, we've already turned your attention, obviously with a bad translation, we've made such a radical combination. We have proposed instead of public policies, that there be a development strategy. It's something that's common, and you say the ministers, or the government, that you can't accept it because the document of public policy is broader than the concept of a development strategy. But you still haven't explained what this document is public policy and then it's impossible to compare whether it's a broader concept or narrower than what we're proposing. So, this amendment is clean, I'd say, language editing, formal law enforcement. It doesn't really change anything, but don't suggest, and these laws that will later be incomprehensible in the application of the law, because this is really an abstract term. What's the theme of this law is it's hardly possible to change into this very term that you've proposed here and that throughout the law you're proposing. Don't we have more time for Arsic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33339	You don't have any more, thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bulatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33340	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I submit an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, and I propose that Article 4 add to Article 3 which reads - the planning documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rule of law. Speaking of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, today is a completely different story than some earlier times, and I am free to say that Vranje is also like the headquarters of the South, or the Pcinj Management District, that there is a different treatment. The city of Vranje in continuity realizes the policy of planning and realising capital investments. In co-operation with the European progress, a capital investment plan was implemented for the period from 2018 to 2022, which was adopted by the City Assembly in December last year. This plan is a public strategic document setting out the main guidelines for the investment development of the city for the next five years in relation to local community needs, as well as available financial resources. This document creates conditions for more rational spending of money from budgets and more efficient use of external sources of funding for capital projects. The Capital Investment Plan is one of the main mechanisms for efficient management of Vranj capital investment with a specific focus on planning, as the planning and realization of capital investments are a determination of the sustainable development of the local community. I would just mention some of the projects that are currently being implemented, first of all the completion of the surgical block, the construction of the Regional Emergency Centre, the construction of a new kindergarten, the continuation of the infrastructure equipment of the free zone, the construction of the Waste Water Treatment Factory, the expansion of the “Meteris” dump and the construction of the Regional Recycling Centre, the continuation of reconstruction and the equipment of educational institutions, the reconstruction of the city stadium, the construction of tourist and sports-recreative facilities in Vranjska Banja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33341	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Manojlovich, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, in Article 4. The draft law shall be added to paragraph 3 and this amendment shall define the purpose of the planning documents relating to the strengthening of economic resources. I must point out that in one system, extremely bad, we spent more than a decade and that such a plan system, even if it was a plan, and then there was, brought Serbia into such a bad situation that today we can't say that it was harmless and that, behold, we just woke up from a kind of nightmare, but we've been really trying since 2012 to lift Serbia from a deep coma in an economic and economic sense. After good plans on sound grounds, this system has been consolidated both ours and ours on the way only really good progress. Many here have objected to the adoption of such a law, and indeed should be praised, because since 2012, thanks to the energy and the president of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, Serbia has launched, local self-government has been launched, all levels of state have in one much more dynamic way started to realise their goals, but this is the good part where this amendment points to the purpose of plans, which is that they are controlled, that these plans are measurable to all that this bill provides, the most significant segment is that they will be measured through the satisfaction of Serbia's citizens, and that is what during this debate and my colleagues from SNS and I have mentioned many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33343	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33344	Thank you. Dear Chairman, our country has a system reform of public finances that is seen in reducing budget deficits to the level of the current surplus. A reduction in public debt, I have already pointed out that the World Bank provides for a reduction in public debt, which is 56% in 2018, 52% in 2019 and 52% in 2020. And all this, with economic growth expected to be 3% in 2018, in 2019 3.5% and 2020, is 4%. Dear Ministers, as a member of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public finance spending, I would like to commend this set of economic laws because the laws are well measured, the laws that will bring a good economic effect and which regulate systemic changes and clearly define the role of economic institutions, laws that are fiscally neutral and which will by no means burden the taxpayers or citizens, nor the economy of Serbia. The laws are very good and I will support them in the voting day. I would like to point out with pride in the end that, in addition to the latest World Bank reports, the positive, of course, IMF, we have the latest report from the European Commission that gave a positive report on economic reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33345	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Todorovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33346	Dear Ministers Djordjevic and his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, live in the town of Nis, in the area of the largest city municipality – Medjana, which is also one of the largest municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. The town hall of Mediana, given the confessions and praises it's been getting lately, is moving ahead with big steps. The town municipality of Medjana is concerned about the most intelligent politics and families with three and more children, according to the Three Plus Children's Movement, the fifth of 169 towns and municipalities in Serbia as the only city municipality, i.e. a municipality that is not a unit of local self-government. The recognition of the Three Plus Children's Movement was also given to the town of Loznica – Zlatna koleveka, Municipality of Nova Varoš – Srebrna koleka, Municipality of Kursumlija – Bronzana koleka, Municipality of Čaetina – A proud cradle. This Medjana City Municipality award was awarded to every firstborn child in the municipality's territory on Sunday, with 10,000 dinars, and to each third-born child in the family of 120,000 dinars, as well as to finance out-of-body fertilisation each year for 20 couples with 200,000 dinars, and a fourth child of 240,000 dinars is also being considered. All actions held by the City Municipality of Median, concerning the most intelligent policies, implementations, of course, both the state of Serbia and the Government and we are in line with these concrete measures that are already in the strategy of my city municipality. We are already a municipality for example in southern Serbia to encourage the birth and stop the white plague, but we want absolute leadership on that plan. In addition to caring for the youngest, the City Municipality of Medjana is trying to provide services to its citizens efficiently and professionally. The result of such work is the second place in Serbia's Mediana municipality by the number of registered housing communities. Citizens of the City Municipality of Mediana have shown exceptional security and commitment in the fight against the gray economy... (President: You bring the end, counterpart Todorovic. )......................................................................................................... Well, according to the Serbian Post Office on March 13th of this year, the Mediana was second in line...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33347	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Comrade Joviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33348	Ladies and gentlemen, a developed and stable health care system is one of the most important elements of an orderly society that creates a sense of security among citizens. It is the amendment that I have submitted to Article 4 which deals with concepts and types of planning documents that aims to underline the importance of planning in the public health system, i.e. in the health care development system. When we talk about public health and when we talk about the health system, of course, we need to put a few elements in the focus of planning. The first element is personnel, the second element is space, the third is equipment, the fourth – consumable material and, of course, fifth, perhaps very important is the standard of staff in the health care system. So, I expect that in the planning documents that we will bring in the next period, these very elements that I mentioned will be the focus of planning and that we will never again allow the health care system in Serbia to be in the same chaotic state that we found it in a few years ago. The efforts made by this government and the previous two governments have indeed put out a good part of the fire in the public health system, but I now expect that the planning documents will provide a stable system in the future and its further development, and, of course, for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33349	Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Mikhailo Jokic. Comrade Yokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33350	Gentlemen, for the implementation of public policy and for planning at the local site, it is necessary to task local self-government to write down all their assets. I see a lot of people here who were or were mayors and presidents of the municipalities. I responsibly claim that over 50 local self-governments do not know what property he has. In order for this property to be listed in order to be operational, to generate income, it must be done urgently in the next period. In order to do so, it is not enough to adopt a regulation, regulation and law, that the Ministry of Local Self-Government should monitor the business permanently until it is done, or if it is not done to prescribe certain sanctions, and those sanctions may be the abolition or reduction of transfer funds. All this is sufficient reason to increase the standard of citizens by local self-government, it should contribute on the other hand to reducing the tax on citizens' property and we here realize that the tax on citizens' property in the years to come can no longer be increased. The building ministry has invested funds, people are hired, assets are listed, and here I am responsible for saying that up to 60, 70% of them pay property tax, 30, 40% of them don't pay. If the tax was lower, the percentage of those who pay would be higher and the amount in the budget of local self-government would be much higher. And then, of course, the standard of local citizens would be much higher. It's something to take care of when we talk about public policy implementation at the level of locals and planning. (President: Bring the end of your colleague Yokic. ) This must be a task for the Ministry of Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33351	On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... My colleague Rističević, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment, you have certainly looked at this amendment the way I was challenged and called not to tell the truth. So I was asked for evidence. Here is the Star project for the development of livestock on the Old Mountain says – Association of Agricultural Economists, Doctor, my colleague sitting there, Miladin Ševarlic, 60,000 approved, paid 57,661 euros. I note that the project was supposed to be for the development of livestock in the Old Mountain near Piroth. Afterwards, he received another sum, received the amount of consultant (of course not) 4.518 euros. Collect whether it's 62,000, as I said, yes or no. There's also a report from the Ministry that that money has been paid off. Then let's move on. Here's the control he himself participated in and signed that he got that money. We haven't found anyone from the Association of Agricultural Economists from these engineers who got some money, meaning 62,000 euros were paid. Here we have the invoices, of course, everything with his signatures, right here. Here is the invoice 1 – 24,000 euros, paid for 27.10.2011 in power was Minister Dusan Petrovic, if you agree. Then it's December 10, 2010 is the second invoice, I don't know if it's going in order, 18,000. The invoice of the next 24,000, therefore, required another 2,900 to pay off a certain Iranian man, Kaveku Sarmastu, and asked for another 1,050 euros for some of his expenses, so he still asked for 2,100 euros, with few 62,000 euros. So, I don't expect my colleague to keep his promise and resign, but whoever wants to be here can control these papers, compare them to the Ministry of the Originals. So, the STAR project, but it's not the only one who got that money, I admit it, they've still got Kish and that team of different yellows, it's not the only one who got the money, but it's got him on the contract of the Association of Agricultural Economists and still no other agrarian economist has been found who got that money. His signatures are everywhere, and among other things, I said that some requests were written on the Latin. Here's proof, the camera can catch it. So his request for payment of funds was written in Latin, and he's a great fighter for the protection of Cyrillic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33353	I'll give you my word, Mr. Chevarlich, if I were you, I wouldn't answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33354	Thank you very much. So you had a chance to hear the avoidance of facts. All projects are always signed by the project manager. Therefore, I never said that the Association of Agricultural Economists had not received a certain amount, and it is not the only project that the Association of Agricultural Economists realised, but Mr Risticevic claimed that I received 60,000 for projects. It's an absolute lie. I will prepare for the next session the details of how much of these couples I received personally, and I can tell you that this second amount, which is listed, if I am not mistaken for four thousand and some euros, is the fee that I received for participation at the invitation of your president of the country, then, for participation in the work of the expert group for the development strategy in 2014 until 2020. So it's paid off by your regime. I've never received more than that four thousand before. After that, I received a higher amount than your regime, I think, six thousand and a few euros, for a study of agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia in which I showed on page 48 and 49 that the state refers to the agricultural profession, because from nearly six thousand hectares, I'm just talking about it, which I'm giving without a fee for use, 22% is given to prisons, and 0.5% for three agricultural colleges in Serbia. Now you can see what conditions students, masters and doctors work on at the Faculty of Agriculture in Belgrade, then in Novi Sad and Cačka. I'm just talking about state colleges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33355	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable viewers, now you've made sure who's telling the truth and who's bypassing the truth. So, the claim is, I did win, but I didn't get that much. So, with the claim that he's got something from this regime, it's just proof that we don't hate political opponents. At the time he got the money from the Star Project, I couldn't even get close to that project. The project is called, as I said, the Strategy for the Development of Agricultural Co-operation in the Republic of Serbia. It was also a conflict of interest, because he was a member of more cooperatives at the time. So he wrote a strategy for the development of cooperatives and one by one the cooperative fell. They all fell apart and now we're rebuilding cooperatives, cooperatives that can no longer get those assets that they've ruined. Here's a 24 thousand-euro strategy, so that was 40% of that amount, and here's Mr. Chevarlic's signature. So he invoiced those 24,000 and I invite the Association of Agricultural Economists to call me another agrarian economist who got something from this money, and if he got all the credit. Here's another invoice. Thirty per cent, 18,000 euros since 10 December 2010, the same signature of a respected gentleman. Here, the third invoice, which was, too, a strategy for the development of agricultural cooperative in the Republic of Serbia, a strange strategy, 15 thousand euros, or 20% and finally, was few, so the number four invoice is also sought, on the basis of and so on, we are looking for 80,039 dinars as much as he thought the difference required on December 10, 2010. In the end, with the Latin, he wants us to pay off what's called the so-called "Latin." Iran's cooperative expert, he must have wanted to grow pistachios, so he also asked us to pay the gentleman in question two thousand and 900 euros, 1050 for the trip, and especially 2100 euros to him again. Here, if I'm lying, the camera certainly isn't lying, so it's absolutely true that during the government of the former regime instead of developing livestock production 12.5m euros from the STAR project, which was a loan to the World Bank, though very favourable, seven percent interest, no livestock development on the Old Mountain, but strange consultants were developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33357	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33358	There's only one thing I don't understand. I listened carefully to my fellow MPs, as well as the previous MP from the DS. One claims that a strategy developed for the development of agriculture and the money received, even we as the Government were giving, and then we heard from the DS that it didn't exist, and since they belong to the opposition bloc, I just want to ask because we have a strategy or we don't have a strategy?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33359	We're moving on to the amendments. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Chevarlich. Just a little while to see if you have time for Mr. Chevarlich to make an amendment. You've got 12 seconds. Here's 12 seconds, please. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33360	Mr. Minister, the strategy is done. Here he sits, the then Minister of Agriculture, the People's Parliament, and he knows very well that the strategy was done, although it was done in the period prior to its entry into office, when the minister was a colleague of Professor Dragan Glamocic. Is that enough? But they weren't done, as far as I know, national programmes for the development of agriculture and cooperatives. As far as the strategy is concerned, let me still... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33361	You got 20 seconds over, almost a minute. The right to replica has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33362	Can I give you two minutes? Ambassador Ševarlic, here to be collegiate and to call you, please only the next time there's an MP from the DS, to meet them, since they obviously weren't at Parliament's session when the strategies were being discussed, to introduce them to you that the government has brought strategies and is working on a strategy for agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33363	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to allow its participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to grant the MP's mandate to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Despotovic, elected from the electoral list Dr Vojislav Seselj – SRS. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Despotovic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask that he prepare himself to take an oath. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear that the duty of a national envoy will be carried out in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and for the best of my knowledge and to be able to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice" I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. We continue to work on the agenda of the session. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33364	Thanks to the adequate attitude towards development, investment and incentives, ladies and gentlemen, we do today have real and sustainable results that we are talking about both during today's debate and during yesterday, and the fact is that growth in Serbia has been ensured, where this growth has been forced, that it is determined, that it is sure, that it is not based on the once loose, often imaginary categories that have allowed it to collapse, and so much to go into a difficult minus. Today, growth in our country is based on investment, and this growth is based on exports. That's why he's stable positive. When it comes to incentives and programmes that our state has launched in terms of support, we have repeatedly faced a claim that is completely untrue, the claim that only foreign capital carriers in the Republic of Serbia are helping and providing examples that confirm a completely different practice, that when it comes to producers from our country, owners of our capital, are assisted through these programmes and producers such as "Seninica" Sanatex, such as "Neli" from Loznica, "Emilitosteker" from Prepolje, companies from Srljlig, Krugnja, Ruma, Sremska Mitrovica, Belgrade companies operating outside Belgrade, or other municipalities, producers such as "Zlatiborac", "Bekamenta", "Cips branch", etc. Thanks to good opportunities, we today have more for several thousand established new businesses and natural societies at an annual level than in 2012, and nearly 20,000 on an annual level less closed, or shut down. Only that difference speaks enough on the subject of stable opportunities and speaks enough on whether Serbia can really work today, attract and finally live in relation to the dark weather that we definitely left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33365	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic. Here you go, colleague Tomašević Damnjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33366	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in Article 4. The proposal for a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia has been prescribed that the planning documents are acts that set goals for the participant in the plan system, sets public policy priorities, or plans measures and activities to achieve them within the framework of its competence and in relation to its functioning. I have submitted an amendment to which Article 4 adds Article 3, which reads: "Plan documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of judicial institutions." The process of development in the Republic of Serbia is present in all areas of our society, because we seek to live modern and normal and in a decent state, and we can only achieve this by work and effort. That is why the state of Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic and this government are doing a lot when it comes to reforming all areas of society, including the judiciary sphere, in order to get a judicial system in which judicial institutions are free of any illicit influence and to allow citizens equal access to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33367	National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague Jolovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33368	Dear Ministers, when we talk about defining the purpose of the planning documents, it should be stressed that these are acts that set goals in the planning system, set public policy priorities, or plan measures and activities to achieve them, and within their respective competences and in relation to their functioning. The draft documents contain a vision, i.e. the objectives of the development of the Republic of Serbia and the region, as well as guidelines for their achievement. The reason for this amendment is to put a special accent on better access to economic resources, and when drawing up planning documents, an analysis of the development potentials of the Republic of Serbia, international economic and social trends and the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia to take advantage of development potentials in these trends is required, and this amendment more precisely defines the purpose of the planning documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33369	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Mitrovica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33370	Dear Mr. Arsic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 4th-member proposal saying that the planned documents bring about a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the stability of the dinar course. The amendment defines the purpose of the planning documents. This law regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the management of public policy systems. As a result of an unsettled public policy management system, a large number of public policy documents have been produced and adopted at the republican and local level, many of which are unrelated, often out of line with different standards of quality and level of dilution. For these reasons, it is important to adopt the law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia. That a good plan is the basis for achieving results in any area of evidence is a plan to increase the physical volume of production in the company Jumko from Vranja. This company has opened its plant in Bujanovac, where 65 workers are currently working. It is prepared to adapt the production space and install machines where another 65 workers would be employed, totaling 130 new jobs. For Bujanovac, it is an extremely big and important thing to open factories after 18 years and employees of the territory of our municipality. Remarkable gratitude to the general director and management of Jumka, the Ministry of Business, and special gratitude to Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic, who in 2014, during a visit to Jumka the time of the strike of workers, only believed that this factory had a perspective, which I finally proved correct. I ask my fellow MPs to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33371	Thank you. National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Janošević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33372	Thank you, Chairman. When we talk about the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia and when we state the importance of the effectiveness of planning, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has so far effectively implemented its plans. You can choose a topic, are we going to discuss the economy, security, health care, education, just tell me if we're going to have a parallel discussion about the chronological trail of events that happened in the past, or just take care of the most important subject, what is going on today, and how is the situation found today? I am witnessing the efforts made by Minister Knezevic on the development of micro-mal and medium-sized enterprises and how much effort has been made to get the company's "Esex" South Korean company into the town of Zrenjanin. I'm also a witness to how we work on security. I am encouraged by the project "The Police Work in the Community", which represents the involvement and partnership of police with local actors, i.e. responsibility to the public. When you mention agriculture, I express my satisfaction because the villagers will surely be more satisfied and, of course, the health care experienced by absolute rebirth. I therefore submit this amendment in order to develop the planning documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33373	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Veljkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33374	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with fellow workers, starting with the fact that refugees and internally displaced persons have been the most endangered category in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia has been making significant efforts and resources since 1991, to ensure the acceptance, temporary accommodation and assistance of the most vulnerable persons, who cannot afford to live on their own. Also, adequate health care has been provided in the same volume and content and under the same conditions as other insured persons. Refugees and displaced persons in the Republic of Serbia are largely equal with citizens of the Republic of Serbia in terms of labour rights. In this context, they can apply as unemployed persons in the National Employment Service, access all active employment policy programmes, access employment, apply for job vacancies, and there are all measures of affirmative action aimed at the qualification and retraining of the unemployed in line with labour market needs. In terms of education, this sensitive social group has the same right to education, with the exercise of rights in the field of student and student standards by applying a milder criteria, and all in accordance with the law on student and student standards and decisions of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. In addition, this category of persons belongs to a part of the social protection rights rights such as housing in social protection institutions and foster families, professional social services, one-time material assistance and the right to accommodation in social housing facilities in protected conditions, in accordance with the decisions of local self-government units on extended rights. The resolution of all accumulated problems in different spheres of life is based on principles of respect for human rights, respect for the human dignity of each individual, the availability of rights and services on equal grounds for all, the active participation of refugees and internally displaced persons in finding the best solutions. All these complex activities are implemented precisely by the planning documents treated by these laws, including the National Strategy for addressing refugee and internally displaced persons for the period from 2015 to 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33375	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Member Compirović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33376	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 4, I submit an amendment to Article 3 which reads: "Plan documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the judiciary. “ It is very important for our country’s development to function effectively in the justice system and in general work to improve judicial institutions. To this end, Serbia has brought the National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018, followed by a phase of improvement or precise definition of the adopted legal framework, the professional strengthening of the established institutions of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, the Judicial Academy, as well as the integration of the judicial reform process with the process of Eurointegration. In the beginning of the work of the Judicial Academy, a legal framework for the contemporary education of judges, prosecutors and other judicial employees was established. They started with the work of two regional offices – the Department of Justice Academy in Kragujevac and Novi Sad, which work and organise training for the holders of judicial functions. The improvement and strengthening of the expertise of judicial authorities and judicial staff achieves the effect that we all want to achieve, which is the confidence of citizens in the judicial system and equal access to justice. We are doing and building our society and all of this in order to bring our country to a better standard, to remove the damage caused by the DSS and the damage to these fellow opposition colleagues who today have a hard time sitting and working in congregation benches, even though the citizens gave them a vote, is proof that they have not even learned from their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33377	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Petkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33378	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment to Article 4 where Article 3 is added. Proposal for a bill on the planning system. The digitalisation process, which is the basic precondition for economic growth in modern times, changes everything. It is a great opportunity for Serbia and leads to historic changes in the business world. We will agree that active engagement in the digitalisation and economy process can contribute positively to the fight against unemployment. In addition, the IT industry represents one of the largest employers, since on average for each new job it generates new five jobs in other areas of industry, such as banking, trade, auto-industry, education. On the other hand, we have positive experience in terms of the effects of digitisation on GDP growth, which is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. Of the other positive effects there are, above all, innovation and increasing business efficiency, and the development of completely new industries is based on digital technologies. Respecting the significant potential of digitisation in the context of economic growth, it should work to define digital strategies and policies, in order to establish an adequate framework necessary to build the necessary infrastructure, which is the basis for new business models. First of all, it is based on electronic business, but also a framework that will regulate and protect competition, encourage the application of digital technologies and not only in the public sector, but also in the business sector. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Serbia plays an important role in creating an educational policy, ensuring adequate education and retraining of employees in order to facilitate their transition to new digital occupations. It is also difficult to expect significant effects of digitisation without providing confidence for citizens and business entities in an online transaction, which implies the existence of an adequate regulatory framework in relation to the protection of their privacy and security. When it comes to the advantages that market digitisation brings to small economies, the most significant are the expected savings.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33379	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Turk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33380	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of the bill on the planning system aimed at defining the purpose of the planning documents. The documents, of course, set goals in work and set priorities, plan measures and activities to invest in all our landscapes and achieve a balanced development of all our regions. Realist plans are also indicators and a reflection of the country's responsible and serious attitude towards the development of all, and particularly undeveloped areas in the Republic of Serbia. A thoughtful, domestic planning with analysis of decision-making and setting clear goals is, in fact, the key as well as the allocation of available resources in the budget. The goal, of course, is to ensure sustainable growth and development and to constantly monitor and insist on responsibilities during this process of planning and achieving objectives. The plans concern both reconstruction and construction of existing infrastructure in order to ensure integration in the region as a prerequisite for creating a favourable economic environment and attracting investors. We have to catch up with the world, with modern technologies, we have to be competitors in this competitive environment and in the race for investors. Every segment of the reforms implemented during the past period has actually been a step towards modernization towards recovery and towards creating conditions for a better quality life for all of our citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Every time, citizens said unequivocally that the only policy of the SNS was possible and realistic, and each time they supported the SNS and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33381	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33382	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, we can say that this planning law is the basis and basis for development, not only of local self-government, but of countries in general. Why do I say that? Because adequate planning for development is actually a prerequisite for the progress of local self-government. With the progress of local self-government, therefore de facto is happening and the development of the state as a whole. However, in addition to my apostrophe of the importance of planning, I would also point out what we faced in 2012 in time with the takeover of power. We have encountered a practical, disintegrated, anarchy and the haughtiness of unprecedented proportions in most local self-government. I'll just mention what we found in the township of Prokuplje, and in light of the planning of the staff. So, first of all, what's found is extra employees on indefinite working hours, 300, about 320 people were at that point employed at a certain time in local self-government. Local self-government, so the municipality of Prokuplje, along with direct budget users, employs about 1,000 people. It's one absurd, because local self-government singled out about 80% of the transfers for employees only. We came into a situation when we found such a state, that practically local self-government didn't have enough chairs to sit down these people. So one large number of people stood, some never came. We simply have to understand, first of all, I'm talking about the opposition that planning is the essential thing and that all this is about anarchy, powerlessness, destruction, the past in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33383	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33384	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose this amendment to be in Article 4. The bill adds Article 3 which reads - Planish documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the improvement of medical institutions. This further defines the purpose of the planning documents. The market in Serbia, including the maritime district, is variable. The conditions of the company depend on the relationship of power to decision-makers, so that in the perspective of some out-of-budget business can be reduced. This does not mean that there is no need to continue fighting for the market, to participate in decision-making and regulation, to engage in improving the quality of work, in order to make the expected changes in market conditions easier to overcome. In particular, with the change in market conditions, the network of institutes and the Institute of Public Health is facing the problem, primarily in the part of the provision of out-of-budget assets in total income with unfair private competition, providing funds for the realisation of some of the specific objectives, which is possible through lending, thus equating the public sector with private, primarily in the work of refurbishment of infrastructure, equipment, etc. The poor quality of tests and reagents for work in the Institute's laboratories, which after the public procurement procedure has been carried out, are delivered to institutions, disrespect for delivery deadlines, termination of contract co-operation of the Ministry of Environment with mobile eco-toxicological units of the Republic of Serbia, the City Public Health Office of Belgrade, Public Health Institute, in case of acidic situations. According to the above, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to allow the networks of the Institute and the Institute of Public Health of Serbia to participate in the market evenly, through permission to achieve the same rights, to realise specific objectives.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33385	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lucic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33386	I thank my colleague Arsic. Respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the principle of effectiveness of planning would mean harmonising the relationship between imagined results and investments, with a view to giving the result with as little investment as possible, as well as giving investment as possible to achieve the greatest result. If we have a specific tourist facility, in order to have as many guests as possible, or as much income as possible, the potential of this facility should be used best. As an example, I take the Centre of Children's resorts of Mitrovac, located on the same mountain of Tara, at an altitude of 1082 meters. If this lobby of Raja, as Mitrovac called our celebrated actor Ljuba Tadic, would be presented in as optimal a way as possible and would make maximum use of the facilities and potentials of the resort by presenting it to the general public and making it more accessible, by making it better connected with the airport of Ponikva, other parts of the mountain of Tara, Bajina Basta and Užic, as well as the proper use of the facilities that exist and are very well organized, as well as those that should appear in the future, such as panorama gondola and higher in Zavina, as well as the aqua park in a suitable location. We would come to the fact that the resort would be filled throughout the year, so that children from other countries could be accepted, which would enjoy the beauty of the most beautiful region in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33387	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33388	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposed Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia covers all aspects of social and economic development policy in units of local self-government, autonomous province and the Republic of Serbia. By passing this law, the planning system which had inadequacy in terms of inefficiency will become much more efficient, more transparent and with optimal use of budget funds much cheaper. Planish documents set targets, set priorities, or plan measures to reach them. Education as an important segment of all social activities is a fundamental basis for society as a whole. Systemic planning of the school system and adapting to the needs of the economy create preconditions for the rapid development of our country, thereby raising the standard of living for our citizens. I will give an example from the middle I come from, from the Municipality of Stara Pazova, which has a long tradition of entrepreneurship and where many companies have built their new facilities and opened new jobs, and the need to open and school new profiles in secondary vocational education to meet labour market needs. The accelerated development of Serbia is forcing the school system to be more efficient, better quality, well-planned, and aimed at Serbia's overall development. For the very reasons set out above, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The bill, which adds item 3 -- the planning documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the development of the school system. Investment in education and the development of the school system is the most profitable investment for the development and future of every society, so let me ultimately express only the words of praise for the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that is making to reform the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33389	National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33390	Thank you, Your Honor. Like all my amendments, and the amendment to Article 4, which defines the concept and types of planning documents, where it says that the types of planning documents are developmental planning documents, public policy documents and other planning documents, the amendment refers to sustainable development. So, in my proposal for an amendment to the planning documents, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is being achieved with a particular reference to improving sustainable development. Why am I suggesting this? I suggest that it does not happen to us, as one of the previous speakers did in time, for the reasons known to him, campaigned in the Republic of Serbia and brought a declaration to cities and municipalities where the focus was given to ban the cultivation and traffic of GMOs. As far as I know in the state of Serbia, the law is still in force and the law defines these very things and says in that law that there is still a ban on cultivation and transport of GMO products in Serbia. Also, I would mention here what has been said all these days, how we don't invest in development, is primarily meant by domestic investors. I'll mention the Development Fund here. Those who do not know have a nice RS Development Fund on the site, to read that there are several ways in which we help, primarily start-up loans, i.e. this government and the state of Serbia, new production capacities, new entrepreneurs, and for those old investment loans that are up to 120 million dinars with a grace period and 30% free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33391	Thank you. The National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miloevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33392	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honored Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 4. I propose that the draft law be added to Article 3 which reads - the planned documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. This amendment establishes and defines the improvement of the private sector as one of the principles on which the planning documents will be based, as it is precisely the development of the private sector that leads to the further development of all areas of social life and the growth of our citizens' standards. The various types of assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government in 2017 alone increased the number of people employed in Arangelovac by 200 people and these are clear results of policy and economic growth. More than 20m euros for four years, Arangelovac received through various projects and subsidies from the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's how much money our municipality hasn't received in decades. Also, much of the state's subsidies went to encourage the employment and development of the private sector, both large companies with hundreds of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. Through all of the above, in my address, I wanted to highlight the importance of co-operation between local and state authorities, the importance of internal co-operation and local authorities and businessmen, including as many responsible people as possible to address issues of social importance. That is the only way we can achieve better results in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33393	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? My friend Milojic, you have 19 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33394	I'm sorry I only have 19 seconds, so I can't answer the previous speaker what the SNS ruined in Arangelovac. If there is a synonym, next to the Kings, for the arrogant unprofessional government, the local government of the SNS, it's just power in the Arangelovac. Look how many signatures are citizens... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33395	I can tell you, fellow Milojicic, that despite having 19 seconds, you are one of the MPs who set a record in the Assembly that so many lies tell in such a short time. I congratulate you on that. First, it has nothing to do with the amendment of counterpart Katarina Rakic. I let you go. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Now you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33396	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising Article 108. Explain to me who you are in this situation to assess whether the MP, any of them, told the truth or not? How can you claim that these facts that I have brought about the leadership of the SNS in both the King and the Arangelovac and the Subotics are incorrect? Are you perhaps an investigative judge?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33397	Comrade, I'll answer you right now. I'm not the investigative judge, I'm not the prosecutor, I'm not the all-knowing and all-powerful. Judge all of us are citizens. They said what they thought about both fellow Milojevic and SNS in Arangelovac. They said what they thought of you. And, please, don't go into the assembly again so you can start a debate and argue with the MPs here. You didn't say anything about the amendment. I don't mind, you keep going like that, but ask yourself... (Radoslav Milojic: Do not interpret whether something is true or not. I'd rather tell you than tell you all the things you've said. (Radoslav Milojic: give me five each time.) I'm asking the Assembly to come forward. ) The Assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure to Article 108. Now, first right to the replica, fellow Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33398	Thank you. We've heard, as you said, a lot of the lies that the previous speaker made. I have done all that I have said, both for the amendment and for the co-operation of local self-government with the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been proven. We only received more than 11.5m euros from the government of the Republic of Serbia through a 21km-long Krcjevac-Kruševica road. The previous day, Minister Stefanovic also noted the state's attitude towards privates over subsidies. For example, Bekament also received subsidies from the government of the Republic of Serbia for the employment of its workers, where we evened out the relationship between foreign investors and domestics. A large series of projects that we have applied as local self-government have passed in competitions. Maybe it's not the right number of 20m euros, maybe even more, when we add up the projects we're going to be doing in 2018. The previous speaker is his results, and his party showed its results in previous elections that took place a month ago and managed to win, a whole coalition of only 2.25%, while the SNS won the two-thirds power. There, and these are indicators of how much citizens of the municipality of Arangelovci are grateful to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and have shown in these current elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33399	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33400	Thank you very much. Yes, it seems that way, ladies and gentlemen, when internal elections are held somewhere. In particular, this is where you think of the yellow company. Since they can't agree after that series of resignations, who's going to be there, and they're going for positions on the system, give this to our big nothing, so let's see what we're going to do with it, then this way they use the symbolic 15-seconds to be as loud and noisy as possible. And of course, I can't help but mention the Serbian Progressive Party. You're absolutely right. So, it's a tragic excuse, and when someone comes here and mentions colleagues who are talking about our amendments today, and a fellow Milojevic who talked about his town, and a colleague, Krivokapic, who spoke about helping undeveloped municipalities, because it's a pure excuse, a pure excuse that someone might forget, although it's certainly impossible, that when we talk about undeveloped municipalities, the one who gave himself the right to be awfully loud, who is now taking hands and feet to be the new sheriff of the yellow company, he is the most responsible that Smederevska Palanka is in charge of, watch out now, four billion dinars. So it's such a devastation of your own environment, it's such an experience of people who have entrusted you with taking care of their homes and their lives, that there is no worse example in Serbia today. A man who, there rightly, is a colleague Risticevic, has already shown that the only luxury talent he owns – a talent for spending, a man who for one night, ladies and gentlemen, drank an entire tank, so those hundreds of bottles of ‘heineken’, when everything is converted into dollars is about as much as they sold one tank during the time when the then director of the yellow company, now some man in the resignations, has stored everything he was entrusted with ageing only in the country's defence system. As much as anyone did right or wrong, the citizens say. And in that Aradelite which you mentioned, and in the Subotic which you mentioned, and in the Smederian Palanca. In Smederjevska Palanca, they say – 67%. So, not an absolute but a two-thirds majority believes that Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party are doing everything possible to make them better. And as those who are vowels are quoted from time to time, let them check. These 2.5% were in Belgrade. Whether in Serbia they can get one vote more than in Belgrade, I'm not sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33401	National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vlado Babic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Granny, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33402	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 4. The bill adds item 3, which reads: "Plan documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of medical centres." This amendment defines the purpose of the planning documents. The plans and strategy for developing health care of the Republic of Serbia is a professional and political document aimed at the development of the health system, in line with the overall development of society. This document defines the basic objectives and directions of health care development and is the result of an expertly guided consultation process. The plan is an instrument for the development of a health care system and for changes to mark the next period, in terms of improving and establishing a balance between efficiency and efficiency and quality and safety of health care at all levels of the system, respecting the circumstances related to social movements, demographic changes, the level of education and cultural achievements of the population, as well as its health status. A very important demographic and also an indicator of socio-economic conditions and the functioning of a country's health services is the mortality of children until the first year of life. In the Republic of Serbia, infant mortality has been reduced from 11.6 per cent to 6.1 per cent to thousands of live births, which is still above the EU-based values, where it is at 4.6 per cent. The health status of the population was affected by ageing populations and negative socio-economic movements, with a fall line that remained until 2012. The health potential of the nation has been exhausted, but with all the difficulties that the transition of state and society brings, it cannot be expected to quickly stop negative health indicators and their desired improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33403	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33404	Dear Chairman, Minister Djordjevic with his associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I want this amendment to recognise economic growth and development as one of the most important issues for our country as part of the planning documents. It is necessary that the system law, under which politics would be harmonised, be within the framework of the economic objectives outlined that include fiscal consolidation, a stable course, as well as economic growth. Reform laws are the real momentum of our economy that will allow us to solve all system failures and edit them in the most efficient way. Successful state administration and local self-government are the foundation of well-organised states. It's not enough just to carry out republican politics successfully. The full effect is achieved only when all levels of government work in the same interest in an efficient and co-existent way. An example of a successful local self-government is exactly the community I come from, which is the municipality of Rakovica. It has to catch up with more developed urban municipalities because of its years of neglect. With large works on infrastructure, August, sewerage, but also the water network, the municipal government rightly responds to the demands of its citizens who want decent and dignified living conditions. With numerous programs for citizens of all ages, my municipality puts all its resources at the service of citizens. I would like to point out that with the recent modernisation of the railway section, as well as the adjustment of the existing platform, the conditions have been met that since the recent BG train traffic from Resnik. We know how important the BG train is for urban traffic. It's the fastest kind of transport that connects different parts of the city. The restoration of this stock represents the first serious reconstruction of the railroad in 30 years. (President: Bringing the end. ) The entire investment is worth around 24m euros and tells how important every citizen in any part of town is to the republic, city, municipal government. As part of this investment, it's been made... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33405	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savkich, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33406	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members of Parliament, I have proposed an amendment in Article 4. The proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system and paragraph 3 is added, which reads: "Plan documents bring about a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions." Article 4 of this proposal is a clear definition of the concept and types of planning documents and are divided into three categories – development planning documents, public policy documents and other planning documents. The established framework, a series of planning documents, is achieving a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia in order to establish an effective planning system and a stimulating framework at all levels of government, including judicial authorities. A team of Justice Department experts is working to prepare a proposal to improve the information system in courts, improve information exchange and labour efficiency. This contributes to the unification of the case-law that is achieved through co-operation with other judicial institutions. The principle of efficiency would thus further confirm and oblige the services involved in the adoption of draft documents in judicial bodies to increase overall efficiency. All these measures are part of a successful reform conducted by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which the citizens in the recent local elections recognized and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33407	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radmilo Kostic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33408	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, that the health care institution can successfully operate and achieve exceptional results, and that it is state-run, tells an example of the Special Hospital for Rehabilitation in Banja Koviljaca. In a beautiful environment, surrounded by a calming nature, a natural spa with a 160-year tradition is a unique combination of tradition and modern technologies. Modern rehabilitation treatment is conducted in combination with natural medicinal products of sulphuric water and mud, and under the supervision of extremely professional and friendly staff. The facility receives 17,000 patients from the country and abroad annually and generates an annual income of around 5m euros. A co-operation agreement has been signed with both Republika Srpska and Tuzlani Canton. As a symbol of this natural spa, the former Court Hall castle was recently handed over to the use of a special hospital, and now it is in the stage of reconstruction and the return of the glow to this magnificent building. The bathroom of King Peter and Karadjordjevic was renovated last year. In a special hospital, the use of autologous serum in the treatment of painful conditions in joint arthrosis, dysaheria, radiculopathy, tendon injury is also performed. As a leader in setting new standards in the competitiveness of the Southeast European tourism market through organisational and operational excellence, continuous innovation and investment, the diversity of content and service of the highest quality in the field of medical and wellness tourism, a special hospital won the Golden Tourism Heart of the Mediterranean of Southeast Europe at the 7th Business Conference in October last year. The power of the waterfall is in many drops that work together with the maximum of this facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33409	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. You have no right on any basis. (Mihailo Jokic: By amendment. There is no more time for your parliamentary group. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of richinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33410	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted this amendment, as well as the previous three amendments, to the Law on Planning of the Republic of Serbia in order to improve the text of the law itself. The town of Leskovac is becoming a centre of southern Serbia in overall economic, economic, sociological and cultural development thanks to good planning. Culture has taken a significant place on the list of priorities and great efforts are being made to make the offer of cultural events rich, to satisfy different tastes and to present to top-notch content and artists. The International Film Director's Festival "LIFFE", the Leskovac Days of Music, the Balkan Youth Strip of Authors, the former Yugoslavia's Photo Summit and other events bring together a number of prominent artists from Serbia and abroad. Our city was successfully presented to the general public through the Project "The Golden Age of Leskovec" within which the same name was realized, published monograph and recorded documentary film. A treat for painting fans were the graphics exhibitions of Pablo Picasso and Salvador Dali, while classical music lovers were able to enjoy performances by top artists, such as Stefan Milenkovic, Vladimir Milosevic and others. In addition to enriching the city's cultural offer, large funds have been invested in the reconstruction of almost all cultural institutions, National Theatre, History Archive, Library and Houses of Culture. The town of Leskovac did not ignore even religious heritage. The true treasure of Orthodox Yashinski moasteri, 500 years old, hidden on the slopes of Babička Gora, after decades of collapse, experienced a major restoration and a new interest. For reconstruction of the monastery complex, 14 million dinars were allocated. The temple of St. Sava was built in the village of Dubočica in Leskovec... (President: Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... An investment worth 19 million dinars. While she's in the process of the parish house façade, she's being invested by 1.8 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33411	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33412	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens, the good news we have received from the IMF, which is to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and accelerate economic growth. They pointed out that the results were impressive and that they exceeded all expectations. Serbia today is on much tighter ground than several years ago, that the macroeconomic situation is stable, the economy is growing, and the inflation rate is low and stable. According to the World Economic Forum report, the Global Competitiveness Index 2017/2018 Serbia has progressed 12 positions and is in 78 of the 138 countries. The improvements were registered at eight of the 11 indicators, with the largest shift in the macroeconomic environment for 31 seats. These achievements have enabled us to invest money today in infrastructure, further development and creating conditions for solving decades of problems. In the opinion of experts, we have achieved these results faster than expected, of course we have worked more and faster because we all care about the economy as soon as possible to the degree of development that affects the everyday lives of citizens. In this regard, there will be a significant increase in pensions this year. We are grateful to the pensioners for their contributions to the country's recovery, and we are especially grateful to them for showing us young people how much they love and respect Serbia and what it means to be a responsible member of society and to be responsible for the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33413	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Žarić Kovacevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33414	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment, I would like to point out the importance of passing such a law. The amendments are there to change something in the proposal or simply to point out some of the things in practice in the specific area. On the one hand, we had inefficient and unrealistic planning by the authorities of the state administration, planning that is not in line with the budget, inadequate mechanisms for harmonising the planning documents, inefficient publication of the planning documents, poor coordination of the authorities of the state administration. All this leads to inefficient and non-transparent policy management. On the other hand, the public policy management process is closely linked to the legislative process because the regulations are an instrument for public policy implementation. The adoption of this law will also have an impact on the transparency of the legislative process. But what's most important is the effects that law enforcement will have on citizens. Effects are expected in terms of a more efficient and efficient implementation of economic and social policies that will help improve the quality of public services, living standards and meet the needs of citizens. It is also very important to increase transparency in the management of public policies and the legislative process, which will make it easier for citizens to use public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33415	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33416	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this law because I believe that the planning documents that achieve the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the development of the health system would further define the purpose of the planning documents. We have shown in the previous period that good co-operation is needed both local self-government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the President of the Republic. That we are on a good path also show the constant investment of foreign investors in our country, thus recovering the health system through recovery of the economy. On this occasion, I would like to boast that today in the town, in the old Serbian capital, Krusevec, where I come from, investors who have already invested, means "Henkel" Serbia is opening a new plant, a new factory "Somat" and that our prime minister is with local self-government leaders today. I can say that the citizens of Kruševec are pleased, both with the work of this government and with the work of our President of the Republic, who is responsible for the home business and responsible management of this country succeeds in bringing us back and representing us in the world. In this way, the state of Serbia is now appreciated, not as it was during the Dossmanian regime, which has devastated not only our Serbia, but all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33417	The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague of David's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33418	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the draft law on the planning system in order to standardise types of planning documents are prescribed three types of planning documents, including development planning documents, including development plan, investment plan and spatial plan and plans for the development of units of local self-government, then, we have documents of public policies, covering strategies, programmes, policy concepts and action plan, and we have other planning documents, such as government programme, exposé, government action plan, annual government work plan and national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows. The draft law regulates the hierarchy of planning documents at the republican, regional and local level, the mutual coherence of public policies and the harmonisation of planning documents in form, content and terminology is prescribed. Also, compliance of the planning documents with the international commitments taken, as well as compliance with the rules with the adopted planning documents, is being carried out. The adoption of this bill will create a single system of planning at national, regional and local level based on the compliance of hierarchical lowers with hierarchical higher planning documents, but the necessary link between the plans for the development of units of local self-government with the province's or development planning documents at the level of the Republic of Serbia, which set out the long-term and priority objectives of the development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33419	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Members of the Ognjanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33420	Thank you. Respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, the document is a key document setting out the goals set for attracting domestic and foreign investors, all in order to economically develop Serbia and raise citizens' living standards. Yesterday, in my presentation, I mentioned that Serbia is a participant in the "One Belt – One Way" project, and that policy orientation gives Serbia the opportunity to expect new investments and improve economic co-operation with China. Investors from China have expressed interest in about 60 state-owned companies in Serbia. Good governance of public policy systems includes planning, formulating and adoption of public documents, then implementation, monitoring and evaluation. As we are talking about the planning documents, I would like to point out the plan for the development of the Municipality of Grock, from which I come, which included a series of projects for the development of the municipality, which, in the past few years with the support of our government, has seen accelerated growth and development, because the fact that Grocka was indeed one of the most abandoned municipalities of Belgrade, and there was no economic segment on which there was no need to invest with careful planning. Now most of the projects listed in the Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Municipality have been implemented and are at some stage of realization. Key projects are related to the development of infrastructure, urban planning, recovery plans that stabilise the icefield zones, the construction of a water and sewerage network, the revitalisation of agricultural capacity for the processing of fruits and vegetables, the construction of the coastal areas, and I wanted to show that, with great effort and work and long-term planning, the development and progress leading to financial stability can be achieved, which is why the citizens of Grocka in the city elections gave their trust to the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33421	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33422	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Djordjevic and his associates, fellow MPs, have so far heard a lot of the advantages that this law makes, but we have not looked back on the particular problem so far with the users of the budget that they planned first, and only then did they take care of the resources, which was completely reversed by some healthy logic. This was inherited from the previous period and therefore this government, among other things, passed a bill that should put things in place, i.e. to play by the clear rules of the game. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The bill, which adds item 3, which reads -- the planning documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to economic indicators. This is precisely because Serbia's public debt fell at a high rate of 74.7 GDP in 2015, below 63.6 at the end of 2017, and is now below 60%. Fitch raised a credit rating from B minus to BB for two reasons. One is the success of the government's austerity measures, and the other is the recent appreciation of the dinars. Debt declines reduce the risk of the financial crisis and continue a stable economic growth in investment, which affects the reduction of unemployment and better standards for our citizens. Serbia was praised for resolving the budget deficit, curbing inflation and improving labour market conditions. Economic reforms continue to deliver results, especially in the area of macroeconomic stability of our country. That is why I believe that the inclusion of this amendment puts an accent on an important concept, which is the economic indicators of our country's growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33423	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33424	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, planning implies and planning in education and education, and first of all planning to develop the moral traits of students is the first-class task of teachers. If Dr. Djordje Vukadinovic had developed a proper relationship with the truth, he would not deny what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia see, and see that the time in our country for the past 20 years can be measured according to the SNS and its president. The first period of this development is before the SNS came to power, which is the time of the government of the former regime, in which the country was economically, infrastructureally, industrially devastated, the time when the country was demonized, with too much responsibility, with robbery privatisation and with too much unemployment. The second period, with the arrival of SNS and Alexander Vukic in 2014 to power, is the time of accelerated modernisation and construction of our country, the time in which it is built and worked, a time with reduced unemployment, with reduced country's debt, time with road construction and highways, schools and health homes. That is why this amendment is very important for the development of human traits, primarily in love with the truth, so that various analytical charlatans, such as Djordje Vukadinovic, called Vlah, who does not have that feeling, do not deny what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia see.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33425	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't have to worry too much if we carefully and patiently plan ahead. The economic power of a country will soon not be measured by the amount of gold and diamonds that the country has, but by the amount of food and drinking water that the country produces or can produce, it planned to produce in the next period. At 3,200,000 hectares, as currently being processed, and on land not currently being processed, Serbia must plan carefully on its agricultural production and resolve the agricultural policy led by the former regime's party and which was exclusively in favour of large agricultural holdings. Even the EU says in its turn from 2013 to 2020 that it will no longer only support large ones, that to a greater extent they will support small agricultural holdings and that this is a perspective in new employment and that the activity I agree with is called – we will not support millionaires, but millions. So in the future, we should support not only large agricultural holdings, but we must support small agricultural holdings, which through specialization can be economically efficient, because at one hectare of greenhouses and plastics can produce significant agricultural production. Also, at one hectare of modern fruit plant that costs about 20,000 to 30,000 euros each year, one agricultural landlady can provide income for herself and her 30,000-euro family per hectare. If we locate fruit and vegetables as close as possible to the place of production, we will find bread for both father in the field and son in the processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33427	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33428	Thank you. Respected MPs, Mr. Minister, the planning documents brought together on a realistic basis, based on the implementation of public policies with a precise assessment of the financial resources for their implementation in the integrated plan system of the Republic of Serbia will contribute to the development of the Republic of Serbia and will improve the work of local self-government. Improving the work of local self-government is not an easy task at all, especially when you take responsibility over them from the local leaders of the previous regime that they were seized for personal gain. The results of their 16-year-old rule in Novi Knezevic are more than devastating. The planning documents they were bringing were of a formal nature, with no accompanying documentation, no financial support and no means provided. For two years, the management of the Municipality of Novi Knezevic, supported by the Government of Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has drawn up and harmonised project-technical documentation for the implementation of the plans of the municipality of Novi Knezevic, which is now being brought into interest and in agreement with the citizens of the municipality. New Prince, Choka and Kanjiž today in major construction sites. What is important is to say, it is investing in rural local communities that were forgotten by 2016, where the leaders of the previous regime only set out during election campaigns. The law on the Republic of Serbia's planning system introduces rules of conduct for all participants, introduces a single information system to monitor whether the planning documentation is implemented, which is the most important. Finally, I call on all MPs to support this legislative proposal in the voting day, as well as any other law aimed at the overall development of our country, which, unlike the former presidents, is led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33429	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33430	I will talk about the problem facing more than 100 families in Belgrade, of which 57 refugee families have been expelled from today's Croatia, the Federation of BiH and Kosovo and Metohija, as they are being denied the right to buy apartments in which they live more than 20 and some families for more than 25 years under favourable conditions. These families live in several locations in the Belgrade area. Most of them are on the street. Pere Todorovic No. 1 and No. 2, in Royal Street, but there are several apartments in other locations, as is the street. The Grimm Brothers, Street. Stevan Mussic, etc. What's the key to these families? During the unfortunate war of the 1990s, these families concluded with the then diplomatic and housing company of the lease agreement in the former period of more than 20 or more than 25 years paid more than tens of thousands of euros for rent in those apartments. Also, they invested significant funds to maintain the building itself, installations, devices, lightning. They have also invested significant funds for the very dwellings that are in a very wasteful state. I repeat, their basic request and appeal to the state is to allow them the right to buy under favourable conditions, to take into account the fact that they have already paid tens of thousands of euros to rent and maintain buildings and apartments themselves. In the previous period, the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate allegedly gave the right to ransom, but these were very unfavourable conditions because these families were even with all other families. (President: Bringing the end. ) We think it was an injustice to these families and I appeal to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic to sit down, to talk, to find a solution and to those, over 100 families I repeat... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33431	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33432	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers Djordjevic, with all his associates, respected Serbian citizens, planned documents, a participant in the planning system for setting public policy goals and priorities, assuming that one of the most important goals of public policy creation would increase the efficiency of different levels, in order to contribute to the country's development, I found it appropriate to add a provision in the bill that would probably give local self-government the most important level of state administration an adequate place in the legislative proposal. A system which recognises the direct link between local self-government and the entire state structure and which determines the principles of accountability and transparency at local level, which directly affect the development of the entire state. What do we get by adopting a bill like this? We are taking another step in transforming the state into a citizen service, achieving greater efficiency in the work of civil servants, leading to cheaper state and its apparatus. Serbian citizens deserve public administration with officials who are nicer, more professional, more efficient, more able to implement new laws without problems. If the legislator has not recognised the local self-government in this member of the law, its impact on the functioning of the state, state administration and state at all is evident. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this law and my amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33433	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33434	Thank you, Chairman. To Article 4. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the Serbian plan system aimed at reviewing the effects of planning documents with a view to state administration. The low level of implementation of the plans has a significant impact on the lack of an effective system for priority in the work of the government's authorities, except to the extent that this allows the Action Plan to implement the measures of the Government of Serbia. The document sets out objectives, sets public policy priorities, or plans measures and activities to implement them within their respective competences, and by participants in the planning system. The Serbian Progressive Party has since taken over Belgrade's lead with a responsible policy and planning to develop a metropolis with other levels of government, primarily the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also with respect to the demands and needs of its city municipalities, has begun to implement a programme for the development of a transport and construction system of bridges to unload up to the only transit bridge in Belgrade, which is the Gazela Bridge. The city's SNS government, led by Belgrade Mayor Sinisa Mali and city manager Goran Vesic, successfully finished Pupin's bridge and connected Zemun and Borc with the Pančeva Bridge and the city centre. The documentation is being prepared to build another bridge on the Danube near Ada Huja for a length of 3 km to connect Pančevački and Slanački path. A bridge is being built on the Sava on the South Adriatic Corridor between Surcin and Baric, as well as the route of the Obrenovac-Surcin-New Belgrade road. The other side of the Ostružni Bridge ends on a bypass around Belgrade. The second strip on the Dobanovci-Obsernica bypass has been completed. (President: Bring the end. ) After 70 years, this city government is one step away from the realization of a two-mile long tunnel beneath the Terrace that is to connect Savamala and Dorcool and the plan is to expand...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33435	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33436	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, planning documentation is important for the functioning of anything to do. I come from Smederevska Palanka. I have to say that what was done in some previous period, in the period until 2006, 2007 and there's such a planical documentation, but there's still a lot to be done there. Smederjevska Palanka was found in a very difficult situation, Mr Orlic, four budgets in this term of office and two mandates while DOS was in the period 2000 to 2004. Every day, the government helps, and it would have been hard to survive the Smederjevska Palanka if it hadn't helped you. What is important and what I was talking about earlier is bringing in investments, whether they are foreign or domestic, but certainly the employment of people on that ground, there is planning documentation for this, especially, I said, along the regional road Palanka-Mladenovac there are certain working areas and there is an easy way to proceed with procedures and to bring investors. I hope the government recognizes that and that what's most important for Smederevska Palanka, does, brings one of the investors and employs people who are unemployed and now work in other places in the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33437	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33438	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, given that we are at the very end of the debate on amendments to the proposed law. I would just like to underline that the objective of my amendments was to highlight the need for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall economic development. I think my amendments supported what is the intensity of this law and that they are completely complementary, I would say, with the objectives of this law, which I was already talking about in the discussions. I cited positive examples from Vrachar Town Hall as good examples of a local self-government. I'm glad my colleagues pointed out positive examples in their local self-government. I point out all of this because it's important for us from the SNS, and this is our strategic commitment, to make local self-government a real citizen service. The municipality must become a real service of citizens, i.e. in the right sense of that word, that is, the place where the citizen comes and meets his needs as soon as possible in accordance with the law. It's, I repeat, our strategic definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33439	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Radičević's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33440	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia, which adds attitude 3, reads: "Plan documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to industrialisation." Article 4 provides for the concepts and types of planning documents. The objective of my amendment to Article 4. The bill of law is to be further defined and the law itself to be more precise. Given that the planning documents can be developmental, public policy documents and other planning documents, I would refer to the development planning documents, especially the development plan of the local self-government unit. These plans are made for a longer period of time and need to have continuity. Of course, these plans are subject to change, but only based on detailed analysis that needs to be carried out, and not based on the will of individuals. The plans for the development of local self-government units need to identify the priority development objectives to be achieved. In my humble opinion, industrialization is one of the most important goals that a local self-government unit should have. Only by producing and selling industrial products can we achieve a stable economic development of all parts of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33441	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33442	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today when international agencies dealing with credit rating say we are creditworthy, that means we have achieved fantastic results, that we have good fiscal results, that we have price stability, that we have reduced external imbalances, that we have strengthened the banking sector and that we have an extremely favourable outlook for both economic growth and economic development. There used to be so much bureaucracy and administration in the public sector that unfavourable loans were taken at an interest rate of 8.9. 10% at the annual level for the payout of earnings and bureaucracy and administration and for the service of public debt. Today and when we take credits, we take them for development goals, they're development loans, extremely favourable. We're building infrastructure today. Here, for example, in the second half of 2018, the construction of the E80 highway will begin, that is the Nis-Pristina highway, and in the second half of 2018, note, the construction of the first section of the Nis-Pločnik highway, and the value of the project is 212m euros. Not only will this mean, after construction, the business of reducing the price of transport services, but it will also mean the construction of the highway itself. Many construction firms will be involved in building the highway itself, it will employ many workers. Imagine how many workers will be engaged in the construction of the highway itself. It is the responsible policy of our government, investment in all parts of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33443	Thank you, colleague Charapic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kostic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33444	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I wanted to point out that increased investment in Serbia's development is necessary in all areas of social life. If it hadn't been for the past few years since the SNS took responsibility to lead our Serbia to a better tomorrow, today we advancers wouldn't have anything to brag about, which we do with pride, because we invest our own resources. In the local government of Sokobanja, it is investing in building the largest and most modern summer stage in the Balkans. This way, I thank the tourism ministry that has allocated 65m dinars for this investment and recognised Sokobanja as a very promising tourist destination for Serbia. This investment includes local self-government with 55 million dinars. The co-creation today can also be praised for having the largest number of registered facilities to provide services via vouchers, and that is even 229, all thanks to the Serbian government's policy that we are leading. The tourist organization Sokobanja is the winner of the prestigious tourism award, "Tourist Flower" for 2017, which once again confirms that Sokobanja puts tourism first. By listening to my colleagues, I can see that other spas are being invested in Serbia, all in order to improve Banjska tourism and raise the standard of living for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33445	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33446	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 4, we define the planning documents that define this law. Plans, i.e. types of planning documents, are primarily development planning, public policy document and other planning documents. When you look at all these planning documents, then they clearly serve the growth and development of Serbian, both economics and Serbian society. Public policy in the area of the economy requires respect for the principles and rules of theory that have been in force for hundreds of years, but in addition to the economic principles and rules that exist it is necessary to respect and respect good economic practices both in Serbia and in other countries. Serbia had this accident to be part of a system for over 40 years where you had no economic freedom, and when you have no economic freedom, then you can't have any relevant and effective functioning plans. In 2015, when we adopted a fiscal consolidation plan and fiscal consolidation certainly is a public policy, these fiscal consolidations were based on plans on completely different assumptions than those we have today. When you look at today's macroeconomic parameters in Serbia and other economic parameters, then the growth and development of the Serbian economy, and hence the Serbian society, is the basis for this. If you have an inflation rate of 1.4% for the first three months and the EU inflation rate is 1.5%, the inflation rate in Serbia is the same as in the EU, then it is a good basis for planning macroeconomic stability. If your deficit is zero, i.e. if you have a 1.2% surplus in 2017 and this trend continues in the first three months of 2018, then we can rightly say that the plans made in the area of the economy are growth and development and hope for Serbia's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33447	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33448	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law adding item 3 aimed at reducing social differences. It should be noted that the plan system of the Republic of Serbia was in disaster at all levels, at republican, urban and local levels by 2012. That's why there was no investment. Since 2012, the arrival of the SNS has changed business environment and so today we have 60 companies investing in the Republic of Serbia, we have hired more than 170,000 people, but what is very important to point out is that the government is in negotiations with the new 30 companies where another 27,000 people should be employed in the coming period. That's how the responsible government works. What I would point out is that I come from the municipality of Vozdovac and I have to point out that a good example of practice, every September 1st when students go to school, that they give their students ranches and pillows. This is a good example of practice because it helps parents and not only that, 800 students who are students of the generation or werewolves receive tablets of computers and books every year, professional books. That's how the responsible government works. What I would like to point out is that the municipality of Voždovac brought in over 400 documents in 2014 to 2018, opinions and all for the work of social policy prosperity. I'll just read some of them to see how good government does it in the Vozdovac municipality. First of all, the conclusion on support for the project's application, the modernisation of healthcare on Vozdovac. Then the decision to finance the needs and interests of young people in the territory of the municipality of Voždovac. Also, the establishment of a humanitarian fund in the municipality of Voždovac, a decision to reward students from the Voždovac municipality budget, a decision to finance activities in the field of education and education from the Voždovac municipality budget and so on. This is how the responsible local government, the republican government, works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33449	Thank you, colleague Malusic. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break of one hour. With the work we continue at 15.00 hours, the debate in particular on the amendment to Article 4 submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pesic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33451	Thank you. Dear Mr Arsic, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, and this 4th amendment is heading towards connecting the affirmation of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with this law. The law defines the obligation to have several types of planning documents that will certainly speed up the development of the Republic of Serbia, but which will lead to the achievement of social equality. Also, this law defines the inclusion of the economy and the civil sector in the process of adopting planning documents, but also the introduction of a single information system, all of which will lead to the accelerated development of the Republic of Serbia, and thus to the achievement of social equality. This little time left for me to use to highlight my city from which I come, the town of Leskovac as an example of good practice and related to the topic of this law or the topic of the planning system. When the SNS took responsibility for managing the city in Leskovac, only one third of the city's territory was covered by plan documents. Today, the town of Leskovac has adopted all the necessary planning documents and as a result we have accelerated construction. It is only one of the criteria based on which the National Alliance for Local and Economic Development has certified the town of Leskovac as one of the cities with a favourable business environment. My amendment goes that way, so towards the development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33452	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? Come in, fellow Jevtić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33453	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I submit an amendment to Article 4 of the proposed legislative solution on the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia in the light of the addition of Article 3 which defines both the concept and types of planning documents and the affirmatives of the equal development of the Republic of Serbia. The balanced development of the Republic of Serbia is one, perhaps the most important part of the foundation on which the government of the Republic of Serbia plans to build a well-organised, rationally manageable, transparent and highly efficient system of governance in all areas of social life. The very idea of a balanced development of the whole country is, in itself, highly realistic, but certainly a good guide in terms of drawing up planning documents, synchronising parallel planning documents with respect to hierarchy at all levels of state administration. I mean, and I mentioned this through the explanation of previous amendments that the main problem of current uneven development is the lack of compliance of planning documents in the hierarchical sense. There is a problem in synchronising plans between small and underdeveloped local self-government and higher levels of state administration. This problem is mainly caused by a large series of problems that are practically seen at insufficient speed and insufficient efficiency of the management system. When this is added to the shortcomings of the instruments that produce the planning documents, we come up with consequences, and the main and most noticeable consequence is the unbalanced development of the entire country in all areas of social life. That is why, I think that we should insist on all the improved definitions and concepts of proposed legal solutions in terms of precision and affirmation of uniform development, which is the purpose of the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33454	Thank you. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Petrovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33455	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for a law to be added to Section 3 and which reads - the planned documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to tax liability. The objective of the amendment is to further define the purpose of the planning documents. Development planning documents are key to establishing the consistency of the planning system. In fact, the bill regulates the hierarchy of planning documents at republican, regional and local levels. It introduces into the planning system the development planning document, standardises types of planning documents. The principle of consistency and consistency provided for in the draft law prescribes mutual coherence between public policies, the harmonisation of design documents in form, content and terminology. It also achieves compliance of hierarchicalally lower planning documents with hierarchical higher planning documents, compliance of the planning documents with international commitments and compliance with the rules with the adopted planning documents. The law therefore establishes the necessary hierarchy and links between the development plan, as a roof development document at the level of the Republic of Serbia and other hierarchical lower development planning documents. The alignment of the planning documents on the hierarchical scale shows seriousness in the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resorship Ministry and the relevant institutions of the system, to regulate all areas of functioning of the system that certainly affect the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33456	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here is my colleague, Pekarski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33457	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system and proposed to add the 4th position -- the planning documents bring together the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on capacity utilisation. This amendment defines the purpose of the planning documents. Through a discussion of these amendments these days, we've been paying attention to the subject matter that deals with this law, we've been discussing expressions, and we've also been paying attention to principles. I found it particularly interesting to have the principle of coordination and co-operation and the principle of responsibility. Minister Djordjevic showed us on a plastic case how the state is implementing public policies, respecting its interests and harmonising them simultaneously with local unit priorities and interests. This was shown in plastic terms in the case of the town of Nis when the state from one of its resources, from the Ministry of Defence, transferred part of its capacities to the Ministry of Education, i.e. when the Army of the Republic of Serbia gives part of the barracks "Philip Kljajic" to the town of Nis for the needs of the university and so the state, in fact creating these new qualifications for the future, did not only contribute to the town of Nis and the youth town of Nis, but also contribute to its human and its structures. So in voting day, we're gonna support this bill and thank you all for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33458	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33459	This amendment that I have submitted to Article 4. The law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the previous one, refers to adding a term - Eurointegration. Article 4 defines the concepts and types of planning documents and these are development planning documents, public policy documents and other planning documents. Serbia as a candidate country for EU membership, in the phase of harmonising its legislation with EU law, and I think that in such an important law governing the management of public policy systems, as well as medium-term planning, it is necessary to further highlight the importance of the Eurointegration process for our country's development in all areas. I would stress the importance of the support we receive from EU funds in the form of grants, but also that Serbia has managed to use 94% of these funds by investing in concrete projects, such as infrastructure, hospitals, schools, support for small and medium-sized enterprises. All this directly affects the improvement of our citizens' standards. Also, we have reduced unemployment, among other things thanks to foreign direct investment, two-thirds of which originate from EU member states. The European Commission's latest progress report on Serbia covered everything we've done so far, related to internal reforms, economic reforms, the rule of law, regional co-operation. It has been noted that there is no setback in any area, which means that we are successfully solving problems that have gone back years, if not for decades, accumulated and I hope that I have presented enough arguments to accept the amendments that I have proposed under Article 4 of the bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33460	National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Comrade Pantovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33461	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia will establish an efficient, transparent, coordinated and realistic planning system covering all key aspects of social and economic development policy and regional development. It is very important that the adoption of public policies is based on real indicators. It is necessary to monitor whether certain policies have yielded the desired results. Since my amendment refers to an increase in infrastructure capacity, surely in this field it can be clearly measured whether the plans led to the desired results. Around Serbia, highways are being built. Here, for example, on the Preljina-LJig section on Corridor 11, we see the most positive effects. The construction of this highway reduced the intensity of traffic at the Ibar Master's Office and thus increased traffic safety in the area. These results are expected on all the parts currently being built – Nis-Dimitrovgrad, highway to Presevo and reconstruction of existing local roads. This serious plan, when it comes to infrastructure projects, results are achieved in several fields, from the attractiveness of the area to facilitating the lives of citizens and to increasing traffic safety, where we also come to the rescue of human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33462	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33463	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, Amendments to Article 4. The draft law on the Serbian plan system defining the principles of public policy management, my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party and I are closer to defining the purpose of the planning documents. The Serbian Progressive Party with Aleksandar Vukic led by taking over power in our country has halted the overall collapse of the Republic of Serbia. A special aspect of the progress of the Republic of Serbia is increasing the world's reputation. Alexander Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, is certainly the most popular and important leader in the region today. As the SNS came to power, we opened up both east and west. The entire world's national playoffs in the last few years have come to our country, followed by investors from those same countries. An even greater number of countries, at the highest level, hosted the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. Today, Serbia and Serbia's leadership are appreciated both in Moscow and Washington, both in Beijing and Brussels, on all meridians. Serbia has become a reliable and respected partner. This is certainly the result of a balanced and responsible policy. This is the result of planning and political thinking. This is the result of effective work. All of these Serbian citizens recognize and evaluate daily, either in parliamentary, presidential or local elections throughout our country. If only we had fewer bad grades coming from political parties who were unhappy with the success of this government sending a bad signal to the world. However, I am quite certain that this is their vain business and that the prudence and arguments of policymaking by Alexander Vukic is sufficient to place it all in the place that belongs to them. Therefore the voice of the people, gentlemen, is incomparable, so we are obliged to continue in the same, winning direction, and that is – go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33464	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33465	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm right when, as far as this law is concerned, I insist on introducing Serbs in the region and really putting Serbs in the first place with the region, the best answer was yesterday's press conference in Pristina, Mrs Natalia Apostolova, the European Union Special Representative. For almost 40 minutes, Mrs. Apostolova was talking about the great progress of the so-called. The countries of Kosovo towards the European Union, along the way, the worst rating of the media situation in Serbia. It wouldn't be so terrible, these are the things we're used to, but young journalists, Serbs, who are RTK representatives, educated in Pristina in different ways, and without this constant co-operation and constant development and care for the region, they've been asking questions of a type, about, can quote correctly – when will Albanians return to northern Kosovo and why do they not live peacefully in Zubin Potok? These are questions that came from Serbian journalists. It is a tragedy for us to talk like that. When we talk about freedom of the media in Serbia, I am simply bound by the committee that I am leading, I can say that there are 2,034 registered media houses at this time, which is more than 250 than 2016, only in 2017. I can give you information on how many new radio stations, new independent media, new portals. However, it is this lack of co-operation, this constant concern and Serbia's development towards the region that data does not follow the real situation from the ground. And what I would add, and it's very important to me, is these empty benches that I'm looking at in front of me... (President: Bring the end of your colleague Krlić. )......................................................................................................... which represents the right move towards the opposition's dialogue. I think that finally our colleagues realized that when they opened... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33466	I thank my colleague Krlic. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33467	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing Article 4(3) that I have proposed, further defines the purpose of the planning documents, as an act setting public policy objectives for participants in the planning system. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the planned employment of health workers and the allocation of more than 5,000 specializations and sub-species, has leaned on investment in infrastructure and renewal of health institutions. One of the strategic goals in the field of health and reconstruction of the University Children's Clinic in Tirshovo, as well as the construction of a new hospital "Tirshove Two". The funds have been provided for a feasibility study, which is the first step in preparing for a new children's hospital. Sevenm euros have been invested for the reconstruction of the Tirshovo hospital, as well as for the purchase of state-of-the-art appliances, so this facility will operate according to world standards. At the same time, it is directed to specialisation in the field of paediatric and child surgery of over 100 young doctors, which is a guarantee of the future of this institution. The responsible and systemic staff policy of the Serbian government has been avoided the situation in which we have found ourselves before the reforms started that we lack professional and trained doctors. By enabling regular and quality professional training and adequate working conditions, including modern equipment, there are also conditions for new generations of doctors to contribute to the development of health care and thus to Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33468	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33469	I thank the chairman. Dear gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 4, defines the concept and the kind of planning documents. My amendment reads: "Article 4 The bill, paragraph 3 is added, which reads - Planish documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to improving health conditions." The plan document plans measures and activities to reach them. It is an act set by a participant in the planning system, setting public policy priorities. The planning documents should mention the development planning documents and the part relating to the investment plan, which requires a sound budget of the Ministry of Health for 2018 and amounts to 17 billion 380 million 99 000 and has been increased by five billion and 785 million 431 thousand dinars compared to 2017. I'll just mention some projects planned for 2018. In 2018, three major projects funded by the EU and managed by a delegation of the European Commission to the Republic of Serbia -- firstly, the development of an emergency medical services service in Serbia -- 10m euros, support to the Agency for Accreditation of Health Institutes million and 500,000 euros, and support the fight against drugs for the implementation of the drug strategy million and 500 000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33470	Thank you, colleague Rancic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtic Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Jevtović Vukojičić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33471	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, my amendment continues to concern the protection of vulnerable groups. The yellow company, which had trusted power until 2012, was not enough just to leave behind 30,000 legally invisible persons from the most vulnerable category, but also to rob children distracted by 157 million. In contrast, this government and the SNS government are in a very responsible way leading social policy and socio-protective function towards the most vulnerable residents. This is also evident in the development of social protection services in local communities so that the lives of citizens, those who are old, those who have developmental disorders, those who are victims of domestic violence, and also children, can provide quality life and enable access to those services. In order to develop services evenly in the local community, the government has defined from the republican budget the means to develop these services in those poor municipalities. There are five social protection services available to both old and children with developmental disorders and victims of domestic violence and young people coming out of the social protection system. Also, I want to commend the responsible social policy of the city of Belgrade. In the city of Belgrade, there is a predah service facility that will have a capacity for 40 children, which is actually a support for those parents who take care of children daily with developmental disorders. I also want to point out that for the first time since the budget, this government has identified funds for housing the old in private homes. This government runs a responsible and social economic policy, and therefore we will support the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33472	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bagby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33473	Thank you, Your Honor. The esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the basic reason for the adoption of this law is the need to establish an efficient, transparent, co-ordinated and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government covering all key aspects of social and economic development policy and regional and spatial development, with optimal use of budgetary resources by ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia, including autonomous provinces and local self-government units. The amendment I have submitted is provided for in Article 4. The bill adds paragraph 3, which reads - the planning documents bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of the judiciary, with the aim of defining the purpose of the draft documents. As I have already said in the interpretation of the previous amendment, under the efficiency of the judiciary, the existence of such a judicial system in which resources are effectively managed and rationally used, subject to cases and judges within reasonable time limits, applies legally prescribed procedures with respect to human and minority rights and freedoms guaranteed both domestic and international rules. I am convinced that when we talk about increasing the efficiency of the judiciary, it would be extremely helpful to introduce a tone recording of the trial in all courts in Serbia, which would significantly speed up the judicial process, lead to significant savings, and enable the parties to close the proceedings in a much shorter time. It is estimated that about 60% of the time of court proceedings is spent on dictatorship in the record, so this data alone shows us how much time and, of course, budgets could be spent if a practice of recording the trial was introduced into the Serbian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33474	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Comrade Komlenski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33475	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, I have submitted to Article 4, an amendment that is absolutely in line with the amendments I have made to the first three members of this law. Namely, the planning documents defined by the 4th term and type of planning documents are very important for the social equality of the future development of the Republic of Serbia. This is the basic reason why I have also suggested that item 3 be added, which would practically make this social equality category binding when making up the planning documents. And let me remind you that the planning documents are development planning documents, public policy documents and other planning documents that are under this category. Among other things, the most important of all these plans are investment plans, and investment plans are exactly the segment that should lead to social equality when it comes to the level of the Republic of Serbia, but also the level of local communities. You know, apart from the uneven development that needs to be prevented in the future with this kind of planning, there is an unequal development and inadequate and unequal and at the level of certain local communities. Obrenovac is one of the good examples of how in the last, I must say, four, five years, indeed in one planned way, evenly harmonizes, first, the development of all parts of the territory of this local self-government, but also with one future development plan that should come as an upgrade to all when all parts of the Obrenovac municipality reach a certain level of infrastructure development. This is very important as from the level of the Republic, because of the rest of our citizens in those areas where future investors will not have too much interest in developing infrastructure to open factories, and it is very important that the demographic picture of Serbia looks much better than it looks today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33476	Thank you. National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33477	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the proposed amendment underlines the importance of traffic as important areas inescapable in the adoption of planning documents. Given that good traffic infrastructure contributes to the development of the economy, to good traffic integration and alignment of all modes of traffic, as well as to persuasion through all areas of everyday life, an absolutely necessary good analysis, good forecast and implementation of the solutions made in development plans, investment plans, development programmes and the like. The quality of life of citizens depends on the adoption of planning documents. The seriousness of this job is absolutely recognised by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and hence, on the agenda of this bill as a roof document, a proposal that includes all the factors that will contribute to responsible business management, impact assessment through various reports and which recognises exclusively transparent work. Given that coming to the SNS authorities, traffic is recognised as a priority, as the basis for new investments, thus and the development of the economy, the development of society, the amendment submitted once again points to the importance of traffic as a mandatory element of each planning document and certainly good infrastructure, the use of the benefits this area carries with it puts Serbia in a better position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33478	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. A colleague of Parezanovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33479	Thank you. Dear fellow ministers, I would like to point out one more thing that, I would say, shows how important education planning is, and that is one paradox we had up to four, five years ago, that is, the situation we had. A large number of unemployed on the one hand, and on the other hand, the situation that employers can't easily find workers or, more clearly, the discrepancies between the labour market and the real needs of the economy or even clearer education, we trained children in such a way that after school they couldn't find a job. I think that in the previous two years in the area of education, we have made a lot of legal solutions that need first and foremost to bring education and real economy together as much as possible. I've already spoken in one of the previous exhibitions, just on the case of my town of Cačka, as far as it's been expressed. After 30 years, we have managed to secure one big investment for our city and in the next two years, Germany's Forver company will employ over 1,000 citizens of the Moravia County. Over the next month, we expect the president of Serbia to lay a cornerstone. In addition to providing infrastructure conditions for the investor to come, one of the main topics in the negotiations was the subject of education and our need to convince foreign partners that we have an education structure that will enable their company to develop and that we will be able to provide enough skilled labour. At the very end, I must also comment on these empty benches on my right. For the third day, we have been talking about details, and apparently some MPs, above all, think about former regime MPs, have some better things to do than stay at their jobs in their working hours. Apparently, some people take this job as a hobby and come here on their own time, when they have time and according to it as their election results.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33480	Thank you. Before we go any further, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the time provided for in Article 158. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, under which each applicant of the amendment has the right to discuss for up to two minutes, spent. Only time remains for parliamentary groups and authorised representatives who have not yet spent that time for further discussion. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Blaža Knezevic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the title above members and Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? None of the applicants of the amendment are there. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Nemanja Sarovic together submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic have tabled an amendment proposing amendments to the article. 13, 17, 19, 27 and 28. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Vjerica Radeta together submitted to the title above members and Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the title above members and Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the title above members and Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marina Ristic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the title above the members and Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the title above the members and members of the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milorad Mircic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radet and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MPs of Aleksandra Belačić, Natasa Sp, together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 25th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic and Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Natasa Sp together submitted to the title above the members and Article 31 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Tomislav LJubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Momcilo Mandic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Ruzica Nikolic jointly submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Zoran Krasic, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the title above the members and members of the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic to Article 425. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marina Ristic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 42nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and the joint MPs of Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and Zoran Krasic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanović and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the Second Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav Ljubenović and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and the MPs Miljan Damjanović and Milorad Mircic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Nemanja Sarović and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Momcilo Mandic and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Marina Ristic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Dubravko Bojic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Ružica Nikolic and Ljiljana Mihajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and MPs together Nemanja Sarovic and Nikola Savic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Miljan Damjanović and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Petar Jojic and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and MPs Sreto Peric and Nikola Savic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Dubravko Bojic and Nemanja Sarovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Ružica Nikolic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Sreto Peric and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Nemanja Sarović and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Momcilo Mandic and Sreto Peric submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Accounting Act, in particular. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Jelenkovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33481	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, our amendments were primarily related to the time period, i.e. the deadline given by the proposal, which is that instead of six months, our proposal was to be of eight months for a simple reason to give the company and the companies that have an obligation to hire independent auditors and to evaluate their final account, simply working on the market, give a little more space to coordinate by the end of this calendar year. The state, as we know, is trying to protect the buyer from monopoly by creating an ambience by increasing competition and thus allowing those who intend to appear on this market to arrive in due time to provide the necessary documentation and increase this market, and thus a good opportunity to create new jobs. As for the work that was related to the natural persons, as it stood, we have suggested that, after the words “under Article 3 of this Law,” the point is replaced by a comma and add the words “as well as a natural person who has been prosecuted in criminal and criminal offences or in the course of a commercial offence”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33482	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav Ljubenović and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Momcilo Mandic and Filip Stojanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Dr Ivan Bauer, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendment, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENT OF THE REVISION LAW You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Ivan Bauer, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and MPs Dubravko Bojic and Ruzica Nikolic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Dr Ivan Bauer, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and the joint MPs of Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendment, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE FACTORING LAW You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Petar Jojic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Alexander Seselj and Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Dr Ivan Bauer, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Momcilo Mandic, Marina Ristic and Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendment, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Games on Happiness You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected him as the incomplete amendment of the People's MPs Dr. Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahje Fehratovic on Articles 5, 6, 86, 94, 96 and 130. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs Alexander Seselj and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazić and together Nemanja Sarović and Natasa Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mirčić and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and MPs Miljan Damjanović and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendment, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Nemanja Sarović and Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Mihajlović and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Nemanja Sarovic and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Miljan Damjanović, Nemanja Sarović and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Sreto Peric and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Dubravko Bojic and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mirčić and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Nemanja Sarović and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and the MPs Alksandar Seselj and Nikola Savic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Momcilo Mandic and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and the MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Vjerica Radet together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and MPs Filip Stojanović and Ruzica Nikolic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Petar Jojic and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Dubravko Bojic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Momcilo Mandic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Miljan Damjanović and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Ljiljana Mihajlović and Nemanja Sarovic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 30th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Ružica Nikolic, Petar Jojic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 31st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Tomislav LJubenović, Momcilo Mandic and Sreto Peric together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 33rd amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Ružica Nikolic, Petar Jojic and Marina Ristic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Sreto Peric, Nemanja Sarović and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Djurisic and Nikola Savic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and by Milorad Mircic and Ruzica Nikolic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Djurisic and Natasa Jovanovic and Nikola Savic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Nemanja Sarović, Miljan Damjanović and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Tomislav LJubenović and Petar Jojic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Aleksandra Belačić, Marina Ristic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 47th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Nemanja Sarović and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 48th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and by Milorad Mirčić and Aleksandar Seselj together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 49th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and LJljana Mihajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and, together, Milorad Mirčić and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Tomislav LJubenović and Dubravko Bojic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 53rd amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Sreto Peric and Ružica Nikolic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 54th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Momcilo Mandić and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 55th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Nemanja Sarović, Filip Stojanović and Ružica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 79th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33483	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33484	Since the amendment has been adopted by a proposing representative, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33485	I also accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33486	Since the amendment has been adopted by a proposing representative, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 88th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completings of Taxes on the Addendum of Value You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marko Djurisic and the MPs together Nemanja Sarović, Miljan Damjanovic and Ružica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 9 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament to the Amendments and Supplements Act on Excises. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and MPs together Nemanja Sarović and Natasa Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Filip Stojanović and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Ružica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sada, Banka intesa a.d. Belgrade, NBG Banka Malta LTD, AIK Banka a.d. Nis and Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad. You have received an amendment submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives on the table of amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the amendment to Article 3. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33487	We accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-18-0.u33488	Thank you. For reasons of accepting amendments by the proposings, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the search for the amendment, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 19 April 2018, starting at 10.00 a.m., as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. This is what we'd end up with today's work.
