ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49981	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. Please insert their identification cards into the MPs' units to determine how many MPs there are in the O.R. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. We continue with the work and the word has an MP, Aleksandar Stevanovic. He's not here. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49982	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates and other promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are very pleased that the budget envisions the reconstruction of the Novi Pazar-Tutin road, one of the most endangered state roads in Serbia, the path of death, which tragically lost more people. The road infrastructure in this part of the country is disastrous and the efforts taken by the government to take the consequences of this reduction are commendable, especially if we have in mind and almost start works in the cave area building a section from Raskovic to Tuzinj, which invests the state on the request of academics Zukorlic. This route, like all other roads in Sandzak, should have been done long ago, that we had responsible representatives of local authorities, because the same package approved the construction of 23 other streets in Novi Pazar, for which citizens had written back for years the requirements of local authorities on the necessity of their handling, financed the project documentation themselves, kept waiting, some over 10 years, for certain stakeholders to start doing their job. However, while the state provided an investor, found a contractor and a subcontractor, the city did not give consent to the implementation of these projects. This is probably a unique case in the world that a local self-government rejects direct investment, especially travel infrastructure. The backdrop is that it violates the civil robbery system, taking money from them to build roads, and that the local authorities Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin have been working in Sandzak for decades. When mentioned here in the Assembly, the prime minister and ministers couldn't believe it. However, receipts have now come with the seals of units of local self-government and their authorities which confirm that money has been taken from citizens to build roads, and this is about multimillion figures. Building a cave road would have been stopped if it had been under the authority of local authorities, but fortunately falls under the care of the state, and local sheriffs couldn't stop the work. This is organized crime, the victims of which have been tortured and bereaved residents of Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica and other cities. The crime includes Ljajic and Ugljanin's personnel and their local authorities. So these days, they're trying to draw attention to themselves and their crime, and it has to stop. When it comes to bookshops and casinos, it is one of the biggest monsters that is in expansion in our society, especially since they are owners of these objects of ossions, protected by certain parts of local prosecutors and courts, so they do not respect legally prescribed distances from educational institutions or religious objects. We led the citizens in an attempt to stop this haughtiness and collected a petition of over 10,000 signatures that we handed over to the competent ministries. Here I must especially thank Minister Sarčević, who personally received a petition from the citizens of Novi Pazar, expressed his willingness to assist as much as he was in his jurisdiction. The problem, however, is that the tax administration in whose jurisdiction has so far been overseeing the legality of the work of bookshops and casinos has not worked enough in the field, as well as the prosthesis of policies and certain parts of police, prosecutors and courts. So today, we have an even greater number of bookies and casinos that illegally and contrary to the law work near educational institutions and further destroy the youth. Special encouragement to such individuals is given by politicians who directly or indirectly participate in promoting the same and encouraging those people. How else do we comment on the fact that in the very center of Novi Pazar there is a large casino and bookshop on which the inscription – Koza Nostra stood when opening the window? Or the mayor of Novi Pazar opens a sports playground called Mozart and thus promotes this bookshop. In the end, due to these and other organised crimes, Uljanin and Ljajic have found a common denominator, a common word contained in false and orchestrated attacks against academics Zukorlic, a party of Justice and Reconciliation, the Islamic Community. That is why they want to cover up their crimes that are slowly coming toll and hence yesterday's rush, the nebuloss of party members who have torn up the Islamic community in Serbia, the joint desire of Ugljanin and Ljajic to continue with the idea. I know our people won't let that happen, some have already tried and failed, and if they continue they'll only break their teeth about the Islamic community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49983	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49984	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly. I am advocating the Rules of Procedure, member of the 107th flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure and dignity of the National Assembly. I can understand the previous speaker that he has been frustrated along with his party and party leader by losing all possible elections and exams with citizens both Novi Pazar, Sandzak, Raska districts and the Republic of Serbia since 2008, but it is not a problem. The problem is that in this high and respected home he refers to the leader of his party as an academic. What Academy of Science? This is a flagrant insult to the Serbian Academy of Sciences. Is that the Duklan Academy of Science? Some imaginary science academy. Please, let us seriously debate here and respect and appreciate one of the most important institutions for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Serbian Academy of Science. Don't let people and colleagues of this kind get their hands on such serious titles and serious things and play with institutions that are crucial to the development of our country, which have always been one of the pillars of our statehood and our country. Well, not everyone can come in and be a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences. Well, you can't even have a letter member like that. You have procedures, you have competitions. Sign up. Don't be a member of the Dukljan Academy of Science or any other Academy of Science. Respect the Republic of Serbia, respect the Serbian Academy of Science. Thank you, Your Honor, I'm not asking the National Assembly to declare the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49985	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49986	Thank you. A member of 106, so he never listened to what I said before. I didn't mention SANA, I didn't mention any other academy, I just said academic. Not everyone in this country has to be a member of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. I expected him to say something about these crimes of his president, about his degree in doctorate that was mentioned in this assembly, about something else. However, without any other arguments, a colleague went to hit where he thought he could achieve something. Thank God in this country there are enough free, brave, dignified people who know what the truth is and who won't fall for this kind of provocation, this kind of nonsense, an attempt to turn away from the subject, as the gentleman has now done, who may need to think more about what is being cited as his president about the crimes of his political party. I have not heard that he has ever fenced himself on his MP, who has been expelled from this House, who has stolen those perfumes and lipsticks. They have not driven him out of their political party, they have done nothing to improve the dignity in any way, which they themselves are putting at risk in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49987	Thank you. I suppose in any case we shouldn't vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Milorad Mijatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49988	Honorable president, you know, when someone loses, then they use every means possible, otherwise Mufti Zukorlic is used by all possible wicked means to reach political authority. Well, you won't get to political authority, because the people in Sandzak or the Raška region know who you are, knows what you're taking, knows what you're doing, knows how you failed and how you failed the policy you stood up for. That's why you don't trust that part. I wouldn't talk any further, I don't think there's any need to explain to losers, what politics means. Politics means honor, it means honesty, it means faith in the state you're in, and you don't have it all, but you want to do it because of political interests. Furthermore, if we are the party that we are, and we are an honorable party, we have precisely developed criteria and we know how to define what is honorable, what is fair, and we know what the state of Serbia means. That's what hurts you, and that's why you're eternal losers. Of course, I'm not going to caricate what the academy means. The academy has as much as you want and I could've been an academic for $120, the New York Academy of Science. I didn't want to pay, because it would be a humiliation to the Serbian Academy of Sciences and everyone would climb up. Second, you know, wear titles, and doctorate with your own wife, that's the highlight of immorality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49989	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49990	Thank you. I expected a little more from a doctor of science, however, especially this part when it comes to faith. Only those who believe and especially other people's faith can speak of faith. That's why this is one bottom we've heard now, and no one has the right to talk about other people's faith, cheating faith, especially if it doesn't belong to that religion. On the other hand, he keeps avoiding saying something about his own crimes, dealing with crime in his own ranks. I understand this anxiety of both predecessors, however, they should first determine whether their party president's diplomat is legal and legitimate, and then talk about other things about other people as well. Secondly, you come along, sir, and in any way dispute anything that he wrote from us who were at that university, doctorate and scientifically elaborated, it's facts, and then we can talk about your words like this. Until then, devote yourself to cleaning your own yard, focus on telling why you haven't yet excluded from the party of the one who, as a member of your party as a member of this Parliament, stole perfumes and lipsticks at Frankfurt Airport, commit to cleaning up all those other crimes that are being put on the line. Thank you. (Natasa Jovanovic: Why don't the presidents react, attack a man for no reason and on the basis of his religion? You as president have to act. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49991	I'll give Vladimir Marinkovic my word and then we'll finish it. What kind of man are they attacking? (Natasa Jovanovic: So they attack a man based on his religion. That's outrageous. Take it easy. I'm not exactly the kind of person who can judge that well, but don't be so sensitive. Don't worry. No one will be threatened by nationality or religion, believe me in this House, at least while I'm here. Just let me run the session for a minute. I'm trying. Mr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49992	Thank you, Your Honor. I advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure in 108 and 109, while I must point out that my colleague Dr. Mijatovic, a man known for his tolerance and, of course, that these accusations we have on this right are not standing and are not right. Otherwise, one of the wings of our party is – the brother is nice to whatever religion he was, so we are all equal to all of us to instruct any aspect of insulting anyone on religious, ethnic or any other basis of belonging, it is really neither serious nor right, nor expressing respect for this Assembly or citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is really more unnecessary to respond to the accusations of these people who carried out their phalanges on the streets in green shirts, who have re-methyled order and peace, who have re-methyled stability in one part of our country's territory, speak and let them talk about Rasim Ljajic, who has always been state-owned, who has done so much for the state of Serbia, and today he is doing it, bringing investors...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49993	Ambassador, put that picture down. Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49994	... working together with the president of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49995	Can I ask security to do their job, I don't know what else we haven't brought into parliament, and stone and paintings. (The People's MP Miladin Ševarlic enters the picture room. I believe it's a nice picture, let's put it in the hall of the Assembly, not here in the benches. I don't even know how you got into an O.R. with such a big picture. I know it's a "Blue Tomb" and let's expose it, let's see all the people. Don't make it out of parliament and gallery, please. (Miladin Ševarlic): I apologize, what is this about? Who am I jeopardizing by bringing in this picture? I can't anymore, really people I don't know what to do anymore. It's a nice picture, I believe, of all compliments and to you for bringing it to the author of the painting, give it to the education service to expose it in the hall of parliament. I don't see a messenger from you, nor anyone can sit down. (Miladin Ševarlic): Please give me a member of the Rules of Procedure by whom I should not hold this picture... I don't want to argue at all. Come on, take that picture. Do we understand each other? (Miladin Ševarlic):... for all those sacrifices the congregation wouldn't honor. () Two minutes' break so the MPs understand that we are in the Assembly Hall, that we will discuss the budget. We don't want to build a gallery or perform, nothing. Everything has its place. We're adults. It's nice real, I know everything, I'm asking you again not to take that away from me now. Go ahead, you want me to come down and take a picture from the gentleman's hand? It's not a problem. Here, I'll have to come down. You can't even bring in a gun, a stone, I guess we know what you can and can't do. (Miladin Ševarlic): I say again, because this assembly did not want to honor all those victims. ) You know, MP, there is a museum next to us, this museum sounds empty and has a fantastic exhibition about World War I, and you didn't set foot there. Don't lecture me on patriotism and how something should be marked. The MPs weren't at that museum, which isn't exactly to boast. Please, MP. (The president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, comes down and goes to the MP Miladin Ševarlic, to ask him to take the picture out of the hall, after which he did. ) [[after breaks]] I'm asking the Ministry of the Interior Security Service, who are only here for the sake of order and for us to be able to work, do their job or leave parliament, because we don't need them anymore. Indeed, it makes no sense for Parliament's president to make an order in the O.R. and to present the cases. I'm shocked by the way that MPs can bring in some kind of object that doesn't belong here and isn't meant to work. What's going on? And they're all miss your service, let me tell you right now. This is where the stones came in, we went over it, there was a lot of stuff coming in here, and now it's taking pictures of such a big gauge that I can't see an MP behind. What's next you'll allow? And then we say “take away, ” and the two of them stand beside the messengers. Well, it's amazing. And I need the President of Parliament to embarrass himself here, and I haven't seen it yet. Take the footage, when you have time, see what happened when the MPs in the French Parliament headed for the chairman. The security service just stood still outside and was not called by the president of parliament. This is a security error, not the President of Parliament or other MPs. Please continue to discuss the bill we have in front of us. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49997	Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mali, I will focus on what is very important to me in your draft budget, which I have been talking about so far, which you have not fully answered. I would first and foremost single out the government's relationship to the private sector. Of course I haven't made an oversight. I know about the 1% unemployment tax reduction, and I don't think it's a pointless move, but I'd like to explain to you from what angle I'm looking at your budget. You're here in Parliament at the same time as the legislator and employer, right? That's the difference between you and someone on the side of the private sector watching the budget. I understand the need for both workers and the state to raise the minimum labour price through the fight for the standard and very often state as arguments, you are calling for the past, so you quote what the labour price was five or ten years ago. I don't think that's a good argument for you. Imagine today, Jeremy Paul defends the FED policy by quoting what the D.A. Jones index is now compared to the 2008 Greenspen. It's not an analogy that can handle something. I want to tell you where I see the problem and why I said I thought you brought in one election budget. I have no objection to the election, on the contrary, I have one more argument for them after yesterday's debate in parliament, but they are always a shock to the economy. You have very ambitious plans and then I'm interested in what you've prepared for the effects of the shock to be minimalized. You've raised the labour price by 9%, am I right, 8.6%, to round to 9%? How much, on the other hand, are you increasing your salaries to your public sector employees? For as much as that. Right? So here, as a legislator, you've raised the minimum labour price, but here as an employer you give yourself 9% more money from the budget, and that's how you cancel the effects of increasing the labour price as your cost by 1%, that's what I said first. (Sinisha Mali: 12 billion matches. ) From the point of view of the private sector, first question, answer me, who has had a crucial impact on the growth of our economy and on the economy of Serbia over the past few years? I don't think public enterprises have reported profits, earned profits, paid profits in the budget, I don't mean that. But, come on, if it's about the agrarian, trying someone here in parliament or you from the government, tell me three dominant state-owned companies in the agrarian. Why didn't I attack the PKK privatisation, even though I have objections to this secrecy? It's not bad to buy something good. I haven't seen those who bought the PKK, they're not in our daily lives, I don't see them as partners of other people who do business in agrarian. But tell me on the PKK case and the privatisation that you are silent about while representatives of the parliamentary majority, including most of the opposition, are criticising privatisation. Here's an example of the PKK. It's privatized "Fricom", a fantastic company, privatized "Imlek", we can see how Imlek works and compare these two companies with those sectors of the PKK that remained in state, i.e. Social property. Right? So privatization isn't something to frighten this country. You agree that you need to put in control and do everything you can to make it legal, but that's all your business, as finance minister. You're telling me that you're nimbling with some other tax cuts that burden on the private sector, but what happens if we have in mind everything that's characteristic of our economy right now? We don't know, nor can you know how the G20 summit in Argentina will end. But however it ends, it will either have positive or negative consequences for the global economy and thus reflect it as a problem here. In 2008, we didn't fail on our own. In 2007, it's fantastic, why? Because this positive image of the world economy has been poured over into Serbia. The period of the most dynamic development of our civilization has stopped the destruction of Lehman Brothers Bank. At that moment, our agony began. So we got to minus three, so we got to borrowing. I remember a very good debate with Prime Minister Cvetkovic, I did not support him, Mr Jovanovic, when we owed a billion dollars in America, with an interest rate of 11%, but it was the only way to survive then. As the only way to survive in 2014 was to cut wages and pensions by 10%. Of course, that rule was broken by which pensions were uncut, but then only something was realized that had been clear many years before. The '90s had their own economic price. The paradox is that, to the greatest extent, those responsible for the chaos of the 1990s expose society to the invoice in 2014, trying to correct what was the anomaly of our economic system and economic life. So, what's going on with the private sector? It will clearly be under more pressure than it has ever been, among other things, and through an increase in labour prices, there is no more quantitative discounts, interest growth and in the world, interest on the dollar increases, interest growth on the euro. Of course, the fantastic result is the one that describes the direct foreign investment here in Serbia, and we have not sold anything seriously or largely. We didn't sell the EPS, we didn't sell Telecom. I don't mind selling, but I'm just saying that the result, the result of the big investments, is respectable. I'm from the opposition, and it's a disaster for me to realize that today when you vote in the American-Serbian Chamber of Commerce, your government has won my opposition, because we are in total retrograde more than you are, on the economic side. But exactly what you're doing, I want to point to weakness and I don't think they're random. There's no development bank, no inefficient development fund. The government has allowed a former minister of the economy to destroy the Development Fund. We are, in that sense, left to the market. No problem, but the market did not form a minimum labour price, but the government, in negotiations with trade unions and employers. I don't know a lot of employers who look forward to saying, "No, the state," but everyone looks somewhere to sew, and then, as God asks, how will they manage? As regards agrarians as Serbia's development potential, exactly, he is our development potential, but we don't have an agro-industry complex. There are certain segments that are preserved, revitalised, that are dynamic, but that's not overall. We can't run a serious agrarian policy if we're hostages to demagogy. Because we passed a law last year that allows the privatisation of agricultural land? Is that some kind of resource, Mr. Mali? It's not popular. We don't have much resources to develop this country. Is there any capital here? Yes, it is. What's up with that? What do you do to remove that bauk that follows the idea of privatization of agricultural land? These are topics that are not just divided into budgets, to which you have brought this debate. And again to go back to something that I think is very important, and I've been fighting it since the first moment -- a ban on public sector employment. Let's see the first jobs we expect this public sector to do for us. Let's follow the rules and know who can work in the public sector, who can't. By deciding to ban employment, we have destroyed competitiveness. Those at work know they're at work and no one can do anything to them. Someone who's good can choose, or go to a private where his salary will grow 50% less than in the public sector, where he can't get a job, or go outside. If he comes to a private, he will share the fate of the private sector in Serbia, which is life from today to tomorrow. It is not just the government's responsibility, nor is only Serbia responsible for it, it is the fate of private business. You can get everything and lose everything very easily. But I ask you, why are you holding that decision still in force? Especially since I think the IMF said there's no reason for her anymore. Let's get this straight, put in place some efficiency system, follow some rules. One more question for you. Public enterprises. Why am I fighting for corporate governance? Well, all public enterprises are in "vd" status. Why are they in "vd" status? How can we talk about their strategic development if everything is in "vd" condition? I have no desire to juggle with individuals at all, but the law is very clear. Without corporate governance of public enterprises, it will make a profit, but, let me ask you – how much of this gain is actually only camouflage and money that has been transferred, and companies are deprived of investment and development? I've got a few cases like this. Besides, we could see what happened to the EPS last year. It's a big system, it's hard to transform. But, you know what, someone has to answer because our country has been at a minimum level since then, at a historic minimum. It's not true she was just a bad year. We watch the world change. In November we walk in shorts and short sleeve shirts. So, how do we get in next year? There is no strategy for the development of our agro-industry sector, no irrigation strategy, no land-composition strategy. The most successful sector of our agrarian is private, corporate. The success of the Serbian agrarian has its own name, as much as anyone likes it or not, it is Kostic, Miskovic, Matijević and I am not counting any further. You know that very well. It is also in the remaining sectors of our economy. Then it must be said here and said – the private sector is out of a job. The hundreds of thousands mentioned as jobless people in the last few years, it's a private sector. The private sector has carried out this reform on its back, and it deserves more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49998	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u49999	I thank you, President. If the alibi is that Mr. Jovanovic did not vote for then Prime Minister Cvetkovic for everything that was done in 2001 when the Privatisation Act was passed, then really Mr. Jovanovic should imagine what he said. I didn't get an answer to the question that I asked here very publicly yesterday, to let the citizens hear. 2,400 privatisations were conducted under the 2001 law, $128 billion was entered into Serbia on the basis of these privatisations. Where's the money? Where did this money that Serbia needed to use something, to make some rebirth, to bring new investments into those enterprises that were devastated? I mentioned "Magnophrom", Mr. Jovanovic. I don't want to mention Fidelinka, you know that much better than I do. That's what you're going to answer, I don't have to answer for Fidelinka, you know what happened to that firm, but I'm asking you what happened where you acted and how you acted. What happened to the huge number of employees from those companies? What caused hundreds of thousands of people to find themselves in the street? Why hasn't a new investment been made in these companies? Why aren't jobs preserved? Where were you? What were you doing? Where were you? I have no intention of talking here about decency or rudeness in addressing ministers or any other, it's a reflection of education and I'm not getting into it, but I'm talking about facts, and the facts are cruel and they say that of 2,400 privatisations, 640 was the answer – it's breaking up. Why? Return to Užica "Rocket" 30 extremely equipped tourist buses. Return the property to all those whose property has been stolen. Return that and then you have the right to say – I did not vote for someone. Thank you. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50000	National MP Marijan Risticevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I will give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 106 and Article 107. Mr. Jovanovic didn't exactly stick to the subject, which doesn't bother me, it even fit me, but a few half-untruths were said. So I believe that the agrarian was in a situation that he described at the moment when some other government exercised power in this country, but I must say that this government had the courage to predict 30% of the agricultural state land for investment. It's undeniable. Also, this government had the courage to predict 20% of agricultural land for sale in order to increase property and agriculture is competitive. That's why they're criticizing us, and that's what you need to say to Mr. Jovanovic, these right there, sitting right there. We put up with it every day. Also, I have to tell you that instead of the 19 billion incentives, they are now 41 and not only are twice as big, and more than twice as big, but investment investment from incentives is also important. So this year, out of these 41 billion, we have decided not to give it to stimulate agricultural cultures that serve to develop livestock and process abroad, but to push 14 billion into investments. So, of 41, 14 billion goes into investment, so that those criticisms of yours stand in relation to the former government, because this government has turned the list and started investment in the agrarian, and you need to know that what we did, it's like when you plant the seedling. It will not give birth immediately, but in three, four years it will also feel that the social product from the agrarians will be far greater than it was in the previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50002	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50003	Transition is a process, Mr. Jovanovic, transition is an unprecedented process. Serbia has never been through it before. Do you know what the percentage of privatisation performance in other Eastern European societies is? Between 70% and 75% of privatised companies have collapsed through the transition. I'm not happy about it. You're asking me about Fidelinka. I am an expert, you were the parliamentary majority when it was privatized in 2004, privatized, abused, which happens in every world, workers lost their jobs in bankruptcy. This is where the former director of the Agency for Licensing Bank Managers, has been in bankruptcy for years, has been an industrial and archaeological site. Out of bankruptcy, I rented a drive like 10 other companies and worked there until politics got me out of here. Here, and now it's empty. Fourth year behind me. No one will ever run that mill again, because there is no market anymore, nor for Žitko, nor for Micidis, nor for the Kickindian mill, nor for the Class. The Magrohrom 10 years of market-free sanctions have been destroyed in the bombing, hundreds of thousands of people with a work book and 10 years of forced rest, that's what we got. 128 billion, a thousand billion would be small to make up for, to fill that hole that was created in the '90s. You know, where did this end? Our salary was October 5th, you know how much? Thirty marks. That money went into much more consumption than the one that would be adequate to the social product that we're creating. Is that right, Mr. Mali, you're the finance minister? Or, for years, we have spent more than we have created, and the more we have spent, the less what we are entitled to and what this country needs. It is true that some decisions have been made and it is not disputed, but you defend them. Defend privatisation here, because without privatisation there is no healthy economy, without a healthy economy there is no Serbia. And after those decisions, like everything that's happened in the country in the last few years, the atmosphere in society is more crazy than ever. They hear messages here today. When we come to power, we'll take everything away. Well, in the Chinese cult of revolution, it was rhetoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50004	Thank you. Replica has Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50005	I thank Mrs Gojkovic, just a few remarks. I didn't understand what Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said, the words addressed to Sinishi Mali that he was both a legislator and an employer. The legislator is the National Assembly, is not the legislator of the Government and is not the legislator of the Ministry of Finance. That's one thing. (Kedomir Jovanovic: legislator. ) You talked about the private sector and that he practically ripped our economy out of the crisis from 2014, that's true, but what you didn't say was that this private sector was developed thanks to the fact that we had an active state, that we had one very active Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, thanks to whom these investments and came to the Republic of Serbia and thanks to that active state, we opened hundreds of new factories in Serbia in less than four years and hired about 150,000 people and managed to lower the unemployment rate from over 26% to 11%. You're talking about taking credit. It is true that the price of capital in 2008, 2009 and 2010 was much higher than today, it is true, but not only the price of capital, the problem is the reasons why loans were taken. These loans were not taken to raise production in Serbia, but to increase salaries and pensions on unrealistic grounds, so that the regime could win the next election. That's what you didn't say, and what's very important is that the citizens of Serbia know. You're asking where our Development Bank is? We had, Mr. Jovanovic, one Vojvodine Development Bank. Ask those sitting next to you what happened to Vojvodina Development Bank and what was the Vojvodina Development Bank doing? The Development Bank has served this and why it should be cautious, in my opinion, I am now expressing my personal opinion whenever the state is considering whether to introduce or not to introduce the Development Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50006	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50007	The Vojvodina Development Bank served to pump DS money and parties with them in the coalition during the election campaign to have more money and to win the elections. These are all the consequences of one devastating economic policy that we had to face.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50008	You want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50009	I'm used to the atmosphere in the Assembly, em, which I was criticised for thinking when they were taking those loans, I am now, but when they talk about the Development Bank, they least think about the Vojvodina Development Bank, the one they took off with a party menu, they dated three million. I don't mean that, but I think the finance minister knows what I'm talking about. We have an example in Croatia. What is the role of the serious Development Bank? There are international mechanisms that we should only apply and that prevent party abuse. That's why I'm talking about corporateizing the economy of reported companies. I'm not saying they're all irresponsible, but as long as there's no corporate governance, there's going to be a chance for some of the mistakes that exist, they're making too high a price early. It's absolutely like that. It is true that loans were taken in 2008, 2009 to finance a state that refuses to reform itself. The fact that others agree to this abnormal atmosphere in the congregation, I won't. I don't want to lecture anyone about something ten years ago, but I know very well who the parliamentary majority was then, I didn't. I criticized it then, as I criticise today. I mean, it's not your economy or ours. I have no problem saying that the Labour Act was necessary in this country, I have no problem saying that the fantastic rate of exports of foreign direct investment to Serbia and that when we compare it with other countries, we may understand more. In doing so, when we see where we bring you what they're doing and they invest their money in a country we don't know if they're going to be in Europe tomorrow, or if they're going to be on another side of it, in a country where you don't know if you're going to lose the market of two million people tomorrow, or if you're going to get it, in a country where you don't know that when someone comes to power, they're going to cancel all the contracts that you've previously made. I respect those results, but that's not enough first. You have to defend yourself with that. What I understand is that 90% of Serbia doesn't understand, so I am a traitor to both your voters and most of those who are in the opposition today, but there is not your economy and our economy, SNS and LDP, DS, SPS, as there is no SNS and LDP of Serbia, just one. That's what needs to be taken care of, and these are the discussions when to say so, when the minister has to say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50010	Replica, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50011	I would like to thank the President. You know what, the thesis "it's not my fault, it's transition's fault" is the easiest thing to say is pointless. I, Mr Jovanovic, ask you, ask a very simple question – why have you allowed the property to be sucked out of the companies you privatized. They're companies that did business with majority social capital. The assets of these companies went to other companies, tycoon companies, which you know very well. Why didn't you stop it? Why didn't you stop rich tycoons from getting rich in your time? To enrich those you've allowed to disappear from state-owned enterprises in restructuring, property, and find a huge fortune in other private enterprises? The FAP in Priboj has been in restructuring for 25 years. Everything from the FAP has been sucked out. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Who sucked? Aren't you? (Kedomir Jovanovic: What did I suck through? ) In what way did you prevent, just explain to me, how did you prevent anything that was privatized from being transferred into other people's pockets? Why didn't you establish control? (Kedomir Jovanovic: Because it is private. () Why did you not prevent what was a robbery, what was a crime? Who was processed for everything that happened at the time? Who was responsible for the disappearance of vast assets in this country? Don't keep saying what happened back in the '90s. We know what happened back in the '90s, and we're aware of that. That's not the problem. What's happened since 2000? October, 5. October was an October of too many promises. After that 5. In October, you had a year after your year of disappointment, disappointment and disappointment, and don't let any more citizens down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50012	I have to follow up on the replicas. Martinovic's replica, so you'll get it, then the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50013	First of all, Mr. Jovanovic, I didn't tell you that you were a traitor, and I really have no intention of that dictionary... (Kedomir Jovanovic: I didn't say it was you, I said it was your voters. All right, all right. So I didn't tell you that you're a traitor, and I don't want to communicate with you that way. I just want to say one thing to you, I think you should be very clear and decadent to tell you who you are in Serbia that threatens Serbian citizens to close down all factories when they come to power. That's certainly not SNS. It's Dragan Djilas, it's Vuk Jeremic, it's Bosko Obradovic, it's the same or partly the same ones that you are 5. In October 2000, they took over. I'm glad you distanced yourself from them, but I think it would be fair and fair to say who people who think they're returning to the state in which they were in 2012, in Serbia where you had over 400,000 people without a job, in which you didn't have any serious foreign investment, in which you didn't have any serious and any production. In that sense, the SNS is responsible for Serbian citizens. All the investments that came to Serbia, regardless of who brought them, and most of them we brought them, or the government that supports SNS, while we are in power, will remain in Serbia, not because of us, because of the citizens of Serbia, because you are not closing factories because of Alexander Vukic or any SNS MP. If you close down the factory, then you have to explain to those people who at those factory work where they're going to work tomorrow. That's one thing. The other thing, the SNS did what many people said, but they didn't do anything about it. We have done, despite the difficult fiscal consolidation measures, something called Serbia's re-industry. Serbia is no longer just an agrarian country. Serbia is also a country that has a highly developed industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50014	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. He can't. (Bosko Obradovic: Can neither replica nor hurt the Rules of Procedure? I have the right to injure the Rules of Procedure. You've now entered who knows where to pick up the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He can't get out of the hallway. Let me run the session. You came in at 11.06 a.m., like this from the door and you say - injury to the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: What do you care when I come? What did you say? (Bosko Obradovic: I have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure? Don't fight. That street dictionary and manners cannot pass here in parliament. Calm down, slow down. Don't be nervous. (Bosko Obradovic: You are nervous. I know what's bothering you today, but slowly. (Bosko Obradovic: You are throwing out a picture of "Blue Tombs" from the hall. Shame on you. (Bosko Obradović: Shame on you. I won't let you do that. Ambassador Obradovic, you are the person who will now be making a circus out of this House and from a tragic historical event. You are also an MP along with whoever came here to teach a lesson in the Serbian Parliament and everyone here about tragic events and magnificent events from our history. I'm the last person you should be telling, because 86 of my family gave their lives in World War I, of which my great-grandfather left my life at the Blue Grave. But you, who are going to teach us lessons here today, hate you to at least take a break to the historical museum of Serbia, to look at a phenomenal, fantastic exhibition about these events, and you think you're going to be making a mess in parliament by bringing in here everything you can think of in this room, from rocks to art paintings. And that picture was exhibited in the hall of this parliament for 30 days, not here, but in the hall of parliament, so you walked past it like a Turkish cemetery, according to our people. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to do that. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50015	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I will briefly look back on the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of and economic policy, and also on the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the private sector, de facto, and towards the entire economy of our country. I think the government's relationship to the private sector, but also to the economy in general, has changed materially since 2014 and back here, since the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic, with a few moves that have completely changed the environment or defined the new rules of the game. I am referring to a reforming brand-new 2014 Labour Act. Here I think of the difficult fiscal consolidation measures that the state carried out in its backyard, to show the private sector that it is not a burden, but wants to solve its problems, so that the private sector also grows. And, on the third hand, through huge investment growth, especially investment in infrastructure, where you raise the quality of infrastructure, which you give the opportunity to, and to the private sector and the economy in general, to develop, to make faster, better and more efficient transport of goods, services and capital go beyond borders and to make the private sector grow as well. For those who do not know, the state has two policies in its portfolio, a fiscal policy and a monetary policy. The monetary policy deals with the NBS and that's the question of course, the issue of inflation. As you know, the NBS has been extremely successful, of course, in co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the past few years it has also had control over inflation and control of the exchange rate. The money has never been more stable, and our inflation is 2.3% this year, which is really for praise and much better than even some EU countries. On the other hand, fiscal policy, that's the answer to the question of MPs, there are several directions on which you can develop your fiscal policy. So what we've defined ourselves for, so one step back, I apologize, your fiscal policy can be changed in two ways, that's both in theory and in practice. One is discretionary policy, so you change laws, you change decisions, you change regulations, etc., and it usually takes a little bit more time and you have so-called. Automatic stabilizers. Automatic stabilisers, such as, say, progressive taxation, such as transfer policy, such as the level of public expenditure, are the ones that should be precisely the factor that in the conditions of recession, since your question was about what is happening in terms of shock, crisis, etc., are automatically responding and trying to bring your economy into order or to bring it into line with what is happening in the environment. In simple words, what does that mean? The government of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in the budget ahead of you today, decided on two fiscal policy stabilisers, which are public spending and public investment. Public consumption, we believe that, through the increase in public sector wages from 7% to 12%, we will have the opportunity to avoid recession or increase the growth rate we achieved during 2018, just given the potential shocks that can come from the side. We believe that even if there is a global shock, on the side of domestic demand through salary increases, so what is the instrument of fiscal policy, which is in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will have this type of stabiliser in terms of demand, i.e. support for the rate of growth. On the other hand, we have never more investment, so 30% more investment in infrastructure. What is also a stabiliser in the way it contributes to GDP growth, regardless of the external shocks that can occur in the environment. And that's in favour of what's called, in theory, in practice, of course, we've also defined ourselves as a stimulating fiscal policy. The stimulative fiscal policy, which should contribute to further growth in our GDP, continues to grow in our economy, which implies on the one hand an increase in investment, further talked about at the beginning of the last century, and on the other hand, to contribute through a reduction in the tax burden, therefore, a reduction in public income, but on the other hand, and redundancy of the economy, therefore, a reduction in tax burdens, as you have the opportunity to see in the laws that are in front of you today and in terms of tax relief and in terms of a reduction in fees and ultimately, in terms of reducing the burden on earnings. What I want to say is, I apologize if I've taken a lot of time away from you, it's the very process of setting the minimum labour price. I think not a small number of times are union representatives, representative unions who participate in the work of the Social-Economic Council and said they never have better co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. All the decisions we make and all the negotiations and talks we have on it are neither easy nor simple. You have representatives of the Union of employers, therefore, of all employers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, you have union representatives, you also have representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then by consensus, as far as possible, to make a decision to increase the minimum labour price. We have just been guided by the fact that, through the increase in the minimum labour price, on the one hand, we will affect the increase in population standards, but we have automatically made a decision, automatically, on the redundancy of earnings, and on the burden of the employer to keep them more money and to compensate for that measure of increasing the minimum labour price. I'll remind you in 2018, so this year, a set of measures came into effect that meant increasing the untaxable income from 11,000 and a few dinars to 15,000 dinars. This means that last year the state fully assumed the burden of increasing the minimum labour price. Therefore, the minimum labour price has been increased, but automatically or simultaneously the untaxed part of the income has been increased. This year we did something different and went with a minimum labour price. Part of it was taken over by the state, part of it by the private sector, but it was done in consensus, and I think the Social-Economic Council... The work of this council, which is very important to us, is just showing us the commitment of this government to move together with all our forces forward and to make better decisions and make the decisions we make right in a consensus that will give us the opportunity and that employers are partially satisfied, but also unions to be partially satisfied. They should never be too pleased with each other, it's just impossible. They're conflicting sides. I think that this decision for 2019 has made a consensus that will give us the opportunity to increase pensions, raise wages, say raise the minimum labour price, a large set of tax redundancies of the economy and maximum investment in public infrastructure, next year, precisely these measures of stimulating fiscal policy will give us the right to say that, although there is a G20 Summit and some negative decisions... You can never avoid these shocks, but you have bigger automatic stabilisers I've told you about, and on the other hand, go to a stimulating fiscal policy to support your economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50016	Thank you, Minister. The word is Bosko Obradović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50017	Thank you, Chairman. Infringe is a member of 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, the MP to whom the presentation refers shall have the right to replication. You are all witnessing that the president of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic, was insulting to me, that I had absolutely the right to a replica, directly mentioned my name and last name in a completely unacceptable context, and I think I absolutely had the right to a replica. You know well, Mr. Chairman, perhaps the citizens don't know that we MPs who participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have our own parliamentary clubs, that we can follow the direct transmission of the National Assembly and that we can always react and come to the hall. So someone can't tell us when we're gonna be in the O.R. when we're not gonna be in the O.R. We, even when we're not in the O.R., follow the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I followed this staged debate perfectly between Cedomir Jovanovic, SNS and SPS, because Cedomir Jovanovic is part of the ruling majority and I was so stupid to participate in the work of the National Assembly when it is between you two, you're arguing something. However, when my name was mentioned, when I was directly called by Aleksandar Martinović although I was not in the O.R., of course I immediately came and immediately answered the word, asked for a replica and asked for the violation of the Rules of Procedure because the previous chairman did not give me the right to the replica that followed me. I don't see what's going on here, there's no problem and there's no problem. Just give me the right to a replica that follows my rules of procedure, because I can't have the second head of the parliamentary group in power calling me here without me having the right to answer it. It is simply neither in the spirit of democratic dialogue nor in the spirit of parliamentaryism. I call on you to correct this failure and to allow me the right to reply, because we, too, who are not part of the theatre performance between Cedomir Jovanovic and SNS and the SPS as coalition partners, must be entitled to the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50018	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed, and you know for yourself that you must participate and be there when it comes to the debate that you can absolutely use the right of this Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: I answered. ) You could have asked for a call via Skype, really. (Bosko Obradovic: I answered here. It is not right and it is not right to insult the MPs of the people, or Cedomir Jovanovic, or anyone else, and to create such an atmosphere. Come, participate in the debate, you will receive everything that follows you as a member of the Parliament and head of the Parliament Club in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50019	So, the previous speaker is, as far as I know about politics, Gilasov's coordinator for the National Assembly and he is practically the head of all the parliamentary groups that make up Gilas' Council for Serbia. Mr. Coordinator, if you remember, dear fellow MPs, the day after Alexander Vukic, as Prime Minister, opened a factory in Vladic's Han, photographed in front of that factory and said – when I came to power, we will close that factory because it is harmful that in Vladic's Han workers, i.e. the citizens of Vlad's Han, work in a Turkish company. It is now their official policy of the entire Alliance for Serbia. So that's what they say every day in the stands they maintain. However, they have been visited a little bit by the stands, which is why they are nervous, but they speak in their stands, which they hold throughout Serbia, that they will close every factory opened by the government led by Aleksandar Vukic or the government led by Anna Brnabic. It is the official policy of Dragan Gilas, and the exponent of that policy in the National Assembly is Mr. Coordinator, who is the head of all those who are members of the Alliance for Serbia. I don't know how I offended Mr. Coordinator. I just reminded him, him and the MPs, the citizens of Serbia, which is their official policy. Dragan Gilas and co-ordinator's official policy is the key to the lock. This is what they were doing in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 to 2012. The official economic policy of co-ordinators and Dragan Gilas is the key in both locks in Vladica Han and Loznica, and in Subotica, and in Belgrade, and in Novi Sad, and in Vranja, and in Leskovec, and wherever we opened the factory, that factory to close. Why? Nothing in Serbia should work. The only companies to work are Dragan Gilas. He's the only one who can get rich. He's the only one who can name the money. No one else can work in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50020	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50021	It's an insane economic policy and we in the National Assembly are going to talk and we don't care who the coordinator is and who Dragan Gilas is going to send to speak for him in five minutes, but against this devastating economic policy called the key in the lock we're going to talk about every day and every moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50022	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50023	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 103, 108, 109. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your tolerance for the opposition MPs, but in the future try to apply some measure when someone from the pub enters, the malls with the handle lifts the Rules of Procedure and says – now I'm going to talk a little bit. You have to sanction that arrogant behavior, especially because it's about a man who's for everything. So he is against the EU, and is sitting with those who are for the EU, even sending their delegates to the EU. Here's a photo from the European Parliament. He sends some people there to try to reach out to the European Parliament, and here he is against the EU. It's a man who's for the Russians, and he's sitting with Gilas who's against the Russians. He is for the church and sits next to Borko Stefanovic who guitars everyone next to the burned cross. He's against the Masons, and they're the Masons. So, in the leadership, his closest associate is a masseuse. He's against the United States, and Scott put him in here. He's for Cyrillic, and he's waving banners on the Latin. He stands for the poor and serves the tycoon Gilas. He sees nothing but Gilas. Don't fight poverty, fight for the rich, for Gilas. He is against foreign banks, and sits with those who, did so, Mr. Jovanovic, sold all the banks to foreigners. He's for media freedoms, and he'd ban a lot of electronic media. He's for democracy, and he's forbidden a man to speak at all in a room in the National Assembly. He's for a strong army, and he's sitting next to those who disarmed the army. He's against the tycoon, and he serves the tycoon. He does not serve the state of Serbia, he serves only Dragan Gilas. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50024	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50025	I thank the chairman. First of all, Article 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, regarding article 106, because I think you have allowed Bosko Obradović to abuse parliamentary powers in the most harsh way possible, and I ask that it be sanctioned in the future in the way that the Rules of Procedure foresees. It's the least you can do. Neither is Bosko Obradovic Robin Hood as he thinks he is, nor is this Sherwood Forest Assembly, which he thinks he is. In this way, it humiliates us, humiliates the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, demeaning all those who follow this Assembly as a home in which democracy should rule, not passion, pride and all that it demonstrates, to call it, Mr Bosko Obradovic II, what is very important to point out is that the SPS does not pave anyone who attacks and tramples with and on the diplomacy of the Serbian state, extremely successful diplomacy, and who is solidarity with Kosovo's policy which is directly contrary to all that Serbia is doing on one successful road to the EU. Therefore, Bosko Obradovic, at least that should be known if he is not known clearly to inform him. As for conduct in the congregation, the Socialists will not teach anyone manners or education. It's from home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50026	Thank you, dear colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Cedomir Jovanovic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50027	Article 107. You know what, we talked here. I don't think we should be offended to point out each other's differences in this way. I'm not in the congregation every day, and this is exactly why I'm not here. Because this is a situation you can't agree with, and there's not much you can do. That I'm involved here in witch hunting, branding people, threatening anyone who thinks differently? Not that it doesn't occur to me to do it, but I will fight it. You are the chairman, and the fact that someone has provided for the right to breach the Rules of Procedure cannot be used as a right to insult which is merely an expression of impotence, not a proof of the fact that someone is right. What does Bosko Obradovic have for me in hurting the Rules of Procedure to lecture on who's with whom? I guess it's clear to everyone in this country that I've never been, nor will I be with those who walk down the street, so they're beating someone just because they love each other differently. Those who love Serbia until the last kopecka, those with no political principle. I told you, this is a budget debate, which is why I came here. Hold me for as long as I need to respond in the replica to three exposures, both Minister Mali and you, Mr. Martinovic, and you, Mr. Jovanovic. I'll say good-bye. And you'll be easy without me and so will I without you. But don't, please, if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, let it be said. That in whatever way I'm building my relationships with anyone in this room is my right. And if someone had branded me as a traitor, so I'll forget that this is the Assembly, I'll act the way Mr. Wolin often likes to point out. It's not here, so now it doesn't make sense. I won't set you on fire, don't be afraid of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50028	Thank you, colleague Jovanic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You know who we're dealing with once, and as chairman, we're dealing with. I warned my colleague Obradovic, respecting your debate on the subject and which was very correct, so I believe I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50029	The Honorable Chairman, I'd like to point out to Article 27 that the President of the National Assembly is taking care of the application of this Rules of Procedure and thinks that...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50030	That member has already been used, counterpart Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50031	Great. Then Article 108 to take order at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly. The same is true of you and your failure, and I have pointed out that the failure in the matter of Article 104 was. And you did not give a satisfactory explanation, and after that, the president of the SNS parliamentary group spoke again and confirmed that he had misread all of my presentations so far. I think it's amazing that you can't give me two minutes' rights to the replica, and that's all I'm asking here. There's no rudeness here. I'm asking for my right, my right to a different opinion, my right to a replica, my right to a word, and that's what you're questioning. Be careful, when Aleksandar Martinovic says that we are closing all foreign factories in Serbia, we never said that. That's a lie. Look, you have to give me a chance to tell you what we actually said on this subject, not to close foreign factories, but to support domestic economy and agriculture instead of foreign investors, so we don't get what happened to the German company "Serfud" in Smederev to leave our country without taking advantage of our subsidies. We better have those 300 million dinars, as much as it was then given to defile the entire hall of the German company from the town of Smedereva and the loans taken by the town of Smederevo, gave to some domestic companies or for domestic economy and agriculture. You can see the difference in interpretation. That's why I have the right to reply, because he misread me and we never went anywhere and shut down foreign factories. We were merely pointing out that instead of foreign investors, the same money from the taxpayers and citizens of Serbia should be given to domestic economy and agriculture and, most importantly, to nationalise everything that has been sold to the buraser schemes with SNS, such as the PKK and RTB Bor, and to pay the money back to the investor... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50032	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. I still don't think you have the right and you didn't have the right to reply. Be in the O.R., participate in the debate, no problem at all. As Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, a man of three, four lines, properly qualified to debate. Act like it, there's no problem. It's perfectly normal. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. 9 Thank you. Alexander Martinovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50033	Article 106. I just said what all Serbian citizens saw, that the official policy of the Alliance for Serbia, whose head is Dragan Djilas, and its co-ordinator and head of all MPs belonging to the famous Alliance for Serbia, Bosko Obradovic, is to close all factories in Serbia that have been opened since 2014 until today. As proof, I reminded the citizens of Serbia of that episode from Vladic's Han when Mr. Coordinator was the day after Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic opened the factory to Vladic's Han and said - this factory should be closed. It's their official policy. When they talk about domestic economy, they actually think of only one man, and that is Dragan Gilas, only he should be given subsidies, only he should be allowed to work, only his companies should be allowed to operate on the Serbian market, and all other companies, whether domestic or foreign, should be shut down and workers sent to the streets. We've seen that before, they did that when they were in power until 2012. There, Mr. Coordinator, you have a little problem. Dragan Gilas is not a clean domestic businessman. You know why? Half of his company is registered in Cyprus, Caymans, Virgin Islands, Marseilles, etc. So that he is not a form of domestic creation as you imagine him to be. In part, it is a domestic businessman by recalibrating all DS directors after 2000, presenting themselves as the exponent of the then Prime Minister, that they must be advertised through his firm "Darrektmedia" and other media houses he held. In the end, the former director of DS Miodrag Kostic also spoke of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50034	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50035	I'm done. He personally complained to Zoran Djindjic that Dragan Gilas was recalibrating him, and you continued with the racket policies only if you won the elections by some chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50036	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Maja Gojković as a promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50037	Yeah. Thank you. I would ask you, since we have the same rights as the MPs to talk about the draft laws, but of course the Rules of Procedure, to try to get back on the agenda, to really talk about important laws, especially the draft bill on the budget, which is the most important bill that a government can propose to the Serbian Parliament and which is actually a picture of future life for 2019 of all citizens of our country. I'm a proposer of another law that is of no minor importance, but it was obviously necessary to read it to discuss it. I guess someone's going to do it in the follow-up session. But I would also like to draw attention to the manner of some MPs, especially Bosko Obradovic's last MPs, which is why we stopped the course of the session, stopped, the chairman, please, from taking the Rules of Procedure and reading it. It's not hard. To get a little out of article 27, and I don't know, which he's learned yet, just the first attitude, and whenever he thinks he needs to steal a little more time than the citizens have given him in the elections, then wave to the Rules of Procedure, and he says, "Now I'm going to say I'm going to insult half the parliament, and I'm going to say what I want, whenever I want, and I'm going to stick the labels to the members of the majority here in parliament, and I'm going to tell opposition politicians. I don't know if you're jealous of some, but I'd love it if you grew up to be like someone who's been here for 28 years, or if you're sorry we won't be in the ruling majority. I want to remind the MPs here, oh, or no oh, and that's true, you beat me, to convince me in my party to try to convince the SNS to take you into the ruling majority, so you've been making chaos here, so you've brought in a rock, so you've probably broken some head, so here you've ripped the microphones and that's the letter by Maria Janjusevic. You did everything you could to keep your attention. And it's not working. We don't want you. That's what you need to be clear about. Serbia's advanced Boška Obradovica and the Dveri parliamentary group are not considering the pedestal year's plan for our political action in the future. You're not on the agenda of what to do to you. You're not. As for Articles 103 and 104, it needs to be studied well, but it's already a matter of intellectual abilities, obviously, or political surfaces, let me be something lighter. On the line, it's just the president and the chairman. Dot. Nothing by force, nothing at Bosko Obradovic's scream. Nothing. You can't, yes, with your scream and your insolence to force the chairman to give you a replica. Position 4. Read it. And to you occasionally, when you show up here, it doesn't give you the right to yell at the legislator, and under Article 3 paragraph 8, if you've ever come to your post 8, there are sanctions when you abuse your right to do so. You can't keep an MP here some, go in a little bit 11 to 12, and then in the evening when something's a little bit of a transmission, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm talking about whatever I want. So, please, and chair you and anyone who runs the sessions, use the Free Rules of Procedure, because Serbian citizens don't want to listen to about the stones, and I don't know, about the observations of Bosko Obradovic, except for the budget today and about the laws we have with the budget. They complained on their own that he had 62 points. Yeah, he's 62, he needs to find one of those 62 and talk about it. Don't make up the subject today. And if the LDP is with us in the coalition or not, that's nonsense. I'm not going to defend anyone here, nor am I interested in the opposition action of any MP, but the Devere MP group, really, draw one line, don't beat anyone here in parliament, don't attack journalists, don't throw stones at us, don't bring stones into the Assembly, don't make up any themes. We're not thinking about you, we're not going to go into parliament with the thugs, and we're not going into coalition with those who are falsely representing themselves, false nationalists, false child care and families, false women care, false care of the poor here in the country. What are you going to do, with Vuk Jeremic and Gilas, and like you, your heart is breaking up with citizens who have a lower standard and who make ends meet? What about you and Vuk Jeremic who was taking a state plane to go to Wimbledon to watch Novak Djokovic's tennis match. Go to the Foreign Ministry and see how they had to, as modernly said, and I would say street, iron the papers as it happened a month earlier and invent a meeting of Vuk Jeremic with the parliamentarians of the British parliament, as if they were talking about the EU, a country that intended to leave the EU. Vuk Jeremic as the country's foreign minister who only then began a bid for EU membership. Or with Boris Tadic, who also took a state plane, I don't make it up, you go to the Foreign Ministry, so when you follow us, you can see in the air service what your coalition partners did. He took a plane to go to Parndorf to buy gifts in December. There, let them tell you what the members of the Foreign Ministry were doing and how they were struggling to make up some visits, something. When he left the official meeting, he says -- why I don't have an escort to Parndorf, so they explained that Austria is a nice, civilized state and simply when someone wants to shop, they don't spend money on the police to follow. They're your coalition partners, and you're acting here, you're very concerned about the closed factories they've closed, they've put these locks in 12 years of their rule. So please, it is better for you, for the citizens of Serbia, it is best that we return to the topic and discuss the 2019 draft budget. As far as I can tell, after 12.00 hours, you'll be even worse off, because you'll hear the data on how low unemployment is in this country, during the rule of Alexander Vukic, SNS and all of our coalition partners. You won't be well, you'll give up the discussion of the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50038	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50039	I called in earlier for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that is why my debate will be compared to what happened before Maja Gojkovic spoke. Article 27. Position 1 you know the political struggle in parliament is completely legitimate, and even when it comes to local elections in Doljevci, Luciani, Kula, Kladova, but the problem of this SIS coordinator is that they have failed to collect signatures in Doljevci, in the Doljevci, in the Luciani, in Kladovo, or in Kla, in Kladovo, and then they say that there is no regular election, and in Luciani where they have managed to collect signatures is. Their problem is that in this campaign they realized that the people in Luciani will not. Bosko Obradovic, as the co-ordinator of the SIS agency, has previously been represented there as a man of the people, nationalists, favored church etc. Now, when he came there, and when a dozen men came to his stands, they asked him, and what are you going to say to the people of Dragač, how many people have slain the Chetnik? There's no answer to that question. They ask him in Dragac, and what are you going to do in the coalition with this grandson of Pozder, Vuk Jeremic, who disgusts the peasants? What are you going to say, the Ljatician in the coalition with this Dragan Gilas, who has probably never been to Luciani, except now they're going to take him by hand because he's funding their campaign, because he's got a lot of, a lot of money. The question between him and Vuk Jeremic is who has more. They ask him – what are you gonna do about the SIS coordinators in Luciani, what are you representing as your campaign? People are afraid that even the little money they get in the campaign will spend on some new suits, shoes and shirts, and now winter jackets, it needs to be restored.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50040	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Igor Becic. Here you go, colleague Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50041	Dear Chairman, I appeal to Article 109. I think it's quite clear that Mr. Coordinator didn't come by accident to the O.R., coming down from the office, but he got a warrant from Mr. Gilas that he had to distract himself from the scandal he made in the City Assembly, where he entered into Mr. Vesic's face and threatened him – you'll pay me everything. It is clear that Mr. Coordinator must protect Jeremic, that traitorous bastard who... People's MPs resent it. I only mention the words Mr. Jeremic uses on Twitter.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50042	My friend Becic, just a little terminology, get her in line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50043	Here we have his tweet, where he uses that word, where he says -- as much as he's a criminal and a murderer, Ramush Haradinaj would never dare agree in an authorial article for "Washington Post". So he offered to recognise Kosovo, a traitorous bastard. I'm just saying what Mr. Jeremic wrote on Twitter and tweeted, that he's a traitorous bastard, Mr. Jeremic for me. So, these are all the things that Mr. Coordinator has to do in this room, saying in his performances, to distract himself from it, what Mr. Gilas is doing in the Hall of the City Assembly, what Mr., I would no longer call him Mr. Jeremic, who is doing tweeting and quoting and using words - traitorous bastard. I say he's a traitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50044	Thank you, colleague Becic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) Mihailo Jokic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50045	Please chair, if I may say something. It is up to you that you are the chairman, and you must give him a warning, whether he is on the left or on the right. People's MPs are getting it. ) Petrovic, please, you are a nice man, the President of the Court, etc. Please. Here, you see, evidence of non-culture. You're very rarely here and you throw away, and I'm here all the time and I never throw away, and your age doesn't feel like it. Let me say what I mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50046	Comrade Yokic, go ahead. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50047	I can't talk, so this isn't a Sabbath. What's this about? It'll never be because of them. What's this about? This is such a grateful topic where the opposition could attack the position, but you didn't read the material. Take it, for the first time, there's been an articulation of social gross product and you don't know the difference between social gross product and social national product. Only on that subject and on that articulation could you attack the position for ten days and every one written there, every honor the Minister has done, I will if I get a chance to discuss it, about the deflator, about the primary fiscal deficit and the difference, etc. These are the things you could discuss here to kill us, but you didn't read the material.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50048	Thank you, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50049	Please, just one more moment, and ask and say that time is not enough for you. I'd cut your time short, even shorter time should be.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50050	Thank you. We're going back to the subject, of course, and the budget. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in voting day, Dr. Jokic? (No) (Bosko Obradovic: Replica! ) Maja Gojkovic, please. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica or Rules of Procedure, ten minutes are calling me. So how? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50051	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50052	Can you just calm down so we can keep working normally? Don't yell, it doesn't make sense. Take it easy, you'll get your turn. Maja Gojkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50053	I don't know, Bosko Obradovic woke up late, I guess on Dedinj, where he has an apartment a little longer asleep, how do I know? So much for him as a representative of the orphanage, who came to temporary work in Belgrade, so he found an apartment right there. I wonder how much rent is up there? It's not just a problem. I wanted Article 106 to draw attention to the MPs, that is, the chairman of position 2 so that no one could interrupt the speaker except the National Assembly president. Item 3 is even better for all of them who shout here and do not allow MPs to speak, both to Mr Jokic and Becic and not to be allowed to throw and distract speakers, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. I don't see what the problem is that MP Becic read the tweet of an extraparliamentary politician, because he is not an MP here and has not participated in the elections. When he took part he sat there and gave most of it when it was right for strangers he was now pretending to be something, and that was Vuk Jeremic, he was beautifully tweeting what he tweeted, he wasn't ashamed of it, and he said that no matter how much crime and murderer Ramush Haradinaj would never agree with the author's article for "Washington Post", they were close, they probably wrote the article together, and then he told the president of the state where he lives, he said, so his address, and Vucic offered to recognise Kosovo, a traitor bastard. What's so terrible about Igor Becic being also a non-parliamentary politician who dreams of coming back here to these benches, saying he's a traitor? What's the problem? Why are you yelling? He's not your president. I don't know, it is some coalition partner, you took it, I guess, to help him out a little because he can't go over the censorship, that someone here is falsely representing him, because the citizens didn't vote for him in the previous election. Do not endanger freedom of speech if it is Vuk Jeremic and if Becic says he is a traitorous bastard. And now here to make a consensus and ask the question as chairman, who agrees with Igor Becic's position, I think it's up to the bench that's made everyone uncomfortable. Therefore, do not endanger freedom of speech. We will write letters to Strasbourg, Brussels, as you write the same, and we will complain about what you do. We learn from you, it's no problem at all. In the next term, it looks like the colonel won't have anyone to write because the people won't give you a single vote, I'm convinced. With this kind of action, you should tell the president of the country that this is and that you prefer Ramush Haradinaj to the president of Serbia, who was voted 56%. People's MPs are getting it. ) Well, just a little while longer, you're in politics for another 20 years, so you'll understand, too, dear colleague. There's some hope for you. Please, 106, 107 are very clear. Just apply the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50054	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. The word is Ceda Jovanovic, right on the line. Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. What's this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50055	Mr. Mali, I've listened very carefully, I haven't forgotten what you said, although it's been a long time, and I'm not sure that MPs can even follow our debate anymore, just the measure of abolishing the ban on public sector employment. We're fighting for young people who have a problem finding work. It's not a market measure, there's no competition. The International Monetary Fund is also seeking its abolition and you have postponed it for a year. I think it's bad and you're offering an argument as to why you insist on it. As for the government's mention of the period in which I was and for which I am taking responsibility, together with Prime Minister Zivkovic, the government led Serbia for six months, the government of Zoran Djindjic for two and a half years, I take responsibility as a government, and for the previous 18 years we have been talking about, I take responsibility as a politician. I'm responsible for not stopping something bad. But you, Mr. Jovanovic, have come from a party that has been in power for the last 18 years. When you mention Magnochrom to me, it is privatized during your time of power. When you mention the failed factories, they were privatized during your time of government. When you talk about the right of someone who's privatized something to treat their property the way they think they should, you don't understand the law, and the lawyer, the one who bought something, has the absolute right to do what he thinks he should, he's also in harm's way, the problem is if something isn't paid. What are we going to do with Galenika? Do you want me to tell you what the performances were in 2008, when you and your party took over and why today in the pharmaceutical industry the state looks like to us, as if we were the wild tribes that came down from Carpathia yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50056	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50057	I'm sorry, I won't be able to hear the answers, because I have an appointment for a press conference, I have to do something for my people in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50058	Thank you for that and for letting me know. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50059	I am now reporting on the basis of Article 27(1) and immediately announcing the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 107(1), because you had just done a violation of the Rules of Procedure because you gave the replica to Cedomir Jovanovic. The fact that he has some private obligations, that's his thing, he said he doesn't care about anything here, that it's just passing by when he wants it, and you, I say, according to the Rules of Procedure, you give him the word. Don't do that, you can't actually do that. On the other hand, Bosko Obradovic appears, of course, without a basis to replicate until a debate on the Rules of Procedure is concluded. How will you explain to him now, what does he have to say, that he is not nice to anyone, so you give Chad your word, and you do not give it to him? You know, your old sympathies and old love political not here, please. You were once in the coalition, now you're in someone else's, but either way you're the chairman, and you have to make sure that every MP has to have the same treatment. Now I'm asking for the next two minutes of the Rules of Procedure, for what I wanted to call you earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50060	He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50061	He can't? This is what I'm asking for to be made known, because you've just broken this, this one just now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50062	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Okay, I don't think so. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Okay, you want the National Assembly to declare itself in voting day. In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50064	Here comes this Ljotićevićo Bosko Obradovic. I just got back, Mr. Marinkovic, because the public of Serbia needs to know what kind of man it is and the political profile. Indeed, this hypocrisis in his head is something that no one else can accept, and especially the people of Dragacev as a whole, means Guch and Lucian, where his pro-Western treasonous alliance has run for the upcoming local elections. He needed Gilasu and his team to explain, before he convinced them that he had some kind of support there, that the Latvians, whose follower and whose ideology he swears, committed the most monstrous crimes in the precious villages. I can't right now, Mr. Marinkovic, because I don't have time for the Rules of Procedure, I reported for violation of Parliament's dignity, to read all the names of the people who were killed, but I will tell you that the Latvians, with the German occupiers, so on their orders, had their associates who went from house to house, talked about who and when to be liquidated. Although the Chetniks Draža Mihajlovic were involved in the fight in mid-September 1943, they managed to defend most of the people of Dragachev, Ljotics and German fascists killed and slaughtered many people in the most monstrous way. In Lower Dulj, Oslanica, in the village of Lisa, there is a whole expertise in these crimes in the village of Negroshin, which is called the "dairy Black Days". It is truly amazing that such a man claims to be anywhere in the place and in the area where he normally comes from, where I am from, and that he can appear with any of his traitoric clicks, from that alliance and say that the locals of Guce, Dragacheva, Luciana, will live better if they come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50065	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50066	They can kidnap, steal, rob, finish, because before they started killing people, the Ljoticians and the German fascists were as hostages from the beginning of 1941 to 1944 breaking into Dragacheva, as Bosko Obradovic now enters... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50067	Thank you. I have to interrupt. I've extended 40 seconds. It's interesting what you're saying, but time is limited. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50068	That's right, Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, because you have again allowed the dignity of this home to be insulted through the replica. I can understand that a dramatologist tends to be a good lawyer, unfortunately, he did it very badly today. I don't have the tendency to be a dramatist, but I just want the facts to point to something that the citizens need to know. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic was only looking for an alibi today, and he did not answer any questions. Commenting that someone who acquires private property is free to do whatever they want, it's enough to indicate how much he knows. Getting private property can be two ways. One is legal, therefore, according to the law, and the other is theft or crime. To this second, Mr Jovanovic did not give an answer, not because he does not know, but because he has defended himself from what was done since 2001. The last question that was asked yesterday also in this home by Cedomir Jovanovic was not worth the answer, and that is the question – why were the sugar candies sold for only three euros? Does this mean legally obtaining the assets of enterprises that have been trading with social capital? Where are those money that's supposed to come from privatisation procedures in this country's financial flows? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50069	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50070	As far as it seems, at first glance, that we may have gotten away from the subject and that we are not talking about the basic proposal, which is the budget, or the Budget Law, believe me, we are not. Because we, MPs, are users of the budget. We also receive a salary from the budget based on the behaviour of some MPs, such as this Ljoticvac Bosko Obradovic and his wasteful behaviour, Serbian citizens think all MPs are. None of the MPs and none of the political parties, except his, had a party at a capital club in Belgrade, an exclusive club, in which only some stars can make. And that's how he actually did the money laundering. None of the MPs, except Ljoticevic Bosko Obradovic, live on Dedinj. Now he's going to Luciane and he's talking about how he's the People's MP of Moravia County, and he lives on Santa. It's a little far. But I don't know the answer to the question of how did he get into that villa on Santa? If he bought it, how could he? If he's on the lease, he's got five kids, and thank God and let the kids be alive and well, but from the parliamentary salary that someone can take a villa on Santa to rent, it's just impossible. As much as there is a share in Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic's capital, we should also know that, above all, we should draw public attention to that. These days, Vuk Jeremic came to the public's attention because it was finally revealed that exactly everything we talked about him and that he had won millions of suspicious ways, from Kuwait. Here, he's already been on the stand, although the question is whether it's a testimony, we'll see what happens next. We, the Serbian Radical Party, published two books "Vikliks Reports to Me", the first part and the second part a few years ago. I worked for one of these books forewords, and because of this preface, I read many Vikilix depes that relate, first of all, to Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. I'm done. I've got to keep this up some next time, but let me just finish this sentence. Someone who has openly worked and talked about US ambassadors lobbying, that NATO is a lobbyist in Serbia, who, respected citizens of Dragacheva, is now co-ordinator of Bosko Obradovic and brings him there to try to take votes from Dragacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50071	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) We keep working. The word is Anna Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50072	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the main feature of the budget ahead of us is that it is developmental. This is important to us from the Socialist Movement because it pours confidence and says – The development budget increases the gross social product and allows those social aspects of the budget, which are important to us, to be achieved for sure. When we say social aspects, we say – increasing the standards of citizens, increasing wages, increasing pensions and various social measures for which we as a party stand daily, in whatever portfolio we are in. Yesterday we heard that this ruling coalition was not good to the military and other security forces. I think a lot of people seem to mind that last year's budget was bigger than it's ever been before, and this year it's even bigger than it was the previous year. What does that mean? It means that we invest in weapons, invest in people and allow Serbia to finally be a military neutral country, as it should be. On the other hand, we have the same ones who spoke yesterday, who from 2000 to 2012, together with their mentors destroyed weapons, destroyed armies, brought it down to the lowest level, and promised that Serbia would only have civil defence. But that didn't work out for them. I must, for the sake of the public and for the sake of the citizens, stress what we have done and what is done for the military and security forces, so let them decide whether to do well and how we do with the military. So, 2017 in December, wages increased by 10%. As of 1 January 2019, a 9% increase follows. They say we are not doing well, and the average salary, despite the reduction due to fiscal consolidation, is 20% higher in 2018 than in 2012. For the first time, solidarity aid was introduced to births of nearly 50,000 dinars. The award of monetary rewards for stays at the Serbian Army's facilities has been secured. Contracts with economic operators have been concluded, which allow for the benefit of all members of security that they can buy products and services cheaper. Money receipts and scholarships are increasing for soldiers, students and cadets. Apartments are being built, etc., etc. I don't have time to read everything we've done for the army, but citizens can judge who's telling the truth and who's telling the truth and standing by their people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50073	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50074	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us are very important points of the agenda whose adoption will greatly affect citizens' lives. We are presented with a budget that is realistic and developmental, which is designed to monitor the needs of citizens, as well as to monitor the Serbian government's plans. It will provide a better standard of living through increased wages and pensions and higher investment in capital investments and infrastructure facilities, as well as through the allocation of higher amounts to improve public administration and health. By analysing the budget, we can conclude that there are several elements that are important, and those that are most important are certainly improving the living standard of the population. There are other elements in terms of capital investments and raising the competitiveness of our economy. And in 2018 we have positive labour market movements, increased business activity, strong investment cycle, positive employment and self-employment measures, and all these are facts that have led to some results. And the results are that, for example, according to the latest data on the National Employment Service records, there are as many as 11% less unemployed than in the same month last year. What we could hear these days from my colleagues and colleagues across the street, who were mostly in power until 2012, are criticisms directed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to ministers to tell the truth, to present facts that are not true. Ministers present verifiable facts. I would like to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they are not allowing themselves to be manipulated by some parliamentary representatives of the Alliance for Serbia, because this is the option that has recently appeared and which leads exclusively negative policy, the policy of attacking Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government, because they have nothing positive to say about their policy. That's why I'm going to read what the ministers read, and as far as salary increases are concerned, which is that in the public sector it's going to be seven to 12% higher, in public-communal enterprises by five, for doctors there will be a 10% increase in salaries, for 9% in education, for the military and the police, also by 9%. For capital investment, 220 billion dinars are planned. These include major projects, such as the Moravski Corridor, Preljina-Požega road, a tour around Belgrade, the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, as well as new schools, kindergartens and hospitals that will be raised throughout Serbia, as well as subsidies for farmers, which are very important. When we talk about increasing the competitiveness of our economy, it will be done through a reduction in the burden of profit, so, by eliminating the contribution to unemployment on the employer's burden and through tax incentives that will attract new investors. Unemployment will be reduced, there will be additional inflows into the budget through taxes and contributions, and thus we will have the opportunity to increase wages and pensions. For the next period from 2019 to 2021, measures are planned to maintain fiscal stability and those measures that will work to further reduce public debt participation, up to below 50% of GDP. Tax policy will go towards further alignment with European Union directives. The fiscal consolidation measures have created conditions for increasing capital investment, eliminating pension and salary crisis measures, and thus the living standard of our population will improve. This is exactly how the proposed solutions are a sense of security for us who have more detailedly analysed the budget, and we have to pass on that feeling to the citizens, to be sure of our salaries and pensions, to make sure that social protection is good. We must convey this assurance that it will no longer be repeated until 2012, when all this was under question. So it is clear that the government is doing everything possible to make citizens better and that Serbia is further progressing. The SNS parliamentary group will support all these proposals that are ahead of us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50075	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word has an Ana Charapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50076	I thank the chairman, respected ministers with associates, today we have a set of really great legal solutions, today we have a set of legal solutions aimed at new investments, an even higher level of jobs in the coming period, and our goal is to reduce the unemployment rate from 11.9% in the second quarter of 2018 to even lower. In addition to harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is maximumly committed to facilitating business to economic operators in our country, and this is witnessed by the fact that through the digitisation measures we fully facilitate business, both domestic and foreign companies operating with us. But also by reducing the burden of the economy by 1% per contribution rate that is from 63 to 62%, we will manage to secure savings from 12 billion dinars in 2019. So the economy will have 12 billion dinars of free funds for new investments and the expansion of production capacities, which brings new jobs with it. The goal of our government in the coming period is also for the Republic of Serbia to be in the first 30 countries on the debt business list of the World Bank. Why am I saying this? Well, because we're being placed on that list is extremely significant. So far, we have made remarkable progress for as many as 45 seats and Serbia is better placed than the other 142 countries on the dumming business list, and I will remind the total and the country's 190 races. We are better than both Croatia and Albania and BiH, etc. Serbia is today an absolute leader in the region by attracting foreign investors. For example, in 2012 there were 12,000 people working in German companies, in 2018, so 52,600 people work in German companies this year. It is also the same case with Turkish and Chinese companies. Six years ago there were several hundred people working today on tens of thousands of our citizens. Well, just as far as we look at the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget, it is quite clear how economically strong and strong Serbia is today compared to six years ago. This means that the public finances are fully stabilised. The draft budget law stipulates that in 2019, it will have a deficit of 0.4% of GDP, however, members of the Fiscal Council on this issue are optimistic and predict that in 2019 we will have a surplus in the budget, which means that our country is four years ahead of schedule. The draft budget law continues to provide for economic growth for 2019, which is really fantastic. Also, the Budget Law defines the means to increase salaries for budgetary users for employees, i.e. members of the SB force, for educators, for workers of medical professions, for employees of scientific and research work and other budgetary users, at a rate of seven to 12%, which means a higher home budget for the citizens, and for the economy, or at the level of the state, we will have a significantly higher aggregate demand. In 2019, we also have an absolute amount of 10.9 billion dinars of more defined grants, and that is for agriculture, tourism, Serbian corridors, 30% more funds are defined for capital investments, i.e. capital projects. It is an interesting fact that in 2019, we have 4.6 billion dinars with a smaller transfer of PIO funds based on the missing funds, with an increase in pensions that we had in 2018 and which will continue to grow in 2019. So, a smaller transfer from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we have an increase in pensions, which means we've achieved fantastic results when it comes to the collection of contributions. Not only do we start the projects in 2018 and earlier years, but in 2019 we start with the realization of new projects, which is the construction of highways E761, highway E763, E80, then Belgrade gondola, investment in railways, investment in roads, hospitals, etc. As for the public debt, yesterday we had the opportunity to hear precisely from the finance minister, Mr. Cynthia Malloy, in which way the previous government owed us. They took so many unfavourable loans that on the basis of their loans in 2015 alone, we paid 115 billion dinars on the basis of interest. Since we need 200m euros to build 60 wastewater treatment plants, this means that we were able to build 312 wastewater treatment plants for the funds we paid for. So, 115 billion dinars, that's your entire pension fund in one year. So there are pensions from our pensioners. Also, I want to take this opportunity to congratulate all members of the government on fantastic results and to thank President Aleksandr Vukic for his unreserved support to all members of the government. Serbia has regained its reputation in the region and the world today and Serbia is the pride of all its citizens. The SNS parliamentary group will be happy to support a set of all legislative solutions on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50077	Thank you. The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50078	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I have with you to share a good and important news that applies to the citizens of Serbia. So, according to the report of the Statistics Institute that we just received and which has become public, the unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia in the third quarter of 2018 is 11.3%. So, the historic minimum, I'll remind you, in April 2012, the unemployment rate in Serbia was 25.5%. This, on the one hand, is an indicator of the responsible policy implemented by the government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, as early as 2014. On the other hand, it's a great responsibility for all of us to go on with this kind of policy. The 2019 budget contains precisely measures aimed at fostering further growth in our economy and thus reducing unemployment. On the other hand, information that is also very important, if you look at the employment rate, and we're looking at it here from 2014, until 2018, we can see, in 2014, the total employees in Serbia were 2,559,400 people. According to third quarter data this year, 2,929,370 people were employed. So, 370 new employees in the last four years, I'm sorry, 370,000 new employees in the last four years. This is a very important result, 370,000 families who have found the opportunity to earn bread in the past. Another confirmation of the justification of our economic policy, that new factories are being opened, that we are fighting for Serbia to be a factor of peace and stability in the region, to change the image of our country, to work and build our infrastructure and to fight for every new job and domestic and foreign investor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50079	The word is from MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50080	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers with associates, respected citizens, I will just tell you that Serbia will look at the budget that creates the future of citizens for 2019. You see what you're going to do with it, you're the majority, you're going to vote whatever you want in this assembly. It's us that you don't want to debate the budget seriously, obviously wanting to hide a lot of things. You yourself are not proud of everything that is written in the budget or what Serbia will look like in 2019. It is my fault that Ana Brnabic believes more in the Cyprus budget than in Serbia's budget, which is very embarrassing for one country and its citizens who want their prime minister to hear what the country will look like next year. Serbia's prime minister has decided, since she does not believe in this budget, to attend a joint session of the Cypriot government, and this is the most important law of the year and the Prime Minister is not there. That's what it says about you, that's what it says about what's in this budget. What we have experienced is that the private sector, which with all workers working in the private sector, is crushed, humiliated, humiliated. The whole state is financed from this non-private sector, which barely cramps in debt, burdened with parafiscal charges. In the private sector, only five tycoons of nearby SNS can get jobs. Only five Serbian citizens know five tycoons in this country, their names, their companies. They can only participate in private business in Serbia. Everyone else serves to drain everything they make in a year. In the state-run sector financed from such a tortured private sector, only five people from the SNS summit can participate in tenders and only five people from the top of your party can come to the job, they can provide themselves with millions and millions of euros in jobs. Of course, those who represent the mafia in northern Kosovo today are among them. This budget continues to finance both them and their interests. When we talk about 2019, then you need to make it clear and loud that it's an election year, that it's going to be an extraordinary parliamentary election because this is an election budget, a budget where you're trying to get someone, a soldier or a cop to tell them you've cut him 10% of his salary, and now you're paying him 9% of his salary, so it's less than 1% in the global budget, and you're saying that this salary is never higher, so you've cut the logs to the soldiers, so count it into this pay cut, and then calculate the fuel price, calculate the basic supplies that have been collected over the last year. How do you live in Serbia today? Today we're funding this budget with the Army, the police, the Security Service. I'm glad and I want the Serbian police officer to have, I want the Serb soldier to have, I want every operative in BIA, VBA, VOA to have, that he can feed and educate his children, that he can support his family, and every time I vote when they have, but I can't support the budget that allocates funds to that narrow part of the executives that your party has installed, who abuse their duties, who abuse the name of the service and the Serb uniform. I can't support that because those abuses were in 2018. Oliver Ivanovic was killed this year. This year will be famous for it. One of the leaders of the opposition was killed and the BIA did nothing to protect him, and today we reward her and those who lead her. It's an honor for those who are professionally doing their job, and it's also a repressive apparatus in the service of the party in power today. They abuse their functions, they monitor and listen to both Serbian citizens and the opposition in Serbia today. Today, senior BIA leaders are rewarded for saying that we are a threat to Serbia and national security. Today you are calling for the murder of Vuk Jeremic and all of you remain silent, you and your MPs. What was done to Borko Stefanovic is just a sequel to what happened to Oliver Ivanovic. That's what Serbia will look like in 2019. This investment in the repressive apparatus and the abuse of the repressive apparatus are scandalous. Never the elections will be more illegal, more unfree than the ones that are being debated for April next year, and you will clearly and loudly tell the citizens because they have the right to know. You spend their money on elections, because during that campaign you want to sign an agreement with Kosovo, so that all the campaign proposals don't hear what you're going to do, but then make it loud and clear if it's your policy, and we'll define whether we support it or not. You must say, not lie to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50081	National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a member of the 107th violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Balša Bozovic accused us of everything and everything. He spoke of tycoons, and his alliance of thieves and frauds led by a man who, while in power, earned, believed or not 500m euros. His party's director financially was Miodrag Kostic, therefore, the tycoon, well known to him and very close to him. I have not seen any tycoon created since 2013 until today. He was talking about the Army. Him? He created, along with Tadic, Gilas and Jeremic, a numerous and well-armed army. Since the air force, we've only had one plane and eagles on the flag. He's talking about murders and the Army? So they killed them, and they need to answer who killed two soldiers in a military facility. Who killed two soldiers while Boris Tadic and his party ruled? Have the perpetrators been found? They were only killed because their friends there were puking one and a half tons of drugs. There are testimonies for that. He's talking about martyrdom and workers, the ones who fired 400,000 people? While all citizens look forward to these results that have been presented, he grieves and he is against new employment. This is their factory sign. This is them. This is Balsha, who buys a $450 belt that buys 600-euro hoods, which flies by 30,000 euros. This is their sign they gave to the workers. This is their employment. This lock should be placed and this should be a symbol of the alliance of thieves, frauds and Ljotics. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50083	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov: Would you give an explanation? I gave an explanation, said the MP that he did not want to vote. Thank you for helping me run the session. I'll especially appreciate it in the future. (Alexandra Jerkov: You're welcome another time. Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50084	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we inherited the tycoons when we arrived in 2012 as SNS and charged them taxes. When you ask where the surplus came from, then the surplus from the tycoon tax that paid your taxes in your pockets by 2012, and we were paid in the budget. You're talking about the comparison between Vuk Jeremic and Oliver Ivanovic and you're talking about how the mafia is ruling in Kosovo. You should be ashamed of yourself. You have set the border between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj and we have not heard a word in the Serbian Parliament here that humanitarian disaster is at hand in Kosovo, but you are talking about simple politics supporting Haradinaj and Thaci, and that Serbs are guilty of living down in Kosovo. It is a shame with which you simply cannot come out here in Serbia and in front of Serbian citizens at all to discuss the subject, especially when you talk about the police and the military. You claim to support the increase in salaries of police and military, and ask to reduce the budget and talk about how it supports the government, and do not talk about how it simply takes care of peace and order in the cities of Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis where the increased crime was until 2012 and that the MUP has now managed to solve certain cases and bring justice to all those who did what they wanted in your time. You should be ashamed of what you just said and you should apologize first and foremost to the people who work in that army and the MUP, because they care about all the citizens of Serbia, the work of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50085	Thank you. Sinisha Mali, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50086	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I would refer only to the two lies we have heard and I want to tell the citizens of Serbia how the government of the Republic of Serbia encourages both the economy and the private and the public and to look back at who and how the salary increases since 2019. We just heard a narrow part of the executives will benefit from increased salaries in January 2019, ladies and gentlemen in total 429,865 people will receive a salary increase from 1 January 2019 on average between 7% and 12%, 429,865. It's exactly the government's policy for all those who work hard, and if we save something, if we earn something, then we don't take expensive loans and give them a chance to live better. On the other hand, we've heard that the economy is cramping. There are several under pressure and a burden of the government policy of the Republic of Serbia, decisions we make. There are several indicators that are very important to me, which show that the economy has functioned in some previous period in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and how it is now functioning. The two aspects I would like to mention here are that monetary policy contributes to a better business environment, business stability and the two measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the fiscal side and which will be taken into account in the 2019 budget, in order to make business easier for private companies. If we look at, say, the exchange rate, how the exchange rate has been going over the past ten years, as you know about privates, for businessmen, generally, the exchange rate is very important. So you have a policy of the previous government that has allowed dinar-euro to be at about 81 euros for the euro since 2008, and already in 2013, there are 113 dinars for the euro. And in 2014, dinar-euro 117,3 and you know what today is? 118,26. So this shows how the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS is trying to keep the environment in which businesses work to make it stable, to be predictable, and thus our businessmen make decisions easier, to invest money in new production, in new factories and exchange rates is a very important indicator for this. Let's look at the second indicator, and that's the inflation rate. If anyone is involved in the economy knows that businessmen want to have a predictable exchange rate, they want to have a predictable inflation rate, or rate of inflation that the Serbian government plans. Look, since 2002, when the inflation rate was, I apologize, in 2008, when the inflation rate was 11.7%, in 2009, 8.4%, in 2010 6.5% year-on-year, in 2011, again 11% inflation in the Republic of Serbia, in 2012, 7.8% in 2013, the same 7.8%. How then did businessmen and how could they plan their prices and their costs and their imports and exports and wages and everything else when inflation was double-digit or close to a double-digit? Today, in Serbia inflation is 2.3% year-on-year, 2015 was 1.9%, 2016 1.2%, last year 3%, this year 2.3%. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are serious figures and a serious difference in the environment in which all economic operators operate sometimes and now, and this is the contribution of the responsible economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank. Finally, the second element I wanted to say relates to the 2019 plan and budget. I have repeated several times, I will repeat and now, the main elements of the budget are precisely aimed at facilitating, further facilitating the work of Serbia's economy and to accelerate even greater and higher economic growth, than the one we have in 2018, which is already recordable for many countries in the environment and in relation to the last few years in our country. So, we have a redundancy of profit costs for the first time in our history where we are removing contributions to the employer's burden of unemployment. Twelve billion dinars remain more businesses than the state. You have the Law on Refunds where we abolish four fees, reduce the basics of a large number of other fees, leave another two billion dinars more economics than it goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, you have a whole series of tax reliefs that I have been talking about for the past few days where seven billion additional dinars go to business and not to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is exactly how we relieve businesses, try and influence them to be more competitive, to make our environment attractive, by maintaining of course macroeconomic stability. Everything that the state does on its decisions, on macroeconomic stability, is that we are reducing our share of public debt to GDP, which is growing GDP at growth rates, which we have a surplus in the budget for the third year in a row, it is just affecting the stability of the exchange rate, on never lower inflation rates, on that environment that is just important and important for businesses to invest as much as possible. And in the end, I just said, our unemployment rate is dropping at a historic minimum of 11.3%, the employment rate is increasing, 370,000 new jobs in the past four years. It is precisely an exact indicator of the success of this economic policy and we will continue with this policy. One more thing I forgot to tell you, I want to thank all the pensioners in the Republic of Serbia one more time. Today, it will receive one-off aid of 3,000 dinars in our country, and that is another indicator that what we save, other than the increase in pensions from October of this year, we want to give to those who need this support and who, of course, deserve it, I want to thank them for the burden of reforms they have suffered over the past few years, with the fiscal stability that we have managed to achieve, with the savings we have made and the pensions and salaries in Serbia can be and will be only greater in the years that come. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50087	Who? Which one of them mentioned you in his speech? (Balsa Bozovic: Aleksandra Tomic. She's replicated you? She didn't cause a replica, but here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50088	Thank you. So I'm telling you how it's going to be and I know that you're going to adopt this and I don't have absolutely, it's going to be bad in 2019. Six hundred thousand people have left Serbia from 2012 until today, permanently. That's OECD data. When you say he's less unemployed, they're the unemployed who left Serbia forever and are no longer in the table that they're unemployed. That's it. On the other hand, you're talking about the private sector, I'm talking about the private sector, you're talking about the economy. So several huge tycoons that have huge money in Serbia also make up the economy. They're doing great. Statistics are like that. When they're earning something, then statistics show it's progressing, but that little private, medium private, cramps in debt, is burdened with parafiscal intrusions. You're draining from these people and workers in the private sector everything. They finance pensions, they finance failed state-owned enterprises, directors who receive tens of thousands of euros in annual incomes. There's no room for them in this budget, there's no future for them in 2019. As for the others, believe me, it is not Serbia's interest in Kosovo, Vesenovic and Radoicic. No, I don't. Their private interests in Kosovo are that Kosovo, the north of Kosovo, be without law so that they can rule there, so that they can participate in tenders in Serbia, and Serbia is interested in a citizen living downstairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50089	Thank you. Proposer of the law, Minister Sinisha Mali has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50090	Thank you very much. Because of the citizens of Serbia, because of those watching this transmission, I would just like to repeat it one more time. I think Serbia's citizens find it much better to know that the unemployment rate is 11.3%, although we are not satisfied with that unemployment rate, but 25.5%, which was in 2012. Also, I think it is important for Serbian citizens and the good news that the employment rate has passed 49%, amounts to 49.2% in the third quarter of this year and that we have opened and employed over the past four years, created new jobs and hired 370,000 people. So much has increased the number of employees in our country in the last four years. If someone didn't happen to hear or didn't understand, one more time to repeat, if someone hasn't heard again, today all pensioners in the Republic of Serbia will receive one-off aid of 3,000 dinars, as a sign of the savings and results we have achieved this year and our desire to raise the standard of living of our citizens in the shortest time period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50091	Thank you very much. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50092	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the debate we have heard practically all the arguments that speak in favor of why we should adopt all the proposed acts, I am thinking primarily of the draft budget for 2019. Ministers, particularly Minister Sinisa Mali, but also MPs, particularly the authorised representative of the SNS, Mrs Tomic, have informed us in detail about all the positive effects, as well as the benefits these proposed legislative solutions will bring. It is clear from everything attached that this law is balanced, balanced, that the revenue and expenditure sides of the budget are harmonised, as it is clear that we can call this budget a "development budget", but in no way should it ignore its social category, or social dimension. The facts and the increase in pensions and wages in the public sector, but also the creation of conditions for further growth and pensions and wages that will follow. There's already been a lot of talk about this, here, for three days, but for me, the most important thing is to point out something, which is that these increases and pensions and salaries are based on real-estate assets, from real income, so no borrowing. And there's a key difference between us on this side and them across from us. So they've increased pensions exclusively for pre-election purposes. So, there goes the election, you're in charge. There's no money in the budget, no matter, you're in charge, just let's raise our pensions for the election. Who will repay those debts doesn't matter, we won't. Someone else is gonna pay those debts back. So that's that fundamental and key difference between us and them. Such is the state which they have left us, over-indebted, and we repay those debts even today. You, Minister, are quite right when you ask the question – what were we able to do with the hundreds of billions of dinars that we pay today on behalf of the service of old debts? How many kindergartens, how many hospitals, how many schools, how many roads? In what could all this money have been spent better than on paying off earlier loans? The state of public finances is stable and we achieve excellent results across all possible parameters and when it comes to the inflow of foreign direct investment and when it comes to the rate of economic growth and when it comes to the reduction of public debt and when it comes to unemployment, and just now the minister said what is the record unemployment rate in Serbia, at the historic minimum, and when it comes to tax collection, which is once again at a record high level. And they see it today, or not just those who don't want to see it, like the previous speaker. The previous speaker doesn't understand all this, he's not completely interested. The only thing he knows, he knows here is that he's making some lies about Alexander Vukic and about the SNS and the Serbian government, some imaginary data that he's just being so easy, casual, and his politics are coming down and all he really knows is he's doing, it's making combinations for dorcool cafes. That's what he's used to, that's the kind of policy he's used to, and that's the policy he's been representing here. I know they mind when the IMF also gives a certain recognition for economic results, when the IMF says the state of public finances is stable in Serbia. They'd be expelled today, today they're bothered by the IMF, both the IMF and the World Bank, and they'd banish foreign investors. It doesn't take a day for his boss, Dragan Gilas, not to fall on foreign investors. Every day we get threats, threatens foreign investors to take away their property and stuff. What message is sent by that? What kind of message is sent by that? We don't want foreign investment, we don't want investment, we don't want economic growth, we don't want new jobs. Don't bet here, it's not suitable for you here. Go somewhere else, skip Serbia. Is that a message? Is that the Alliance for Serbia's policy? Here the previous speaker should have said – yes, it is the Alliance for Serbia's policy, we stand for it. He mentions the election of some, says this is an election budget, an election year. Well, just don't talk about the election. Well, you're the only one avoiding the election. You're afraid of choices as the devil's cross, as the people say. Here, you have a chance, on December 16th there will be elections in four municipalities in Serbia. So, what did you do? You're boycotting these elections. It says – there are no fair conditions etc. Well, those elections are called according to your laws. We haven't changed the laws. And they're boycotting the election. The previous speaker said just before, and very easily so, he said – it will be bad in 2019. He did not support anything, but he says – it will be bad in 2019. Yes, it will be bad in 2019 for him, for him and for him alike, like he did bad years before when he didn't exercise power, because we prevented the possibility of a combination, because we prevented the politics of the transge-frang and because we prevented the politics that he and his boss had been rich all those years while he was exercising power, while the citizens were suddenly poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50093	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50094	Well, here, in the minister's style, and I'll inform the dear pensioners who are starting receiving 3,000 dinars today, you'll have to give that up for an annual subscription to RTS and RTS. It's raised from 150 dinars to 220. You'll be left with about 400 dinars at the end of the year. And it's not bad, just to continue with that trend, it's a positive trend. As far as this budget is concerned, here's another budget in this conference that we haven't considered before, nor discussed the final account, of the report that the funds from the previous period were spent. What are we doing? We're going around in circles, we're always telling the same story. Here, the government's representatives, in particular the finance minister, explain, convinces us that this budget is mostly the result of the government's efforts and, individually, of all ministers, not to forget them, to improve the standard and to lead a socially responsible policy. Somewhere near the end, they say they've agreed with the IMF, as they did along the way. And you forget, gentlemen, that you brought in one innovation when it comes to funding this country. Together with the IMF, you have also contributed to the creation of a fund called the "housekeeper". You know how wonderful that sounds when it's said in the people -- we have a billion at our disposal, but we won't take it, a billion euros, of course, that's what we call a "housekeeper". The housekeeper is, by the way, a plant that is spread in Serbia and serves for medicinal purposes. You don't want it, it's more like this, because of the people. Otherwise, if you didn't think of the people you'd spend it too, and then coincidence. When you compare this budget with the previous budget, or budget from this year 2018, you see that the increase is a billion euros. How exactly does that figure fit? It's about a billion euros. There was 9,900, there was 10,900, or 11, and that's about a billion. It's not like you've reached out to use that "guard house". What is very interesting in this budget, and especially in the interpretation of the Secretary-General, is that there will be an increase in living standards and in the first place that raises pensions and wages. You're forgetting, gentlemen, that this 181 billion you've defined for the Pension Fund is just that small part of what you've been taking in the previous period. Do you know what kind of math you have? You're counting, it's 10% reduced, and now we're back by a smaller percentage on several occasions, and that's about the same thing. Yes, gentlemen, if it were simply collected, but don't forget, the pension had a much larger base to account for that increase. You're just losing sight of the fact that you're on a pension that's been reduced by 10%, you're adding those percentages to that reduction, and that's not the same thing. It can't be the same. What's interesting about this? Neither you nor the previous governments have reached for one instrument to solve the issue of pensioners in the long term. We insist on it because it's by nature one of the most endangered categories in the population, because it's people who have provided some capital for 30-40 years, given that capital to the state for protection, that state took that money away from them. Pensioners and pension organizations are asking you gentlemen to return the property that belongs to them under the laws of this country. A lot of spas are made out of pension funds. What kind of answer do they get? He can't, because it's privatized. He can't do it by law. Look, when you do restitution, you return something that was 70 years ago, and these laws all fall into the water. This, by all laws, can't happen by all the rules of law, how you do it, and when you have to get back to the Pension Fund, then use those laws and say it – it can't come back. Come on, when you can't get back, why didn't you think that the Pension Fund wasn't so dependent on budget funds? Let's say, here's an example of why we radicals are running you for an idea to think about. Why didn't you realize that you were broadcasting corporate bonds from Telecom, so that these bonds were part of the property as part of the future privatisation of the "Telecom" so that he could be the Pension Fund owner? It's a safe source of income. Why didn't you do that or something with the Elektroprivreda of Serbia? No, it doesn't occur to you. Because you keep that part of the population dependent on your political will or something else. Because that part of the population always lives in the hope that it will be better, so it votes and gives confidence to the current government. You've even gone so far that you've made the party, which came from that population layer and that population group, undervalued, have made it a point to admit here that it's a good thing you've cut your pension. It was not yet in the history of this Serbia, to drag someone deep into their pocket, and to say that's good, but you've reached for it. When you look at the revenue side, you have one neural point you won't explain, Mr. Minister. You, on the income side, finance most of the tax. In these taxes, the highest percentage is the tax on the additional value of so-called. VAT. What's interesting, gentlemen? In this VAT, VAT contributes most to imported goods. You have one problem that's getting bigger and bigger, and it's that your imports are growing compared to your exports and you're explaining it so layishly, easily. You say – it doesn't matter, in the past period exports have grown. Export structure doesn't interest you. It may have grown exports, but it's freezers, it's refrigerators, it's Burning stoves, it's Fiat's vehicles, it's an Italian product, it's goods produced for the interests of foreign companies, and you can't solve it, you can't solve an ever-present increase in imports. Why can't you? It's more of a factor. Because we are becoming more and more dependent on goods imported into Serbia. Because you don't stimulate exporters in this country, domestic exporting producers. Not because you don't want it, because it doesn't give you the IMF, because it's so-called. The hard course of dinars is detamulative, when it comes to exports, because the increasingly smart economies, and thus the governments that manage the economy, are always used with slightly higher inflation, devalued domestic currency to be more competitive on the foreign market. You don't care about that. You don't care. The IMF told you it was good. I commended you for being something new in Serbia's economic sky. That's what they said about those who were headed by Boris Tadic. Praise them, speak to them – you will be 100 years old, your economy, your way of thinking about the economy, your privatisation will benefit Serbia, and your people will celebrate. You saw them thrown away, like paper. You boast that you are running social policy and in the employment work. Look, gentlemen, how this medal has two sides. That's right. You employ, employ private companies, but there is one fact – it is still in effect that young and new labour forces cannot be employed in the state sector. You see the deficit, when it comes to staff, when it comes to professional staff, it appears in the area of health care. You see how many people, professional, are missing when it comes to the state administration. We don't have lawyers, we don't have quality economists. What was, it's gone, and young people end up, they can't find their jobs. We don't have enough inspectors. Why do these young people finish colleges? Why are they perfecting themselves? What, to go wash dishes abroad? There's no need for this decision to take effect. It'll be too late when you hire young experts, then they won't have anywhere to work. Gentlemen, you're here to state that you're giving subsidies. You continue to grant subsidies per employee, when it comes to a foreign investor, but this is the tattoo economy, the thieving economy established by Mladjan Dinkic. Generally known, it is no longer a secret, that Mladjan Dinkic and his criminal group, named G17, were taking thousands of euros per employee, so they provided official information that there are 17,000 newly employed people. Seventeen thousand euros have been poured into Dinkic's pockets and his contemporaries. What do we got? We have the continuity of Dinkic always at the finance ministry. We had Vujovic, robbed Ukraine, and now we have a young teenager, so how long will this Serbia live in the belief that something new will bring it? Who can convince us that you don't take? But, given that this is a provision normally from the state, because we don't know where the borders of that state are yet, and given the composition of the coalition government, nothing surprises us. We in this country not only don't know the boundaries but we're facing new borders. We have Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic, who supports a juju, who draws new borders, which the Rasko region declares as Sandzak, forgets that in Sandzak, the so-called northern Montenegro, and you keep quiet. Now the real question is, the question of all the questions – in which country are we going to bring it up? What state are we going to do this in? In which country are we going to talk about increasing GDP? If you continue to support your coalition partners most directly, it is hard to believe that this little Serbia will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50095	Alexander Martinovic, replica. Milorad Mijatovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50096	I understand Mr. Mircic. As MPs of one opposition party, he must criticise the government and that is quite normal, but for a few of the things he has said is wrong. First, the amount of pension is not acquired right and you persistently chase two categories. Retirement as social status from the amount of retirement. The amount of pension is not guaranteed law. The amount of pension depends, would be good if it didn't depend, but the amount of pension depends on real economic opportunities, on the one hand, on the Republic of Serbia's budget, and on the other hand, pension and disability insurance funds. If we were a completely educational and economically well-organised state, then the budget shouldn't pay a single penny for pensions at all, but all pensions would be paid out of the PIO funds. Unfortunately, these funds have been robbed in some ancient times and now the Republic of Serbia is in a position to pay most of the pensions or one large part of the pensions out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So the pension thing, the pension amount, I don't think you're right. As for factories that are open thanks to, as you say, subsidies to foreign companies, you're not right about that either. The positive legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mircic, make no difference between foreign and domestic investors. Look at the State Aid Act. He only recognizes the category of investors. The capital can be foreign, but the capital when it comes, and that foreign capital when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, it must operate under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, it implies the establishment of a company under the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia, which must be registered with the Agency for Commercial Registers, and this company is a domestic company paying taxes, contributions and any other fiscal obligations under the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. So the Republic of Serbia is not a country where a foreign company can operate directly on the market. The capital is foreign, but all the companies that are open are domestic because they are registered in the Republic of Serbia. We are not a banana state in which companies registered in the Cayman Islands are operating, but a state arranged in which every company newly founded must be registered at the Agency for Business Registers. Don't forget one more thing. I know that it is politically convenient to use, roll some cables and export top-of-the-table refrigerators and some factories that are open in the Republic of Serbia from 2014 to 2018...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50097	Thank you. Time. I'm sorry, MP. The word is Milorad Mijatovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50098	Thank you, Madam President. I look forward to the fact that we have a historical minimum of unemployment of 11.3. That's the topic we need to talk about here. However, there are forces that constantly drag into the past. Just before the debater said that, and he's doing it for a simple reason, because the party he belongs to doesn't have a foreign policy. It's a party that doesn't have real politics, makes up affairs, makes up lies, and that's where he's looking to do something. Unfortunately, you didn't do it. This new coalition between the two parties that has formed, the truth is a little strange, but it's created, it's lost, you've lost the election for national councils and once you accept. Let me let you know, you've lost what I can do for you. But, please, the electoral will of the citizens is the law. Let's respect her and that's the law behind which we stand, behind which we stand, and the people know the real policies. The policies that lead forward, the policies that mean better for the citizens, and we just heard one of those data. I am one of those who says we should move forward, but step by step with respect for all the resources we have, and Serbia has resources. That's why I'm saying, if you want to have a political fight, have the right policies, don't make affairs, don't tell people about the truth, lie, and think you'll get it. You'll never win that because the truth always wins and the truth finally wins down in the Raška region or Sandzak, so I'll always call the Raška area and Sandzak. She won because the citizens knew who Rasim Ljajic was, how he was doing and everything he'd done so far. Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50099	What replica? Wait then. Grodan picked up the same thing for the replica. So, first you replicate Mijatovic and then I give the replica to Grozdani Banac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50100	It's too high to argue with people who two days all they can talk about is SRS politics, but I haven't heard any of them fenced from what Juja did. Whoever is with Juju is the same as Juju, both by character and by political attitude. Gentlemen, just so you know one thing, I appreciate the consistency of this party's inconsistency with Mijatovic. They entered the coalition with the SNS by cheating on Boris Tadic, then consistent with their inconsistency continued on that path, felt that they could profit with Alexander Vukic and remain faithful to him and will be faithful to him as Boris Tadic – until the first opportunity. Don't lose sight of you who belong to the SNS. Everything they said to Vojislav Seselj and that he was a war criminal, and that you were making him move out, that refers to Alexander Vukic, they just can't say right now because they're interested in being with Alexander Vukic. Otherwise, you'll see, if they get a chance, they'll say the same thing to Alexander Wolfich. Only Maja Gojkovic noticed and tried to stop them, and you keep quiet, keep quiet, think they accuse Vojislav Seselj, what do you care? No, they're accusing all those who were and who were in the SRS. It's their policy. Their policy is consistency in inconsistency.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50101	I also have to give the Grozdan Banac to everyone. Make a deal. (Miss Radeta: Replica. On what basis of you? As a deputy. Then I read in order, Alexander Martinovic and Grozdana Banac. You can't all replicate. It cannot replicate both Vladimir Marinkovic and Milorad Mijatovic in front of a group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50102	The Serbian Progressive Party has made its position clear, which is that we are in favour of a permanent style between Serbs and Bosniaks and in the Raška area, as we are for the style and good neighbourly relations with Bosniaks in BiH. That's one thing. We do not want Alexander Vukic involved as president of the Republic of Serbia in the internal courts of two parliamentary political parties. Don't get us involved in this. That's one thing. The second thing, you were wrong when you said we were silent about the baseless attacks that were coming to your party, I personally, as chairman of the Administrative Board, was under strong media pressure to, after then, by force of God, through my knees, schedule a session of the Administrative Committee and to take over the mandate of Vojislav Seselj, as an alleged war criminal. I made it clear and loud that I would not do it, not because I agree with Vojislav Seselj, but because there are no legal conditions for a man to be taken away from his mandate. Now I'm gonna resent one of my coalition partners, but that's my opinion, as a lawyer. As I didn't, I wanted to just because it was popular at the time, to condemn Verica Radeta, because of a pretty rough tweet, which she published this summer, because I know the other side of the medal, as you say, which is that not only the Bosniaks died in Podrinj, but also the Serbs suffered massively during 1992 and 1993.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50103	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50104	It's just, I'm done with one sentence. In one letter, don't throw away you're very nervous, in one letter to Churchill, Anton Idn, the British Foreign Minister says -- for McLane Tito he was completely white, and Draža Mihajlovic is completely black, it seems to me that, he says, the gray color in the Balkans is the most common.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50105	I'll give Vladimir Marinkovic a word, so he can replace me here, according to the Rules of Procedure, so I can answer Mr Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50106	Thank you, Honorable President, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, for advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure 107 is about the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The speaker, or colleague Milorad Mircic, spoke again about the elections for national councils of national minorities, by who knows which way by making the truths, and it is an eclectic fact that Mr. Rasim Ljajic and that our party participated in these elections, and I think we should really stop it. We're here, and we're very ready to talk politics. I'm not going to say anything to a Member of Seselj, he's not here, if he were here, I'd say what I have and replicate it, but I'll tell his colleagues. I think it's enough with these kinds of attacks, because of course it doesn't contribute to the development of our parliamentary democracy, or the debate we need to have in this National Assembly. You'd better deal with it, the Serbian radicals, by inviting Kadri Veselj to a great Kosovo, a great Albania, better be with your people at KIM. I have not heard that someone was in Republika Srpska and visited the areas where Serbs live in the present Republic of Croatia and I have not seen any desire or will to fight together for the rights of the Serbian people. Today in Montenegro, just today Milan Knezevic is sitting in the Montenegrin Assembly, cannot come out, because he will likely be arrested, as a representative of the Serbian Party in the parliament of Montenegro, and you are here speaking nebulously about Rasim Ljajic participating in elections for the councils of national minorities. Thank you. I'm not going to ask the National Assembly to make a statement about the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50107	Thank you. Will you? Marinkovic, please. Faith of Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50108	First, a colleague, Martinovic, came out, said the SNS advocated a style with Muslims. As far as the SRS is concerned, it was never disputed for us, on the contrary, but when we mention Rasim Ljajic and Esad Djudžu in the National Council, we do not in any way insult Muslims, we just say that Rasim Ljajic, as Deputy Prime Minister, supports Esad Djudz and helped him become president of the Bosniak National Council, and Esad Djudja paints a new map of Serbia's split. And says Mr. Martinovic -- he has had great pressure to schedule the Administrative Board to take over Vojislav Seselj's mandate. Martinovic is a good lawyer and he did not refuse it because he had some special relationship with Vojislav Seselj, but because as a good lawyer he knows it is impossible. Imagine now, God forbid, I'm afraid of it, but I still believe that Martinovic, as a good lawyer, would refuse it, what if Rasim Ljajic pressured him to accept these Djudža maps of Serbia's rip-off. As for you from this Ljajic party, which you keep boasting about, you say -- we won't cross the censorship, we're the past, etc. just to remind you on 19 June 2012, and a few days before that, Rasim Ljajic said that he would be a very immoral man if he entered the coalition with Vukic, because when Tadic introduced him to the Assembly, and then asked Tadic and the Democrats to let him come to the advances, of course they didn't want him to, and in June 19, 2012, I quote - I accepted the correct offer of Vukic and Dacic, as no one has given me...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50109	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50110	Please. ... the decision to enter the ruling bloc is morally debatable, but I chose between the survival and the disappearance of the party... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50111	Thank you. It's obvious to you that we are the greatest allies of Alexander Vukic, you would like to be. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, thank you. The word is Grodan Banac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50112	I'm sorry, I just wish, Mr. Mircic, among other things, thank you and you started this, the question of the pensioners. I am very glad that everyone cares about pensioners, however, the PUPS is the only party that can support this population and lead. We had certain reasons why we supported consolidation, so that the state could survive, however, in this mandatory pension insurance, how it works today, it is an intergenerational solidarity that we all know well that there must be reform. We are all very well, with life experience learned that this reform must come about for many reasons, not only for this consolidation, for many other reasons that we have cited, and we have repeatedly asked and prayed for public debates to be called upon by all interested, of course representatives of the government, representatives of the union, presidents of the Pensioners' Association, representatives of the PIO Fund, to see. We already have suggestions, we follow. Our position and attitude of our President Milan Krkobiæ is 3P, pensions follow wages. Please, no matter what, it's all debateable. We can plow, let's take a look at everyone's opinions and get out and know where they are from the Real estate fund and where everything else is and how it's handled. Therefore, the most beautiful thing I ask is for you to respond, to support our call, we are the only one as a party. We represent this population.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50113	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50114	Thank you. For personal mentioning by MP Milorad Mircic. It is indisputable and we really respect our coalition partner SDPS, we have joined this parliament together behind the names of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. And if you analyze the results of the elections in many environments in which the Muslim population or Bosniak population prevails, it is said today, that it has received a large number of votes. Which means he has the trust of all the citizens of this country. All citizens of this country and the president should not be involved in our party, inter-party disputes. But I don't understand at all how I suddenly became the target of an election campaign for the Bosniak National Council? I didn't participate in these elections, I didn't root for anyone, I simply didn't care about the outcome of those elections until it was over and as Parliament's president, I suddenly became collateral damage. It turned out that it was my fault for the statements of some politicians down in the Raska area, Sandzak, which the Serbian Progressive Party disagreed with. Dear counterpart, the Serbian Progressive Party will never agree with Sulajman Ugljanin's statements, which said Serbia is a fascist form and such morbidaria. We build upon it and condemn such statements. Of course, the president of the Bosniak National Council, Mr. Esad Djujo, or Djudjevic, is also on social networks, which is now a recognised medium, drew the forged maps of the Republic of Serbia. And of course I'm judging. You know that I am because of my principled views, because I am defending this state, offended, that they have honored me to have some kind of Stockholm syndrome. All right, I've got Stockholm syndrome, and here's Bosko Obradovic beat me, so again I have to communicate with him, it's no problem, it's when the victim forgives, it's simply tied to someone who harasses you. There, I'm heading towards Bosca Obradovic. He beat me and harassed me, but, well, that's policy, what to do. But I will not have any Stockholm syndrome with Sulejman Ugljanin and Esada Djudjevic, nor the Serbian Progressive Party. We respect our coalition partners, but these other people, with such statements and with such intentions towards Serbia, do not. Point one, big one. The Serbian Progressive Party is a party that respects the Republic of Serbia and anyone who thinks he should co-operate or not fence against such statements is in great error. At a time when we have such a major crisis in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, when we are fighting for the survival of our people there, as if someone deliberately, deliberately, by command, were opening some kind of Pandora's box down in southern Serbia. Now, that's what we all have to stand up to together and figure out how this issue of the Bosniak National Council started in the first place, how it suddenly started to scream, when he was almost a minister in the fascist state, what he was doing there, why he didn't come out of that government. Unbelievable. And don't let anyone judge it! In our Parliament, it's nice to all of us. And even this, as it is called, this Alliance for Serbia, there are Ugljanin's people MPs, I don't know what they're called, for, against, anything, anyway. (Maya Vidinovic: For mentioning the name, he said. ) Thank you, fellow Members, I hope that you are defending Serbia and will consider whether Ugljanin will be your coalition partner in the next election, because you will be an easy topic, since we will keep saying that he... People's MPs are getting it. ) Vuk Jeremic has been a born brother to Haradinaj since yesterday, as he is more respected by Vuk Jeremic Haradinaj than the president of the Republic of Serbia. That's right. And your MP, dear colleagues, we have had our chance today, within what we are talking about today, to get Balsa Bozovic up, an MP, and he says - threaten to die here with Vuk Jeremic. I couldn't react, but how is that a threat to Wolf Jeremiah? Because it shows citizens of Serbia in direct television broadcasts the truth about what he tweeted? Well, he's not ashamed of it. If he were ashamed, he'd say, "I'm sorry, I was wrong." Here, a microphone is used to bring some kind of madness into the minds of Serbian citizens, as MPs here invent, a Facebook news or what we're talking about here. So, he tweeted it on his warrant, he's proud to praise Haradinaj and condemn Alexander Vukic. Great. And we don't have the right to bring it up. It is also a novelty in Serbia's political life. But, dear colleague Mircic, dear MP Mircic, thank you for being I have rights. [[Maya Vidinovic: She said she answered the line.]] There will be elections soon and then there will be loudspeakers to lead the Serbian Parliament. Almost. So we understand each other. We respect our coalition partners. Alexander Vukic received votes from both Hungary and Slovakia and Romania and from the Russians and from Muslims and from Bosniaks and from the great majority in this country by our joint efforts and by his great reputation, as the Prime Minister before, and this economy he led. The statements of Sulejman Ugljanin, the president of the Bosniak National Council of Esad Djudjevic, represent this percentage of citizens in this country, and we strongly condemn such statements, which are morbid and which at the moment represent who knows whose interests to stop talking about Kosovo and Metohija and what is going on down here today and that we are all talking suddenly about the Bosniak National Council and what is going on down there and that the MPs here, regardless of who were on my list, were not on my list, I was shocked that some MPs stood up here and threatened, if one MP is not taken away in parliament, will inform Bosniaks to the Serbian parliament. I was shocked by that statement. I hope it was one big mistake. I believe, MPs, that you are shocked, but I hope you understand what I was talking about today. And most experienced politicians understood. To call for me, or Alexander Martinovic, or all of you to participate in this, to take up a mandate, in which way, by which law, someone who has been in prison for 13, 14 years, to withdraw the mandate? Which one of you graduated from law school? And who told you to look for it? And if we don't, Serbia is being blackmailed, it says -- we will bring here members of the national minority. What kind of message is that to Serbia? What kind of message is that to our Parliament? So I came to you to understand Serbian citizens, because I know, we're here, there's a barrier, and what you know is true, you won't accept. You won't, you just hate, you hate in advance, and we don't hate anyone. But when it comes to such big issues, when it comes to Serbia, we must not have the flags of the party one in front of the long ones and we hate each other. We have to understand each other when there's a big question ahead of us, which is certainly the flag of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, and that's Serbia, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, and to condemn all together when one is held back, can be members of whatever minority you want, dare to cross the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Here we must be unique, not say – well, we are this, and you are it. No, we all live in the Republic of Serbia, and we have to protect it and keep it safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50115	Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. I think that after this speech, we can really just keep working. I ask all those who signed up and Milorad Mircic, and Milorad Mijatovic to stop the replicas and this fight that won't... (Milorad Mircic: PUPS replica. ) The president has now sent a message, it's very clear, and we should lower our tensions a little bit and continue our work. You'll have your chance again, please. [[Milorad Mircic: Marinkovic, PUPS replica.]] (Maya Vidinović: Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50116	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues can talk, but I'm in a situation where I have a microphone in front of me, so I'm gonna be stronger. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the most important document that brings Parliament into the course of a one-year session. They reiterate, as has been said many times today, that this is a good, quality, balanced budget proposal, that it is also developmental, that it is also socially responsible. This draft budget speaks for everything they do in the previous period and what they will do in the future for both the President of the Republic and the Government and the National Bank of Serbia, as well as for this parliamentary majority. So, to act responsibly, to act by thinking about the future and creating for the future. I'm going to mention here in that part just something that I think is the backbones of this budget, which is the redundancy of the economy, through that reduction that will bring 12 billion revenues to businesses and to two -- abandoning crisis measures. Then I'd stop and tell you, Mr. Minister, that you're not wasting time explaining something to someone who doesn't want to understand. We've heard everything, but we haven't heard any remarks on the draft budget and on these quality laws. Here individuals who probably don't have the weights to bring home material to show how hard it is, are unlikely to read. Even Alan Ford was brought into parliament. I'm going to have to mention him, especially for Mr. Sir Oliver, who's trying to play Robin Hood and bring up some Superhik and he's talking something that isn't in place, first of all in this House. But it seems that the group he represents, represents one thesis of number one, some choices there and says it this nice – we promise nothing and we will keep it promised. I think that's where they ended up. The first remarks I noticed were deadlines, entry into parliament, etc., from those who were on the Finance Committee, where you said nicely that we had the IMF here, that we had the World Bank, that we had waited, all of this was due in September, so in October and after that the documents came and by educated procedure we solve all these problems. The second remark was the Final Account Act, we get it in parliament. It is true, we haven't discussed it, but on the same financial committee, it is well said that since 2008, all the way to 2018, the DRI will process all these final accounts and when we get the opinion of the state institution that there will be a debate in all these final accounts in parliament. But, unfortunately, if I don't have anything to notice that it's bad in the budget, I'm going to be saying something that I've already been told, and then fiscal advice. The President of the Fiscal Council, when it comes to public debt, said at the sitting, I will paraphrasise – unfortunately, I must support Mr. Minister, you are wrong. All this writing, and this 4%, and that if we keep going like this, next time 51%, compared to this 54, as it is this year, that it is true, and that your story with 24 billion is what it is, but we re-indebt ourselves every year, because we create, because we just have investments to invest in corridors, some future seas, and in many, many other things. What was the remark again and what bothered me today in the discussions? It says: Force institutions, presses. Well, they're not force institutions, they're not presses, the military and the police are not, the military and the police need us. Why do those 220 billion thirds go to the military and the police? Well, she should go. This part is not going to increase their personal budget, or employees, here is investing in how we can protect ourselves, protect this country, protect this people, too. Well, I don't know why that's an observation, and why it bothers the budget. It is said in one of the discussions – not social. Now, if you'd thought about it, you'd have had breakfast, lunches, etc. Once upon a time when I was the founder, all the students had secured snacks. It was destroyed by someone else. Those who took 400,000 jobs took their lunches, as parents could not buy lunch for their children. We, at 370,000 since 2014, are also solving this problem, to ensure that every man in this country is worthy of life, that he can live and work and create from his work. To let my other colleagues say something, I'll end up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50117	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The word is Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50118	Article 27. Mr. Marinkovic, you've made a small oversight. I've been called several times, even by name, by my co-worker from PUPS, when it comes to pensions. Just for the sake of clarification, not to remain unarranged, I think it is simply one oversight because you too entered into this heated discussion about the discussion carried out by the President of the Parliament of Maja Gojkovic, who clearly fenced himself from all the things that Djuja said, but you are not fenced, you are his coalition partners. We didn't attack here. Secondly, it would be our turn to explain what the SRS's position is on the subject of a socially endangered population category, which, unfortunately, includes pensioners. It would be essential to allow us to present our programming. No one can take over and be the exclusive representative of a population group in this Serbia. They voted equally for us and for the PUPS and for the SNS and for all political parties, gave someone more votes, gave someone less, but we all have the right, after all, and that's the natural right. Most of us have parents, and certainly not a small number is close to being in that pensioner status. We can't close our eyes in front of the fact that it's claimed that the pension isn't acquired by law. Well, tomorrow you will take your savings in this way, and you will say, "You are not guaranteed the height of your savings, here we will give you a spoon." That's what this is about. We're saying something that's stable financing a pension fund, which is applicable and applied in the world, and we're not talking about getting cheap political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50119	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day? (No) The word has a professor. Milorad Mijatovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50120	Thank you, Members 107 and 108. I have to admit, I keep wondering why the SDPS is constantly being asked to plead. We are one state-run party, a party that works in Serbia, which is a party for all Serbia and which does not speak, but works. Rasim Ljajic, who you suspect here, is working for the state of Serbia and respects the state of Serbia and has returned from Turkey tonight by bringing new investors. You keep doubting. And then you won't say when we condemn it, we condemned Sulejman Ugljanin's statement, Rasim Ljajic, the moment it was said, I did it here in parliament, we also condemn that Djudjevic's statement, neither do I, because we are a state-of-the-art party. The Social Democratic Party condemns all statements denying the state of Serbia within its constitutional borders. Please, constitutional boundaries. I have no intention of responding further, because the truth to these people on the right is not responding. The truth doesn't suit them because only in dim, in affairs can exist, because you don't have politics, that's why I emphasized it, and there's no need to stress it all the time. My regularity, the regularity of the party I belong to, I have no intention of trusting anyone, we do it in the works of this House, supporting reforms and working together with our coalition partners and the results that you cannot dispute. Therefore, the people do not trust you, and they will give us trust again tomorrow, and they will not give you any more trust for the presidential elections, or for the Belgrade elections, and they will not give you any more trust. You're a party of the past and enjoy that past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50121	Thank you, Dr. Mijatovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, I'm now setting a break by 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50122	We're going back to work. The word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50123	First of all, I would say something that should be welcomed in the 2019 Budget Law, which is certainly a reduction in deficits, a reduction in further new borrowing, about 4.05% compared to last year, and a reduction in previous borrowing payments. So that seems certainly dispensing. I don't think there's any need to brag about the fact that the IMF praised the budget because the IMF is looking at figures, not policies that arise from these figures, and not assessing whether these figures will reduce or deepen social injustices, encourage or condemn economic growth and raise or not living standards. It's a job for all of us to achieve this growth, and we need much more growth because in the last ten years, the country of our region has grown by 20%, and we have grown by twice as much. In order for this budget to be truly developed and correct traditional injustices, social injustices and raise economic growth and citizens' standards, it must then provide funding to increase public spending, i.e. earning in the public sector, abolishing employment bans and repairing public sector employees' structure. Funding to increase capital expenditure on investment in permanent goods and in infrastructure and to finance the distribution of employers through tax cuts and income contributions. What on these four questions does this budget do? With regard to the increase in public sector earnings, the private sector has stepped up in front of it, and in fact the state business has been promoted. It's probably fiscally justified because it's probably compensated somewhere for something. With regard to employment in the public sector, as regards the ban on public sector employment, the ban does not go away and we will continue with the problem of leaving quality people and we will continue to have a problem with public sector employees' structures, because we will also have a small profit range, and we will have a doctor's departure and the detention of administrators. With regard to increasing capital expenditures, and we certainly need them primarily for the environment and other areas that would fuel the economy, but unfortunately in our budget, the military and the MUP are the most involved in the growth of capital expenditure, 25 billion, that is two-thirds of the total increase in capital expenditure, and in fact the defence and police ministers were supposed to sit here all this time and explain the policies for which they needed these funds. I don't think this is a pre-election budget, this is a military budget, not to say, a war budget. This shows that frozen conflicts will stick to the political scene and occasionally heat up as needed and we will actually disperse the investor, so we will buy them additionally with subsidies. This budget envisions an additional 13 billion subsidies to buy investors and pay them to come to this region where conflicts are constantly heating up whenever necessary for the work of political positioning. Someone would say the military and the police have small salaries, so they need to make up for it through an increase in the military budget, but this budget doesn't solve it either, it doesn't solve the social status of soldiers and police officers because the military's profits are up by 12%, the police are up by 8%. That's seven billion compared to 35 billion additional capital investments in, say, military hardware, that's 223% increase in military hardware. So, on the other hand, the Army's budget fund for housing needs instead of last year's 650m 3,000 dinars in the budget. A reduction in the income burden worth about 12 billion state-of-state incomes, it is certainly a good and non-selective subsidy to all businessmen but still three times smaller than what the Fiscal Council has proposed and should have found somewhere another twenty-one billion to really make the maximum possible effort to dissipate the economy. The payload on how much the Fiscal Council has found space, because it is the most correct subsidy because it is unselective. There are still many items in the budget where savings could be achieved much. The government's general secretariat has 480m unsettled transfers to local government levels, which was missing last year. The famous 14 billion again for court sentences and penalty, damages from the state. It's less budgeted than last year, but we see that in August, all 18 billion budgeted for last year have been spent. There's no explanation for that, either. Eighty-eight million again for the MUP's fleet, 700 and something last year, and last December we had a controversy about the disputed public procurement of Škoda's vehicles. It seems that every year, the MUP restores the fleet, and in fact, to create space for this budget to be stimulated for the growth of economy and citizens' standards, we could have made some redistributions. For example, two and a few billion savings on the abolition of the cabinets of all government vice-presidents, who are also resolute ministers, and they have their own cabins there, the abolition of the Kosovo Office, the abolition of three of these ministries without portfolios because their work is being done by resolution ministries. So we don't have that kind of duplication. Key to me, we could really cut the capital expenditures of the MUP by 40% to the Ministry of Defense by 50%. That's, like, 20 billion or something. They would certainly and with that reduction have capital expenditures greater than last year and these capital expenditures would be the largest in them. So we'd certainly be big budget winners, right in the domain of investing in military and police equipment. We need to define whether we want to correct social injustices, economic growth, better health and education, as the greatest role for the future, or whether we want to hammer weapons around the region. So there's no one for each other. It's just, I think we've been exhausted for decades, and there's got to be some political attitude here. We could further reduce subsidies by as many as the entire economy is subsidized and that would be one more socially responsible budgeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50124	Thank you. The word is Mikhailo Jokic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50125	The previous speaker made two severe laps. First, he said that this budget, although first he said some smart thing that this wasn't an election budget. This is clearly seen from the articulation of GDP, not to talk about it now, because state spending in 2019 is at the same level as in 2018. You said that well that it wasn't electoral, but you said...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50126	Ambassador, you're replicating, you have to tell me what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50127	The injury because the MP said the budget was war. Look, it's very difficult, military, warring, it's huge differences. Saying at this point and in this situation that we're making a war budget, it's a very dangerous thing, and saying that military is something else. The other thing you've done is not to ban employment, but to control employment, people are still only employed under certain procedures. So you can't say that it's forbidden, you know that someone is constantly employed but it's controlled. First the ministry goes properly, then the Ministry of Finance, and then he goes to the commission. So, employment exists, it's not forbidden, it's controlled. So that's two very difficult slips, and for this wartime -- I don't know how you feel, but you have to give some explanation or some apology through the media, you've made a dangerous mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50128	The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50129	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, members of the government with their associates. I am sorry that today, again, the main news in the media in the Assembly will be another performance, i.e. bringing pictures and kidnappings around the picture. Instead of issues that are essential to the citizens of Serbia, the budget is certainly essential because it is the money of all Serbian citizens and how they are spent. And that is already a well-known mechanism of banalisation, politics and devising the Assembly that also serves to distract attention from important topics. So I ask the question and the finance minister, how does it feel when the most important law in the year is only the fourth one on the agenda, among the 60 other points of the agenda. Due to the large number of amendments submitted to the laws preceding it, we will probably not discuss the details of the budget as well as last year. From the debate so far on the budget with regret, I can conclude that the minister has overcome the role of politicians in relation to the role of economists and experts, so we have listened to unfounded triumphalism for a year in which we have really good economic growth, and it has forgotten on which basis this growth has come and that, for example, in the past year, we have been at the bottom of the region with 1.9% of the growth and that only Macedonia that has been going through a severe political crisis has had lower growth than we have. You also mention that we have more growth in, say, GDP than Estonia but it is forgotten to say that GDP per capita of the country is almost 20,000 dollars, while ours is higher than three times smaller. We're so full of percentages that should form them into the successes of this government, but all these numbers fall into the water before the most important one. How many people have left the country and how many people are just about to leave the country, and not just because of the poor standard of living, but primarily because of the way this government works, because the main word is run by incompetent and boastful obedients. And that's why the country is leaving not only young people but people of our age, and soon in many professions that are approaching in the 1950s, as Minister and I, and soon we will have a shortage of labour, but in some, we have an exodus of health workers, drivers, construction workers, and these figures are the best estimate of the work of this government. I am certainly not surprised by the minister's behaviour and I talked about it during the debate at the session when he was elected to this position, because he is primarily an operative of this authority. They do not surprise the priorities that this budget contains, given the priorities it has as mayor of the capital, that is, given that it is one of the main shockers of this government and the image of how this government works. Let's just remember that during his term of office there was an illegal collapse in Savala, when a legal order was suspended in one part of Serbia's territory, whose resolution insists on both the European Parliament and without which essential progress towards the EU is not possible. That one of the main creators and contractors of the Belgrade project is on the water of an indelible scar on the capital's face, increasingly known as the mordor. Then the naharadic and non-quality reconstructions, i.e. general concreteisation and vasarisation of the capital, which in its most drastic form depicted in the overpriced and spine of the New Year's lighting that it has metastasized this year. Minister Mali spoke three pillars of this budget, among which is the debate of one standard, but the way I see it, the three most important pillars are next. Wrong priorities, non-transparentity and further centralization. By wrong priorities, he also spoke the Fiscal Council that both sides here called for in this debate. It has been said that the budget does not foresee effective measures to speed up economic growth and that insufficient separation in infrastructure, education and health, or that too much has gone into investment in security structures, we also have a gondola. I would also like to know why we have a 104% increase in the budget for the Information Technologies and Electronic Administration Office, which is under the Prime Minister. Of which only a billion and 400 million dinars are allocated to support software licenses, that means almost 12m euros and who will be subject to these licences. In addition, we have an increase for the cabinet of ministers without portfolios in charge of demographics and population policy, which is an increase of 25% whether, again, we may be predicting some unnecessary and counterproductive campaigns such as the one "Trad Don't Delay", "Enough Words Let Smack". As far as transparency is concerned, there is too much room for discretionary allocations of funds and clientelesis, primarily through subsidies and so on. Specialized services. As for further decentralisation, it is enough to see that 40% of the government's budget increases, where the largest amounts relate to transfers, and other levels of government. It is certainly positive that we have relatively high economic growth, which we have fiscal consolidation, an increase in capital investment, although taking into account everything, the big question is how these investments will be realised. What is much more important for continued growth is significant structural reforms that are not available, because they are necessary, because without it, this year's economic growth will be only an exception and this is why the European Bank's latest report on reconstruction and development is also talking about, and I would ask the Minister, what he and the Government intend to do, for example, on the basis of the following issues. Based on the global competitiveness index, Serbia is only 104 when it comes to the first pillar of institutions, and without the construction of institutions and the rule of law, there is no sustainable development. We're only in 101st place when it comes to the development of the financial market. 110th place according to the level of business sophistication. The last in the region at a percentage of the additional value, which is provided by small and medium-sized enterprises, is only 53%. And picturesquely, it takes discharging the economy, but to get me to figure out the budget debate. Our budget and economy are like the south of 1990, which was ahead of the church a few years ago, it is now settled, some parts have been changed so it will not stop and is not life-threatening, but it will not become a "Lada", let alone "BMV", which the minister was just talking about at the end of his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50130	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50131	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, the priority of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when we talk about the economic work, are as much of the growth rate as possible, the lower the unemployment rate, the higher the employment rate, and the higher the standard of living for our citizens. The results achieved after a difficult period of fiscal consolidation over the past few years and the results achieved this year and on the growth rate in the first nine months of 4.5% of GDP, which places Serbia among one of the fastest growing economies in Europe, a fiscal result that says that for the third year in a row we have a surplus in the history of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of Serbia, because it has never happened that three years, not one year, you have a surplus, which shows how much the government is responsible for the citizens and how much it watches out for every dinar that spends. I just gave you the data, and I've been looking at data for the past 15 years, never a lower unemployment rate, 11.3% in the third quarter of this year, never a higher employment rate of 49.2% is the result that has been released today by the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, where you have seen that over the past four years, 370,000 new employees are working in the economy of Serbia, from 2014 to 2018. These are the results of which we are particularly proud, and to add to this the reduction of our public debt to GDP, from 70% and something, about 80%, to 55.6% today with a further tendency to decrease, and these are the exact figures that both the World Bank and the IMF and the European Commission are talking about, in support of the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia being led in one correct way. That is why the 2019 budget is designed to continue with the growth of our economy, through a reduction in profit burden, through a large number of tax incentives, to continue to work on restoring our infrastructure through record-high capital investment, 30% more than this 2018, and to work on raising Serbian citizens' living standards even more, through increasing pensions and through increasing wages in the public sector and through an increase in the minimum labour price of 8.6%, which will be from 1 January 2019. Once again, I would like to congratulate our oldest citizens, today a one-time aid of three thousand dinars is paid and to thank them once again for the burden of the reforms they have put on their shoulders. Another brief comment on Slavica Djukic Dejanovic's budget. So you have a larger amount of money that's been assigned to what she's dealing with precisely for the reason we want to improve our talent, to deal with it. It is nice to say that there are as many babies in Serbia as possible, that as many babies in our country are born and, of course, through these measures of economic consolidation, economic growth, we keep small people here. I heard a little before and about the budget for the IT office. Well, yes, we are proud to go to the electronics office, the less and less documents are issued to Serbian citizens, the more services they can do online. This is a long-term definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We want to reach and outreach other countries on this issue, and we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50132	Thank you. The word is News Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50133	Dear Presidents, respected ministers and representatives of the Serbian government, respected fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS, and on my behalf, I would like this opportunity to commend the 2019 draft budget. I have carefully read this material and there is no dilemma that the budget is balanced and that at the same time it will have a social and development dimension with a deficit that is five billion less than this year. An increase in public sector wages by 33 billion dinars, including the salaries of doctors, professors, police and military. I also have to commend the planned 35 billion pension increase, which will improve our oldest citizens' standard of living. The budget also confirms that capital investments will be 30% higher than last year's budget and that large infrastructure projects have been taken into account. We'll have about 100 billion next year for subsidies, which means more money for economics, railways, roads, tourism and agriculture. I think it is important that all farmers in Serbia know that next year the agricultural budget will be seven billion dinars higher than this year. As for the transfer funds, I must stress that it is planned, for example, that the municipality of Surdulic from the finance ministry's budget next year will receive 238 million dinars, which is a significant support for the financing of current transactions from the local self-government sector. Minister, you know that local self-government pays to all employees of local self-government, as well as to finance pre-school institutions, and I ask you to increase this pay increase in the future too. As a municipality, we will make this effort to supplement some of the missing funds through the original revenues and will make maximum use of all legal opportunities to collect larger election revenues into the budget of the Municipality of Surdulic. In that sense, I would ask you, at the level of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, to consider one of my proposals. It's about Article 98. Proposal for a law on compensation for the use of public goods, which is also on the agenda of this session, which provides that the revenues made for the water compensations shall belong to the Republic's budget, and revenues from those fees to the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the Vojvodina budget. I think it would be useful for the infrastructure development of municipalities across Serbia to split the income by half, so that 50% of the revenues from the water compensation keep municipalities and cities, and 50% go to the Republic's budget. It's about significant assets, and you must have data and you can do a projection of how much money it is in a dinar. If 50% of that income were to be achieved directly by municipalities and cities under the legal obligation to invest in the development of local infrastructure, it would be a major momentum for each municipality. I ask you to think about it, because it's kind of a fair solution, and every dinar of original income means a lot to local self-government. I'll set an example. In the municipality of Surdulica you know that there is a water factory “Rossa”, or “Vlasinka” that works under the company “Coca Car”. According to this proposal and the table you've given, 1.23 dinars on each bottled water goes into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and all the peddlers, trucks and all that goes through the Surdulica municipality, and we need from the local budget to finance the repairs of the same, so please, if you can do this distribution like this, and I've given the amendment to this topic and I hope, Minister, that you will support it. I also want to praise that the government has recognised the importance of project financing through EU IPA projects and I see that the draft budget provides budget co-financing of concrete projects worth 4.3 billion dinars next year, while the IPA funds will provide 3.8 billion. As I come from the municipality of Surdulics, which makes maximum use of IPA funds before border co-operation, I must stress that we have implemented projects worth more than five million euros that have improved the living conditions of the citizens of Surdulica. My idea is to implement the largest project south of Nis through IPA funds and this project to build a sewer ring around the Vlassin Lake. The European Union would provide 50% of the funds, but it is necessary for the government to provide the rest of the money through the budget, which is about four million euros. That's what I talked to President Vukic about, and he supported this project. In this way they would employ at least 1,000 people in the Pcinj County, and this would result in a healthier environment, development of tourism, fishing, better quality of source water and more foreign investment. That's why I'd like to ask you to start by getting the Ministry of Finance to provide money for the construction of the planning documents, and then put the whole project in the budget with the support of 50% of the IPA funds. There is one thing on the agenda that concerns me, and that is the measure of banning employment in the public sector, which will be in force by the end of next year. I'm not saying this because I intend to hire my party's sympathisers, but from objective problems affecting local self-government, including Surdulic. Because of this repetitive measure, I come into a situation where we're left without engineers or geodes, because they won't have anyone to do a review, to verify it, or to carry out a technical reception. It blocks the work of every municipality, and I'm not talking about doctors who, if we don't hire direct damage, suffer patients, and these are our fellow citizens. So I'd like to ask you to reconsider this measure at the beginning of next year or find some other way, but not to block the functioning of the entire system. Finally, I have to look back at another cost planned in the judiciary budget, and it is about the cost of fines, because I have seen here that all basic and higher courts in Serbia will have over a billion dinars for fines, which is close to 10m euros, not counting other courts and prosecutors. In only two cases, the Surdulic municipality had to help and pay for the damages of one school of 20 million dinars for condemning two teachers who were unfoundedly fired, so the court's ruling was sent back to work. The prosecutor who was then prosecuted and baselessly detained in order to provide a member of the DS re-election at the director's office today has progressed from the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vranj, and the cost of 20 million had to be paid by the citizens of Surdulica. I would ask you and the Justice Minister to find a way to transfer all this expenditure to bad judges, bad prosecutors who make such expenses, but not to citizens of Serbia who are not to blame. Once again, I would like to thank you as a member of the Serbia Football Federation Executive Board for the National Stadium Building Project, to wish you to implement this budget the way you planned next year. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50134	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50135	Dear Ministers, of course, that the budget is the most significant legal act to be adopted in a fiscal year in one Assembly and of course the budget is the most significant fiscal document to be adopted in one fiscal year. The budget is a plan and a real category. Serbia's budget for 2019 is a real budget and it meets all the principles of budget planning. It's a budget that means that we've been planning revenue conservatively, expenditure realistically, is in balance. His position was given by the Fiscal Council, the IMF and, Mr. Minister, I could finish my presentation here, so I could finish my presentation here. This is the budget. Public debate in the Serbian Parliament in public Serbia is simply a surprise for me – it is too easy for you. That's the result of a good budget. The budget is a picture of the time we live in, these generations, and the relationship to inherited national goods. The budget of the Republic of Serbia certainly is important and it implies that we are working better and better in the next period of time. If I look back at the problems that are being directed, the criticism, not to say theoretically about the budget, in fact, we can hear and hear that there is only one problem, and that problem is Serbia is not growing fast enough in the economy. It's not a problem with the 2019 budget, it's not a topic of debate, it's a macroeconomic indicator. The fiscal council says we're not growing fast enough, opposition MPs tell us we're not growing fast enough, and we're growing by 4.5% this year. We're growing at an average rate of 3.5% and that's the essence of functioning over the last three years. They're bringing us closer to the EU countries. They say -- no, you are not as good as EU countries, not saying that EU countries have dozens of advantages in growing economies compared to us. All the countries they compare us with have long been in the EU, have a single market, have access to European funds, have everything Serbia will yet have. In such conditions we grow as much as those countries. When we talk about the budget, we're actually talking about a whole new system of functioning, a system of values in which man comes first, man. And when we build new hospitals, we build them for Serbia and Serbs. When we build new highways, we build them both for Serbs and for Serbia and for all citizens of Serbia. When we raise salaries and raise salaries by raising salaries in the real sector and in the public sector, we also raise pensions, in fact, for people living in Serbia. Too many of us, Mr. Minister, have seen the wrong economic processes. Too many economic processes we looked at were at the edge of the Serbian state's poverty. That's why the fight for economic truth, and against economic lies, is also a debate on this budget. The keyspring economic parameters, and it's not about the economy, is political stability. Without political stability, there is no strong economy in Serbia. Without political stability in the region, there is no strong Serbian economic people and Serbian economic space. That's the point. The first macroeconomic growth parameter of the Serbian economy was more or less absorbed. It is simply an incorrect topic and the Serbian economy is growing in the coming period. No one said anything about monetary stability except you. That's not the point. This is not said, although monetary stability is a key factor in economic and presumption of a successful economy. Inflation of 2.2% is not inflation in Serbia, but inflation in the EU, and inflation in Serbia is also 2.2% in October. Serbian citizens, when inflation in Serbia has been about the same in the last six months, is not nearly identical to inflation in the EU 2.2%? When the currency was at 0.35 growth, even in these moments we also record positive growth relative to foreign currencies. So we're not talking about the second parameters of macroeconomic stability. When I talk about the third parameter, you said 370,000 people were employed. The unemployment rate is dropping to 11.3%, but 370,000 new jobs, and we are falling, ministers, and the number of public sector employees, and the number of employees is much higher in the real sector. So, what criticism of someone telling us from the ruling political party? Tell us what? Should we talk about the budget? They didn't talk about it. You've made it very nice and clear. There are, in fact, four key parameters that talk about this budget. Serbia is funding an increase in wages and pensions, increasing personal consumption, increasing public spending by 4% of GDP, what we dreamed and sought. Serbia relieves the private, business sector for 120 billion dinars. It's actually a budget debate, and in that debate, you don't have any serious issues. I could talk tens and tens of minutes like this, about the deficit, which is at 0.5% on the general state level, or 0.3% on the Republic budget. Planned, it'll be a surplus. I, unlike you, Minister, think we should go to the 0.5% deficit in realisation, because the Serbian economy at this point can withstand a 0.5% deficit at the general state level. That would be our space for even bigger growth. To talk about the public debt, which is 50% below for about a month, to talk about the 102 billion interest, or the 12.5% reduction, and that is the basic source, one of the main sources of the budget surplus that the state of Serbia has. Let's talk about economic parameters, but why talk, we can brag. You do that, the Prime Minister does, the president of the state does. The assembly has no reason to, as an MP, to mention what no one tells us is not true. They're only talking about growth. They say – Serbia does not grow. Again, let me tell the citizens of Serbia, when we last told the Assembly that Serbia is not growing fast enough, 4.5% is not enough, or 3.5% likely? They tell us in the Assembly that we defend politics. In fact, their debate on economics is just a political issue. We fully understand that Serbia currently has an idea, a vision and a mission to make Serbia's citizens better. When we vote for the budget, in fact, we vote to tell Serbia's dream, to make Serbia an economically decorated country. We vote for Serbia never to experience inflationary 1990s and national demeanors again. In fact, we vote, Mr. Minister, for a thousand of my little Kragujevac neighbors, to play basketball in the school hall today, in two schools in Kragujevac. One's 40, the other's 108 years old. We vote, in fact, not to endanger anyone's economic dream, as our own have threatened. I can talk about the budget for another 50 minutes and I wouldn't say and I wouldn't mention everything that's positive, but not to endanger anyone's dream and make Serbia what it is, to be a small part of that Serbia and that goal. That's why, Mr. Minister, I am voting for the 2019 budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50136	Thank you. The word has a letter from Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50137	Madam President, Mr. Minister, excuse me, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, as few minutes as I can speak of 63 points of the agenda that are from the fields of culture, agriculture, science, economics, obliges me to talk about the essence, and the point is, I ask you to try to be serious, at least these two minutes as much as I have. We hear incredible fairy tales here about dreams that not only represent some kind of SNS message that they came here today to talk about, but they represent the humiliation and mocking of citizens. Your unreality with how citizens live today is amazing. You, Mr. Minister, are the prime minister of Serbia, said this budget is, I quote, just and developmental. I'm just going to ask you a few things to tell me exactly where is justice for pensioners, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to whom you've kidnapped pensions, and today here, Minister, I'm asking you to stop humiliating the pensioners, to tell them that the government is giving them some 3,000 today. You don't give them anything. That, Minister, is not your money. It's their money that you took from them against the constitution, so then, by returning the part you took from them, you represent it as some kind of giving. That's not your money. You control it and control it unjustly. Where exactly is justice in that? Where exactly is it, Minister, that justice in the fact that over 370m euros in services per contract are in this budget? What kind of favors are they for? Who exactly are these contracts going to be signed with? Where exactly is justice in the fact that cultural subsidies are less in this budget compared to last year by 22.50%? Where exactly is justice for citizens to resubsidise and finance "Er Serbia" and for "Er Serbia" to charge them a glass of water when they have the opportunity, they are happier, to fly and to do jobs or to travel privately? Where, Minister, exactly is justice in the fact that 250m euros are being saved by the Republic of Serbia, and we hear incredible commendations for this incredible political, visionary dream, that you will take a loan in the amount of annual savings for financial consolidation, how many have you kidnapped the pensioners because you are going to build a national stadium? Where exactly is justice in that injustice incredible in your politics, for which the sole and sole goal is to preserve the SNS in power? Minister, where exactly is justice in the fact that this year stands out for office, for Tomislav Nikolic, for co-operation with Russia and China, for something I'm sure you can't repeat for what exactly? Where exactly is the justice that you do not correct these proposed laws and that you humiliate the charity of the family and mothers who receive several hundred and several thousand dinars instead of the way it was supposed to be? That doesn't fix it either. Where exactly is justice for something I've been talking about for the fourth year? And here we are now getting that something like that to be lifted. For four years, I've been asking you to put an end to the so-called. a temporary ban on employment, because it is not even a temporary measure because it extends from year to year, nor is it a ban because it applies to every decent citizen who decides to be naturally directed, to gain a degree fairly and to work in those areas that are naturally targeted for the state. There's no room for them. There is room for members and supporters of the SNS, there is room for SNS deputies who work at a higher medical school, while teachers stay on the street. This is a budget where there is no justice, and when we talk about development, we only talk about the development of the BIA budget, we talk about the development of the police and the military, and not about those honorable soldiers, members of the internal affairs, but about force and repression. That's what the point is. This isn't a budget that's in the interest of citizens. This is the budget for the preservation of SNS in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50138	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50139	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is not for SNS but for all citizens of Serbia. Justice is that since 2012, we have had to pay back the debts, the ones you made by 2012. Justice is that for everything you've done before. We had to take that burden on our backs and bring the country from minus 3% of the decline of the social product and in general all business activities up to plus 4.2%. It's not that simple. That's why the Serbian citizens recognized the SNS as being able to get the country out of the ambience that you pushed it into. As far as the budget is concerned, through the debate, to sneak into mud and MPs working in state institutions, they are not employed as high school deputies, but have been employed as professors, taught some schools, completed state schools, mastered, doctored and had a choice in titles. So, don't do that, because a lot of things that we could talk about your personnel structure, about how you and your colleagues graduated from schools and where you did everything and how you spent Serbia's budget on your needs wouldn't go to anyone here in favor of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50140	Next speaker, Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50141	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft budget law for 2919 was the result of a reform process that the government of the Republic of Serbia began in 2014. I would like to emphasise and praise the good practice that continues when planning the budget, i.e. I would like to say that incomes and expenditures are realistically planned, so today we are talking about a balanced budget here. The planned deficit is fiscally responsible and, as such, it will allow for the maintenance of macroeconomic stability achieved in the previous period and will lead to a reduction in public debt participation in GDP. The savings made in previous years, thanks to, above all, to the difficult fiscal consolidation measures, opened a space for never more investment, so that the 2019 budget plans 30% more capital investment funds than was planned in 2018. So 220 billion are planned for the 2019 budget of the Republic of Serbia for capital investment, and the minister has repeatedly listed during his presentation the more important capital investment. I don't want to say it again. I just want to say that it's a lot of schools, kindergartens, hospitals, health homes, miles of highway, and for that very reason we can rightly say that this budget is developmental. The 2019 budget is also socially responsible, as it is, above all, focused on increasing the standard of living for all Serbian citizens. In addition, it says that wages in Serbia in the public sector will be up to 7% to 12% from January 1st. To this end, 33 billion were planned in the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget, more than it was in 2018. So 12% increase in net earnings will be made by nurses and technicians, 10% increase will be made by doctors, 9% by social protection institutions, education, the military, police, 8.5% by the tax administration and customs administration and 7% by other budget users. What is important for Serbian citizens to know is that as of January 1st 2019, minimum earnings will be higher in Serbia, so it will amount to 27,000 dinars. Pensions from 8% to 13% have been increased, and today all our pensioners have received a check of 3,000 dinars. After the government of the Republic of Serbia secured macroeconomic stability, primarily through successful fiscal consolidation measures, the possibility of reducing the fiscal burden of profit by 1%, i.e. from 63% to 62%, and thus dissipating the economy. The budget for 2019 is proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance are running a responsible budgetary policy, and it is precisely because Serbian citizens in the coming years can expect new increases in salaries and pensions, new investments, new economic reliefs, but mainly from real sources, and in line with what we earn, because the policy of this government is the only right, possible and right policy that we spend in line with what we earn, because this is the only way that Serbia stands firmly on its feet. In the day to vote, MPs from the SNS, and hopefully our coalition partners, will support the draft budget law, as well as other draft laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50142	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50143	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, respected fellow MPs, given that today's debate is one of the most important points of the agenda during a whole calendar year, I will not really declare myself on something that is highly competent and highly professional, my distinguished associates, colleagues, comrades, and these are authorised representatives of Dusan Bajatovic and distinguished counterpart Radenkovic. The only question I want to ask you, Honorable Minister Mali, is that it really is a very good and well-organized budget, just one, to call it, profession is not sufficiently recognizable in this budget when it comes to profit growth. Growth in the public sector is very well-designed and what seems to be a developmental part of the budget is, not just an investment renaissance, not just an economic renaissance, but what is linked to a better standard of the population through the growth of profits. The question arises – what about the judiciary, what about prosecutors and judges, what about those who will in any case have the opportunity to ask a question somewhere, and I personally and my colleagues in the parliamentary group would not want this issue to be affirmed, that the dam is considered to be neglected, whether the growth of earnings is covered by the holders of judicial functions? Next thing I know, the law... They did. Thank you. The next question that arises and, as a point of the agenda, is the bankruptcy law. The Honorable Ministers, as a bill of bankruptcy, and the amendment of the law, are very well designed and what is affirmative in this law is an increased role of bankruptcy creditors in the appointment of a bankruptcy manager. However, on behalf of the SPS here, I would like to make a series of suggestions that, dear Minister, I hope you will accept. They're not proposed to the amendments, but they're extremely well-intentioned suggestions. It's about the next one. Article 5 supplementing Article 35 provides that at the first session of the trustee's assembly, creditors whose claims are considered likely to be more than 50% of the total claims shall have the right to participate in the appointment, i.e. the appointment of a bankruptcy manager. This is about the first confidential hearing. Why? Because a congregation of trustees is elected at the first confidential hearing. The question arises – will these 50% at the first trust hearing, as likely claims, be at the same time found at the trial hearing 50%? Is that how certain bankruptcy trusts are brought into discrimination, which will have the privilege of taking part in the first trust hearing in the setting up of a bankruptcy manager, and after that there will be no doubt less? Secondly, what's very important here is the fact that we shouldn't have frequent changes, changes in creditor credits affect the length of the bankruptcy process. After all, we are entering one risk of violating the party's right to trial within a reasonable period of time. As for the advance on the costs of the bankruptcy procedure, Your Honor, I would ask you to bear in mind one fact, which no one here can doubt, which is that the costs significantly exceed the amounts defined or defined in Article 59(2) of the proposed law. This is where we are, or proposed, rankings on micro, small, medium and large legal persons and we see that the costs are reduced to 50, 200, 600 and million dinars. Fifty thousand dinars, respected ministers, are indeed a sum that won't be enough and I'm afraid that's how a bankruptcy manager and all the bodies of bankruptcy will come into one problem. The problem is related to the reconciliation of basic obligations. If we keep in mind that 30,000 dinars will only be paid for advertising, out of 50,000 dinars, only 20,000 dinars remain. You need to replace locks, pay administrative expenses, a lot of what. What can we do with 20,000 dinars? I would ask you to increase these amounts by 100% and make it a committee amendment, given that we have not tolerated the amendments in that direction. At the very end, since these are extremely well-intentioned suggestions, I am glad that my colleague Vasura is here and she can hear my suggestions, as really well-intentioned, because our co-operation has always been extremely correct, please keep them in mind, and the MP group of SPS will, in any case, support the full set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50144	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a finance minister, Dr. Sinish Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50145	Thank you very much. I think the suggestions you've made are very useful, in terms of advice, and I'll talk to the Minister of Economy about it today. What's important to me, just so you know that regardless of the rights of minority creditors to vote on a bankruptcy manager, so that later it can be determined that they have fewer rights than they did at the first hearing at any point after that the bankruptcy manager can change. So that flexibility exists throughout the process. Otherwise, the amendments to this law have just been initiated by our desire to make the procedure as transparent as possible, to respect the opinion of small creditors and ultimately to make progress in this area that is very important to us on the "Dujing Business List" of the World Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50146	Thank you. The word is Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50147	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, centralisation has gained a form of self-government in Serbia. With regard to the financing of local self-government, the Budget Law is unconstitutional, it is contrary to the Budgetary System Act, it opposes the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which the Assembly ratified almost ten years ago, and thus is opposed to our internal law and on this basis. With regard to how much money it would take for 145 cities and municipalities in this budget to be defined when it comes to non-purpose transfers, the city of Sabac has been allocated 479m less, so fourm euros, for Paracin 250m dinars, so 2m euros, for Chatin 95m, so 800,000 euros. Disrespecting the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government and the Law on the Budgetary System led Leskovac, which has 138,000 people in 2017, to receive 12.1m euros from the Republika Srpska, Kraljevo's budget, which has 120,000 people, received 6.75m euros, Jagodina, who has 70,000 euros, received five million euros, Shabac, which has 116,000 inhabitants, received 2.5m euros. There is no legal based nor logical matrix that can lead to such a proposal, which, once again I will say, is unconstitutional so we will at the Constitutional Court and discuss when you vote this, if you vote. The current reserve in this budget is scheduled for three billion dinars. I would like to know, Mr. Minister, how much money will you from the current reserve by 31 December to define the government's conclusions with certain municipalities and cities in Serbia? The city of Belgrade received fourm euros from the Republika Srpska budget in 2018. The city of Belgrade spent threem euros in 2018, respected citizens of Serbia, to buy jewelry for the New Year's in Serbia today. In 2017, from the current budget reserve to cities and municipalities, the government's conclusion was divided, Mr. Minister Ruzic, since you were not referred to what you said on television, 5.5 billion dinars. That's why this self-government had to be found in front of international institutions. Mayor Sapca, president of the party Together for Serbia and one of the founders of the Alliance for Serbia, spoke of all this before the Council of Europe, before the Congress of Local Authorities in Strasbourg. Since, of course, serious international institutions have dealt with this dramatic and drastic violation of the law, carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the nature of decisions taken by the parliament of the Republic of Serbia at the beginning of February of the month...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50148	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Your colleagues have spent their time scheduled for your MP group. Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Blaža Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50149	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, we have before us the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, as well as a set of reform laws that will contribute to further raising the standard of living, economic growth and even more intense economic progress of our country. The 2019 budget is a social aspect associated with raising living standards, never increasing wages and pensions, and we also have record allocations for capital investments. With this law, we will allow economic recovery to be our economy as attractive and competitive as possible. The economic activity in 2018 records intense growth and the arrival of a large number of foreign investors. Reform processes in our country are being conducted on sound grounds of fiscal and monetary stability. They have raised the credibility and attractiveness of our foreign investment economy. What's important is to mention, for the third year in a row, we have a surplus in the budget. We have unemployment down from over 25% to 11.3%. We managed to bring serious foreign investors. We have improved Serbia's international reputation, pension growth, and one that corresponds to our country's economic development. We should continue to work and invest in our economy, education, culture, health care, our language, digitisation and continue to employ Serbia. So it's a shame that one of the leaders of the five-octobaric horde who burned and robbed the House of the National Assembly, present here at last, speaks in this way about the economic growth of our country. The same ones who dealt most brutally with Serbian citizens through the so-called. The 2001 crisis headquarters when they broke into public enterprises and local self-government and kicked people out of work, the same previous speaker who destroyed the city of Sabac with catastrophic privatisations, and then I guess as a reward, as it was at that time, and now I don't think it was different, became a double minister -- the Minister of Agriculture. He threw it on his knees and destroyed the Serb village and, according to counterpart Atlagic, slaughtered a cattle fund of over 250,000 throats in a year. Then, as justice minister, more than 850 judges fired overnight, only because they did not want to judge what Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Petrovic and others wanted to do so. And of course none of that was sacred to them. We can also forget that, the famous idiotic question in front of the International Court of Justice, also in the creation of Boris Tadic, Dusan Petrovic, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic and Dragan Dilas, when the problem of Kosovo landed in the EU and thus brought Kosovo and Metohija into the situation today. In the end, I would just say - Ministers, full support for this budget and go ahead. Thank you. (Dusan Petrovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50150	You haven't mentioned a single word. You cried all the time, and who, say the name, say the name? (Dusan Petrovic: Yes, he mentioned me, how not? No, you yourself said in your discussion that the mayor of Capca wrote against the state. (Dusan Petrovic: No, the International Court of Justice on Kosovo and Metohija. He didn't mention you. Dear Messenger, I follow closely. You wrote another court. He didn't tell you at all, and you yourself boasted that the mayor of Sapca wrote against the state letter and complained about the situation in Serbia, which we talked about in one session. [[Dusan Petrovic: Please, I have the right to replication, said the name and last name, ask him.]] You weren't, I'm sorry. Stay a little longer, please. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50151	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, we have before us very important laws from the area of finance, and this is the most important law in the area of finance – the proposal for a budget for 2019, with accompanying documents, or decisions. There is also a set of other financial laws in the service, which will benefit from the implementation of the planned 2019 budget, but there are also laws in the field of state administration and local self-government, as a very important law on the protection against radiation security and security, which was submitted by the People's Parliament and the National Assembly President, Ms. Maja Gojkovic. The Serbian Progressive Party, in voting day, will vote in favour of all proposed laws for the reason that the focus of these laws is, above all, an improvement in the economy, or an improvement in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Under two – disbursement of the economy from all those commitments continue to meet all those preconditions that are related to the competitiveness of our economy. The third reason the SNS will vote is that the budget is balanced in such a way as to meet the needs of citizens. Citizens' needs are number one priority for Alexander Vukic and SNS. That is certainly why we will support these laws in the voting day. For those fosterers who care for the poorest citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I must say that this is the only budget that is balanced, a budget that is developed, a budget based on sound, fundamental foundations, which is on healthy economic growth, it can be adequately protected by the poorest. And by this very bill of law, no right that concerns the poorest citizens, which is at the division of the Ministry of Labour, 30, has been abolished. All of those rights of martial law and social protection, in the area of family and children's protection, remain in the draft budget, and no single dinar has been reduced. As this government works responsibly, it also shows a connection between science and economy, by setting up a Science Fund, which is certainly a major advance and one of the ways for young people scientists to stay in our country and work in scientific and research parks. What I would also like to point out is that, at the Department of Labour's division in Section 30, in the division of the Trust Fund for the Promotion of Persons with Disabilities, the total budget has been increased and I want to say that this government has a responsible approach to that, one of the most vulnerable categories of the population, by cooperating and providing financial support for more than 500 local associations and more than 30 alliances. In voting day, we will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50152	Thank you. The next speaker is Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50153	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today and in previous days, we are discussing the most important things for our country, the most important topic. The topic is the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. I would not bother our citizens too much with numbers, but with some concrete facts, those that people care about and those who care about their lives, which is that with one responsible social policy, responsible state-of-the-art policy, we have brought finance in the Republic of Serbia into such a state that we can, on a realistic, sustainable and stable basis, raise and pay in the public sector, and raise to a significant extent pensions, which are more than ever, more than ever in the Republic of Serbia. I think the current finance minister, Mr Sinisa Mali, has contributed significantly to this, which has shown that financial management is responsible. For example, in Belgrade City, during the mayoral mandate of Belgrade, when Belgrade's debt was halved and thus earned our trust and trust in Alexander Vukic to be also Minister of Finance and justifies him from day to day. We've heard one criticism that this is a military, war budget, so for God's sake, every country must have a strong army and a strong police force, for its own safety, not to conquer and take others, but to be safe, for the people of it to live peacefully and peacefully. In order for investment to come to that country, you must have legal and security stability and security. That is why it is good that we are investing in both our military and our police, but also those civil servants who criticise this budget will not say that to a significant extent we raise salaries and nurses and teachers and teachers and teachers and doctors, that we are trying to keep those people who left Serbia most often, seeking a better life in some other Western European countries. In the focus of the 2019 budget and the focus of SNS policy remain citizens, their needs remain, and I am convinced that with stronger, even better policy, I am sure, because we have people who can implement it in the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic as President of the Republic. I am convinced that in 2019 we will achieve even more economic growth, so we will be able to continue to increase our citizens' standards in the following year, and those who say that it is a little three and a half, four and a half, five percent, may only remember their minus three and a half percent and compare it, it will be quite enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50154	The word is Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50155	I thank the president. Dear Ministers with Associates, People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, well, certainly today is before us the most significant law of finance, the 2019 Budget Law, I would like to refer to the reasons relating to tourism for the 2019 budget on this occasion. However, it is important to say that as early as 2016, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2016 to 2025 and that exactly the 2019 budget is in line with the objectives set by this strategy, which is the sustainable economic, environmental and social development of tourism in Serbia, strengthening the competitiveness of the tourism economy, increasing the direct, overall participation of the tourism sector in GDP and the total number of jobs in the tourism sector and certainly improving Serbia's image, both in Europe and the world. We are witnessing that in 2012, tourism participation in GDP was 5.4% and that in 2018 the percentage was seven and an even greater trend of growth is expected. It is also important to say that in 2012, the number of persons employed in tourism was 54,000, but in that same year 2012, I have to say that 10,000 persons employed in tourism were left out of work, and today that number is over 80,000 and is expected literally by 2025 to double the number of persons employed in the tourism sector. The income achieved by Serbia in 2018, the foreign inflow is final with nine months of 1.2 billion euros and is expected to be 1.35 billion euros by the end of the year, which is 15% higher than in 2017, and the number of foreign visitors in Serbia is also significantly increased even over 15%. All this says that there is one political security in Serbia and that, of course, foreign guests would not come to visit our country. In addition, Belgrade registered a significant foreign exchange inflow in August of this year compared to previous August 2017, 26% more visitation by foreign tourists and reached a significant foreign exchange inflow, and nearly 100% of the hotels were filled in Belgrade's municipalities. One of the important things to say about the budget, relating to the tourism section, is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to single out 500 million for vouchers to subsidise the use of accommodation services, which means that this government is socially responsible for its population and will thus affect raising the standard of living of its population, which is one of the priorities of this 2019 budget. Also, the budget envisions development and investment in Serbia's spas, which are untapped potency. We noticed that a large number of tourists from Serbia are going to other spas in Slovenia and Hungary, which is what we have in some way the foreign exchange outflow of our country. In the voting day, I will vote for this law as well as for a set of other proposed laws, as well as for my colleagues from the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50156	Thank you. The word is Maja Machužića Puzic. He's not here. The word is by Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50157	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, the honourable MPs, the previous speakers from my parliamentary group made a clear position of the SPS and explained in a reasoned manner why we will support the 2019 draft budget, as well as all the accompanying laws which are the topic of the parliamentary debate of this assembly session. Since my home, when it comes to professional commitment, college and the scientific and research community of our society, I would especially like to refer to a whole new bill that we are considering today in the context of the accompanying laws. It is about the draft law on the Fund for the Science of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this bill is extremely important and that, with the inclusion of thousands of young PhDs in ongoing scientific and research projects, it is among the most valuable results of the ministry's work in the past year. The Fund Act lays down a legal framework for the establishment of a Science Fund with an excessive objective of ensuring a stable, predictable and sustainable financing of scientific and research projects. I also find it extremely important that the adoption of this law creates legal assumptions for the implementation of the necessary reforms in our scientific and research community. In our community, the need for reforms has been recognised, as well as the need to ensure stability in work for our scientific institutions. That is why I think it is extremely important that, as a newspaper, it is also an institutional funding of institutions whose work is mostly science and research. So it is clear that the policy of the Government and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is to preserve and strengthen our scientific institutes, but that our scientific research potentials are further developed and adequately used. Dear People's MPs, no doubt, our most valuable scientific potential is our researchers. Our scientific community today consists of 16.592 researchers, of which about 62% or slightly more than 10,000 researchers are doctors of science. Our scientists and researchers work mainly at universities and scientific institutes, and few are engaged in non-financial, i.e. the business sector. The important scientific resources of Serbia are both modern and well-equipped laboratories of colleges and institutes, scientific centres, visual agricultural goods and many other material resources in which significant financial resources have been invested over the past years. That our scientific community has an extraordinary research potential, testimony has been given to a number of our scientific results, not a small number of which have been published in leading international scientific journals. I mention this part of the result, because their publication preceded a positive review by the most valuable experts in a particular scientific field. Many of our scientific results are quoted by our colleagues from other countries, and many of them have been used to set up new hypotheses in their research. The important results of our scientific community are patents, new technical and technological solutions. For example, new technologies in the food industry, new varieties of plants and various innovations in many scientific areas are important for the economic and other prosperity of one society. The result of our scientific community is also the high position of our universities on lists showing the world's university ratings. I remind you that Belgrade University is ranked among the 400 best of over 25,000 world universities on the prestigious Shanghai list. A particularly high Belgrade University is ranked in the area of food, technology and food science, where it holds an extraordinary 42nd place. Dear People's MPs, with each of our top scientific results, there has been a lot of knowledge, effort, published works in leading world magazines, enthusiasm of young people and talented researchers, scientific associates and commitment of university professors. Then it is clear why the draft law on the Fund for Science deserves both attention and praise, because it provides new and greater opportunities for our scientific community to achieve its research goals in the field of basic, development and technological programmes through four years, two years or one-year projects. I am convinced that our research and reform processes that follow will contribute to a stronger bond of science and our society, because I believe that the common goal of all of us, that our society be a society of knowledge, and that our scientific results will be the pillars of economic growth, the improvement of the competitiveness of our economy, social and cultural progress, and all with the aim of improving the standards and quality of life of all our citizens. Therefore, the Socialist Party of Serbia provides strong support for science and all efforts to return to the pedestal that belongs to it in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50158	Thank you. The word is Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50159	Mr. Chairman and Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, once again, to see what our 2019 budget of the Republic of Serbia looks like on paper. What is most important, apart from being this difficult, is that it is well balanced and therefore all praises to the Government, because this budget for 2019, I am the MEP of the third term in this National Assembly, is probably the best budget we have discussed so far. Yesterday and today, the minister has already said several times how many funds were allocated primarily for infrastructure, for capital projects, and then for agriculture, but what I would like to put an accent on in my presentation is, well-respected ministers, one application, and as far as public administration is concerned, the local self-government and the employment ban regulation that will apply in 2019. If the government has already decided to extend this regulation to 2019, I would simply ask Minister Ružić and Minister Maloko to answer me – is there a possibility that young people who are first employed, regardless of whether they have finished high school or high school, or have a higher education, can be excluded if they come as trainees to municipal public administrations from this quota, because we are, unfortunately, in such a situation in quite a local self-government that we have a real problem with functioning. This problem is simple because also something natural, something by leaving people, we have a shortage of people in the municipal administration, we have a lot of jurisdiction that new laws transfer to local self-government, and we simply don't have people who can bring it all out. Therefore, I ask that my proposal be seriously considered, to say once again, young people who are only being hired for the first time, to stay in smaller environments, do not go to large cities and that their employment can go to the cost of the municipality, that traineeship period that lasts for up to a year, but that it does not enter this employment ban quota. On the other hand, something I wanted to mention, and I already think I've pointed out more than once, and some MPs said that in the debate behind us, is setting the criteria for transfer funds to local self-government. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Mali, that you've arranged this budget well, and I think it's time for the next 12 months or a year for the elections to be arranged and in an adequate way for the public to understand both how and how certain local self-governments receive transfer funds. On the other hand, it's good to increase the agricultural budget. The year behind us, this 2018, is probably the most difficult for a Serbian and forest peasant in the last 30 years, primarily because of elementary disasters. I would ask you, one and the other ministers, to find the funds and to buy anti-urban missiles by the time the 15th of April, by the beginning of the city's defence season. These are not large funds, according to some of our research, it is about 6.5 to 7m euros in the beginning that our peasants who depend on the clear sky and depending on weather conditions do not pass as in most of the city affected by municipalities in this year 2018. That's why it's very important for these resources to be found in time, so that we don't later from the budget reserves and with the rest of the stuff to patch up and buy these missiles. So, let's get them to the shooters by April 15th. What is also commendable, Mr. Minister, is yesterday's announcement, and this is seen in this budget, that somewhere up to three billion dinars will be clearly intended for the construction of local roads. That's good and we should all commend it, first of all, that a lot of local self-government, unfortunately, has problems, has previous debts. What you have also promised us, that you will clearly lead the investigation and the National Assembly and the Committee to inform how some local self-governments have been completely illegally given consent from previous finance ministers to be in charge and spend advances of two, three or four local budgets. These are all very important things. It is important that this budget is well balanced and that is why I will support this budget in the voting day, and I hope that it will bring a lot of good to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50160	Thank you. The word has a minister of state administration and local self-government, Mr Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50161	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Jovanovic, given that this issue has been raised over the past three days, I think it is important for citizens to know that they are not banned from public service employment. What is also important is that, in one part of 2013 cuts in the number of employees, the rationalisation of the number of public sector employees is the measures that have contributed most to the reduction of expenditure, and thus the success of fiscal consolidation. So we have parallel two processes where we are practically now implementing the optimization process with this rationalization and thus ensuring fiscal stability. We have decided to extend the application of this law until the end of 2019, in order to achieve precisely the objectives of fiscal policy aimed at maintaining or maintaining fiscal stability and that is what the intensity and reason for the extension of this decision was. However, due to the positive effects of these measures that we have applied as the Government of the Republic of Serbia over the past five years, much less restrictive decision on the need for new employment is possible, and that is the fact. We will look at more efficient ways to solve this problem next year, but what will be the model that is certainly most favourable, is that the budget clearly defines the personnel plan and that it is practically a win-win combination for the solution to this problem, but it is important that citizens know that there is no saying that there is no employment. Certainly, the controlled employment that is now being carried out is a way for fiscal consolidation to be preserved, preserved, and, in doing so, all these requirements, legitimate requirements, of course, which exist and by the units of local self-government to be respected in an adequate manner and are certainly decided on by the government's commission. In that sense, I really think we've taken big steps forward. One data is very important, we must bear in mind that public administration and the public sector are all that are not public enterprises. It is in this segment of society that 468,000 people are working, and since December 2013, when the measures started until October 2018, so this year, the number that has been reduced has been 47,471. That's enough to conclude that, of course, we have had parallel to that possibility of doing controlled work, rationalizing, synchronizing and redistributing within the system itself, that where there is a need, we don't practically carry out linear rationalization, someone's going to say layoffs, but we're going to take care of what's important sectors and what's in our focus, like health care, nurses, doctors, inspectors, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50162	Thank you, Mr. Rose. The word is Sonja Vlahović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50163	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, our Serbia is on a good, healthy path towards further economic, economic growth and development. Success means doing the best we can with what we have. Our government and our President Alexander Vukic have proved that work is the key to every success. They built the success of inherited failure. After a successful fiscal consolidation from 2015 to 2017, the evaded public debt crisis and ensuring macroeconomic stability, following severe economic measures and reforms from 2014. I'll be proud to point out those good results. Unemployment was reduced to 11.9% and in 2012 it was 25.2%. Youth unemployment decreased 50%, from 51% to 27.5%. The public sector has reduced the number of unemployed and the private sector has increased the number of employees. The third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget, the budget ends with a surplus, the public debt is constantly falling and at the end of 2017 it is 26.6% of GDP, a few years ago it was 70% of GDP. Inflation is 2.3% and economic growth for the first nine months of 2017 is 2.3%. The draft budget for 2019 is balanced, rational and characterized by the social aspect. The increase in the standard of living of citizens increases wages and pensions from 7% to 12%, by giving healthcare professionals the highest increase in police, military, teachers. The development aspect, large investment infrastructures in the separation of capital investment over 30% of the 2019 budget will be foreseen for capital investments. So, 30% more than in 2017, 220 billion dinars are scheduled for capital investments of those 220 billion are planned to end the bypass around Belgrade, a large number of new bridges, tunnels, health institutions, schools, kindergartens, hospitals. So, the development of the economy and the further growth of our economy, the reduction of the payload of 63% to 62%. In the voting day, I will support this draft budget, of course, and a set of all reform laws, as well as all proposals on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50164	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The word is Maria Yevdzic. She's not present. The word is Maria Janjušević. She's not present. The word is Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50165	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs, it is our duty and duty to the citizens of Serbia to continue on the way up, because whoever wants and knows it has proven to be able. The government of the Republic of Serbia is certainly a great responsibility, but a great opportunity and honor. Guidelines for reforming public finance management through application of programme budgeting and established cost-cost priorities have been established, and as you can see, this has brought fruit because we consistently stick to the path of recovery and revitalisation of finance and the whole country. The main objectives of the budget are to maintain macroeconomic stability and implement the financial consolidation measures. Then, reducing public debt to GDP, raising the profitability of public enterprises, improving the tax system, reducing the grey economy and better tax collection, increasing investment at the state level is 20 billion dinars. We have come to the level to pay faster than anticipated, dynamic payments and to use credits at interest rates as well as much more developed countries in the region. In 2019, it is envisaged that 20m euros should be invested in cultural projects, which I particularly look forward to. Much has been done in a modern, digitised administration, as the state is thus fighting corruption and thus saving 225 million dinars. Special attention is given to the knowledge of innovation and this is crucial for economic growth. The number of places in technical colleges is increasing 20%, because we are thinking about the future and we need professional and educated personnel. I am very proud of this government, of the effort and work and diligence because they have been doing many things that have been waiting for more than 40 years, because the government of Mr. Vukic, and Mrs. Brnabic, as Prime Minister, has also continued, laid the foundations of the state on sound grounds despite the terrible campaign of untruth and constant pressures that our country has been exposed to. Our president said -- I want a united Serbia, because when we are united, we can achieve everything. Often, our prime minister appealed to unity, that in these difficult times we should agree on important matters for the state and that it is a shame to work against it. And we are witnessing the monstrous and false statements of some opposition colleagues, and these are not foreign citizens, but just the citizens of Serbia. The government continued earlier this year, which is the constant growth of GDP over the past three years and has prevented bankruptcy, has arranged public finances, has dramatically increased investment levels and has made the most miles of roads so far. This budget is developmental, but it is both realistic and balanced and focused on improving the quality of life of citizens and investing in capital projects and further growth in economy. This government has shown the world four steps to succeed. Plan on thinking about the goal. Prepare and take good chances. Under three, continue in a positive spirit despite all difficulties. And, four, work hard. Chinese-worthy, smart people have a saying that I would refer to our opposition colleagues, you won't make rice with a story. Now I'm going to give my other colleagues a chance to say something, and with this, I'm going to end up, wishing that next year we could find ourselves in the same place with an even better result, even though with this and for a reason we're proud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50166	Thank you. The word is Mr. Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, in such a large set of laws, regardless of what is so large, dominates, of course, this Budget Law. I wouldn't talk about him, about the budget itself, I don't think that much of my colleagues have said, especially about what my last name Goran was saying, and I think that's what the essence of this law and budget is. I would just say that when you study this draft budget, you see a lot of positive innovations in next year's budget-making approach, which must be absolutely welcomed, and I think that this trend should be maintained and thus make future budgets. The budget as it was five, six years ago, and seven and now they're completely different approaches. As such, however, the PUPS Group will, of course, support it, as well as the other laws of this set. But there's only one thing I'd like to say about the budget. We have had the situation that this government has recognised and found it necessary to pay particular attention to regional development and entrepreneurship in this term and entrusted this sector to the cabinet of the Minister without portfolio, Mr Krkobibic. Come on, he's here now, but it doesn't matter who he is. That's a lot of work. Why am I undermining this? I underline because, in the framework of regional development, many things that have been moderated to the revitalisation of villages and the improvement and development of the rural environment of this country have been accessed last year. I think it's something we have to keep in mind strategically. It can't be done in a year, two days, etc. But I think it is also very important for the overall contribution to the development of the country, not to talk about the development of agriculture and economy in general. To remove many current shortcomings and disadvantages in the development of society, which is, above all, to increase employment to a large extent, to relieve cities of many pressures coming from this rural environment, or from the village, to develop a country in general equally, to make maximum use of all resources in agriculture, etc. So I think, intimately, I even expected, given that a lot of this plan has been done for these two years, which has shown that the government's proper commitment to this sector and its development, I thought what was said in the exposé of the government's election, and I recall that the Ministry Act has not changed, which does not mean, literally, I quote, is said – which does not mean that we are not going to go to any of the new ministries. This may also be when the annual budgets are adopted, etc. I intimately expected that these jobs would grow even with this budget that maybe the government would define that in 2019 a new ministry for regional development and revitalisation of villages, cooperatives and all this was done in these two years was formed. I would propose in the end, given that time is running me over, I would suggest to the government, regardless of what has not entered the budget and is covered by the budget, even reduced to about 25 million, the funds have been reduced, so that the funds can be found. Here's to what. Whether this is through rebalancing or in some other way, the funds that we would prepare for this year and organise both personnel and structurally and in any other way, conditions for by the end of 2018 when we adopt the budget, if not before, is calculated and formed by this new ministry which would be prepared to, in 2020, mean next, do what is expected of it. It means that it's over with both the plan and all of it, to keep it at full capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50168	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has Veroljub Matic. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50169	Thank you, Chairman. As far as the budget is concerned, I've always liked to be specific, and I'm only going to find three things that are very important to me, and that's the end of the accumulation, i.e. the dam and the accumulation of Stubo Rowni, which has a primarily two-purpose role. These are flood prevention, irrigation and water supply with healthy, proper drinking water. Since healthy, proper drinking water is always a problem and should always be working and ready, I think, given the amount of water this accumulation has, I think other municipalities such as LJig, Osecina and Kocelev need to be expanded. As far as I know, Koceljev is about to be someone who will hang on to a healthy drinking water coming from the Stubo Rowni dam, and this year this big investment ends. The other thing I want to say is anti-urban protection. In this Serbia, we are at great risk from the elemental disasters, and primarily from the city and here a colleague before me was already talking about it, but what this government is doing and the competent ministry is automatically defending the city, so that two spaces in this Serbia will be built on automatic defence against the city. It's the western part of Serbia and part of Vojvodina. This will be continuity, so that the whole of Serbia will be covered in a more efficient, automatic defense against the city in some future period. What I want to say is, since my colleagues, since I have addressed these professions in one letter, I would like to say, and that mainly refers to Minister Ruzic, which is GZO. They have decades of problems, since they operate within the state administration and there is a meeting, within the state administration, the most technical persons there are. From engineers, technicians combined with lawyers are doing a very important job and they are such as one joint, one connective tissue, one glue at the level of functioning of the state administration in general, as well as local self-government. They're very professional people, they're closely specialized and they've had certain requirements, and now they have. If it is possible to correct during this session, yes, if their request is deemed justified. The essence of their proposal is to be in the framework of Article 32. Law on civil servants also includes jobs in professional affairs which are represented in the NGO. Jobs that are related to the maintenance of the building blocks, as well as those relating to the management of geospace data require special knowledge, skills, as well as high level of responsibility and reliability. In this regard, the State Prime Minister's Law has also defined one of the titles of a Catastrian official, so that these previous laws have resolved certain issues. These problems in the RGZ last, I say, a decade and I think it's time to solve it in one way that practically and that profession, the specifics of that profession, what this country needs, are practically worth one full attention and a practical verification of an existing state, this is mine, not a request, but one suggestion to see if it's possible now or in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50170	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50171	Thank you for asking, Mr. Matice. So, I wouldn't say, I think we're a little late with the whole story, but it's not really just that reason that you might not consider this amendment, given the Rules of Procedure and how the whole parliamentary life works. What's a fact, it's really about experts doing a very responsible job, but they already have special titles in their law. We had last year, if I'm not mistaken, talks and representatives of the RGZ, but they haven't changed that systematization, they haven't introduced new calls and they haven't even had the basis for paying their salaries by them, according to them, therefore. What I also cannot take for granted the right to claim and to guarantee, was an intensities, which were carried out as an idea it was to consider changing the status only of the RGZ, to turn it into a public agency or some other level of organization and that for that reason perhaps it was not necessary to do that, let's put it out in public terms, to interpret new titles at this point. That's why I'd say the government's position in that regard. We'll see what's possible. We're going to make some kind of political consultation, but I think it's the basis and basis of this request. Indeed, there is not enough to accept this amendment in full capacity, with all the complexity of accepting amendments in this situation. If I'm not mistaken, we've been going over the discussion in detail since Monday, but, of course, I'm going to do a consultation and I'm going to see what's possible, but I think the government's intensity is that their status as RGZ certainly changes, and it certainly opens up the possibility that everything they've already defined by their own law will practically be incorporated, not just this special law, but, of course, into the whole system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50172	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50173	Thank you. Dear Ministers, chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a united discussion of several drafts of system laws, then agreements and decisions and the JS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support all proposals of the law from this united debate, because their adoption should contribute to increasing the standard of living of our citizens, then to increasing the economic growth and more intensive economic progress of our country. My presentation at the very beginning will focus on the draft budget law for 2019, and depending on the time I have, I will focus on other laws in this united debate. As I said at the very beginning, my presentation will be focused on the draft budget law for 2019. A year. Minister, in your presentation, you pointed out that you will spend as much as you have money on this budget, so as much as you earn. It's domestic behavior. We from the JS will support it, because it supports our President Dragan Markovic Palm and us. It should also be said that political stability is one of the basic factors for the further economic growth of each country, not just ours, but each. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and Ivica Dacic are constantly working to improve, I say, political stability, but here I must point out that JS President Dragan Markovic Palma, whatever country visits, also opens the door of co-operation with the country. The last visit by JS President Drgan Markovic to Egypt has contributed to Egypt's support for our country's policy. When it comes to the law itself, you pointed out that this budget is based on three pillars. So, the first pillar - wages and pensions, the second pillar - capital investments and the third pillar - set of measures for growth in our country. Minister, if I'm not mistaken, we had about 920 amendments on the budget last year. We have over 160 amendments this year. This says that there are no much better proposals than those you have proposed for this budget, but it goes in favor of one fact, that when you said that these pillars stand on healthy feet and that Serbia will move even more largely forward in the next period, I would also like to point out here that GDP from 70% fell to 55%, and that it is expected to be something below 50% in the beginning of next year. On the other hand, the conduct of responsible fiscal policy has led to an increase in wages and pensions. Then, a minimum price increase works. The allocations for capital investments are by this budget for 2019 higher by 30% than in 2018. What does that mean? Increasing these projects and further building our infrastructure. You've been talking in these two days about almost all the projects that are expecting us in the following year. I come from Kragujevac, so let me just say what's most important to us from Kragujevac. So, the end of Batocina highway – Kragujevac, then the Data Centre in Kragujevac, KBC, regional prison, palace of justice. Now, these are just some of the projects we're going to implement next year as far as this budget is concerned. It is also very important that this law provides for a reduction in the burden on earnings. No more entering this law just to say that the 2019 budget is a step forward. The JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support it. Moving on to the next law, there is no Minister Sarcevic here, but there are his associates, as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, I would like to say briefly about the two laws that form part of this united debate, which relate to this area. First law is the Science Fund Act. It's a brand-new law that this system law on scientific and research activity regulates, practically. Practically, the formation of this fund, whose core activity will be to finance scientific and research projects, the Resort Ministry, that is, their competence in this will be redefined. What is most important to me, the entire government, your resolute ministry, and ultimately we all send a clear message to young researchers that they belong in the scientific community, that they should simply stay in our country, that they should create families here and, on the other hand, make a full contribution here to their results and projects. The aim of the establishment of this fund is based on the principles of European scientific and research practices, but not only of Europe, but also of other world countries, with a special focus on establishing a functional scientific and research system integrated into an international scientific and research space, but on the other hand, the basis is not only for us, but also for the whole world. It is very important here that this fund, apart from the Ministry of origin, carries resources and other ministries, as well as other companies and are practically interested in the development of science. That's why it's important that this fund grows. At this point, it is funded from the budget that we have foreseen, but at some point this fund will become a completely independent institution and, what is important to us, it will finance those best projects that come into our country and that we will finance. In short, since I don't have much time, when it comes to the patent bill, let me just say, it's very important for Chapter 7. Here, I will read - to introduce certain directives and clarity in procedures, to better protect people who apply, to sew up their patents, and to gain better insight through the judiciary, better visibility, to keep the digital system light and to remove excess registers. The objective of this law, in practice, is to say that all these procedures that I have said are made easier and that people who do scientific and research work are practically calm when it comes to protecting their copyrights. At the very end, regarding all these laws in this united debate to say that the JS Parliamentary Group will support them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50174	Thank you, colleague Kosanic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50175	As soon as you look at the budget, it's clear that each budget looks like one another, and it's not 17-18 years old, it's not even with this budget. Which, by economy and economy, we boast, when, for example, a budget full of citizens with taxes and excise duties, you see that VAT from imports is 466,400,000, and VAT in the country is 69,800,000. So much for the strength of our economy. Clearly, we have an economy that serves as a flow water heater. Something's coming in as a component, it's coming together here, with these foreign famous investors coming out. That money, fictitiously in the BilNs, goes through the country, doesn't hold back, except for those poor salaries that these workers receive and get out, but you're borrowing on that basis, so you're planning 630 billion dinars of borrowing, and for the payment of the principal 559 billion, and 103 billion and something to pay off interest. And that's what I'd like to do, Mr. Mali, to give you a proposal that you could celebrate and simply provide billions in the state budget. I'll illustrate through points 23 and 24. I'm glad Mr. Bajatovic from "Srbijagas" is here. So here we have two proposals for borrowing "Serbiagas", because "Srbigas", that's also practice, in business banks taking loans and it's being paid off. And it's nothing controversial. What's the matter? As you know, the bank has the right to the capital and interest. The Supreme Cassation Court and the judicial verdicts, therefore, told Serbian courts that banks have no right to the cost of processing credits. With all the loans we're taking, there's a cost of processing the credit. Earlier in the contracts "Srbigas" concluded, the cost was 1%. We now only see that it is stated that there is a cost and compensation for taking credit, we do not see whether the cost of processing is 1%. With Serbia's taking 90m euros now, 1% of it is 900,000 euros. Now multiply all loans that have been taken by public enterprises or the Republic of Serbia since 2002, up to now, so that cost which is illegal and which falls before Serbia's courts, with interest rates of tens of millions of euros for that item alone. What's the Republican Public Attorney's Office waiting for? Here, you as finance minister could fill the budget, initiate the Republic Public Attorney's Office to initiate such proceedings, but that's not all. When you see that "Srbigas" takes loans in dinars at business banks, it means our "Sosite", "Commercial Bank", OTP Bank, etc. means loans in dinars with indexed clauses in euro. This has been a practice before, not only for "Serbiagas", but for all "Serbiagas" contracts, but also for other businesses, and that may not be problematic now when the euro course is stable. But remember, 2006, 2007, 2008, when after four years in 2012, the euro jumped from some 65 to 120 dinars, as much as it was increased in the payments dinars. It's only billions, and it's illegal. If you took a loan in euros, it's logical, you return it to the euro, but if you took it in dinars, you return it to dinars. What index clause in the euro? Well, that's totally amazing. Third thing, there's a eurybor in all the contracts. So the Eurobor plus the interest rate, as well as this point 24 is mentioned. So, in 2016, we said that more than once in the National Assembly, we taught Alexander Vukic, while he was Prime Minister, that material. The European Commission and the court in London with 12.5 billion fined certain business banks for installing the euro. We're back in some previous period, when you weren't even a minister, even this government wasn't the current government. There was a Eurobor all over the place. Since it has been proven in Europe that banks have made illegal cartels that they have staged the eurobor and since they have been punished there, we can initiate court proceedings and ask that we also charge the difference here that they artificially raised the interest rate. Why don't we want our money? Why don't we want to fill the budget? You would have filled the budget for billions, Mr. Mali, and that's a very good suggestion. I don't know why you wouldn't accept it. I'd like to hear the answer from you. Perhaps Mr. Bajatovic should also say why there is a cost of processing credits and why is the index clause for the dinar loan that we take from the home bank? One more way to fill the budget, because due to limited time, I can't speak anymore, nor criticise this proposal with the right, and that is, fees, or penalties that we pay for unfounded and illegal detentions and for the costs of defenses. Billions stand out every year. Our courts end every year are in blockades. There's never been a regress case against any judge or prosecutor for that sort of thing. If the Ministry of Justice doesn't want you to worry about the Republic of Serbia's budget, you should initiate because there's a legal possibility, so when they make 5,000 arrests a year so easily, they have to pay for unfounded detention, and then let the judge pay out of his pocket. Also, when they lightly wish to conduct the mounted proceedings, they file criminal charges, and they lose later, let those prosecutors pay out of their own pocket. You're looking for a regress, you have this legal option, fill the budget. I think I've been very constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50176	Yes, it is. Thank you, Mr. Nogo. The word is Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50177	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is very important that when you read the budget and you know how to read it. So one of the lies we've heard is about so-called. domestic VAT. Otherwise, we all know we have domestic VAT, we also have import VAT. And also, given the fact that the Republic of Serbia's budget is being adopted every year, you should also know that the budget shows only so-called. the net domestic VAT, not gross domestic VAT, which is reduced to VAT refund. When you add 69.8 billion of the net domestic VAT and vomit of 269 billion, you get a figure of 339 billion dinars. So it's a gross domestic VAT, which is, once again, a net domestic VAT and vomiting. It is indisputable that VAT from imports was projected at 466 billion, therefore, more than so. Home VAT. But it is also not a secret nor a fact that Serbia has always been an import-oriented country and is dependent on imports, but it is also a fact that the trunk is shrinking from year to year. What makes me say that and on what basis do I support that fact? If you look at the structure of imports, and this is very, very important information, since I am in part of the debate about increasingly importing etc., the structure of our imports and I look at the first nine months of this year, so the average increase in imports is 12.8%, and 18.8% is imports of funds to work. So, due to increased investment, due to increased investment, due to the growing number of factories that are being opened in Serbia, therefore, equipment is being imported, labour funds are being imported, and that is exactly what we wanted. Reproduction of 11.6%, and these are, well-respected MPs, raw materials, reproductions, all of what is used for production, which also says that the structure of imports is changing from year to year, it was different both in 2017 and 2016 and in the years behind us. So let's go to import more equipment, more new technology, more machines and more repromation. Of course, for those who monitor macroeconomic developments, they need to know that it's in the framework of repromation and oil imports. Meanwhile, oil prices have increased, so this has led to an increase in this percentage. But it is indisputable that 11.6% of the growth in the repromaries is precisely a reflection of the increased investment activity and production activity in our country, while, for example, consumption, i.e. consumption, i.e. consumption, is only 9.6, so much less than 12.8, which is the growth of imports in general for the first nine months of this year. So these are two very important things, two very important indicators that support how our economy's structure changes and how it slowly steps on the scene so-called. Re-industrialization, what many of us talked about before us, who were engaged in the closure of factories and the release of people. The very fact that you have 370,000 new employees in the last four years and dozens of new factories in all of Serbia, which are currently in production, which are the most export-oriented, speaks of this shift that we have made and in the direction we are going, which is that we are reducing dependence on imports, we are building an export-oriented economy, we are building an economy, we are building industry, we are building an industry, everything that we used to be destroyed and fired by workers. And that's the economic policy we're going to be dealing with in the future. After all, it is these incentives that we are talking about, which are contained in the 2019 budget, that are in favour of doing so. In the end, about the price of capital, I already talked about it a few days ago, but here, let me show it again. It is the state, with its responsible fiscal policy, with its budget, which is fully balanced, that has affected its economic indicators to reduce interest rates several times over the past few years. The euro-denominated bonds, which were issued in 2011, had an interest rate of 5% in the euro. Today, the same bond has an interest rate of 1.25%, so four times less. In 2012, the weighted average interest rate on dinar bonds was 14.74%, almost 15%. Today, the same five-year bonds are at 4.12%, so again three and something almost four times smaller. It is precisely in favour of how much Serbia's economy has changed, how much macroeconomic situation has changed, how much investor confidence in our country has changed for the better, and this is our contribution to public enterprises when they take credits and to all those who deal with the economy, and they also take loans from private or state banks operating in the Republic of Serbia, because that is how we have enabled these businesses to be more competitive, to be more attractive, to produce more competitive products, to export more, to work more, ultimately, and to make more money through taxes and contributions into the budget. On the investment of one of the public enterprises, I'm talking about "Srbigas", I think you have a chance to see how much that company has changed. I, I can't find that table, but I'll tell you in the next few minutes, when I've been looking at the profitability or the results of the business of public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, in the last few years, we've had, if I'm not mistaken, losses that have been measured by billions of dinars, and I'm going to give you the exact information as soon as I get it, the losses of the cumulative entire public sector that measured billions of dinars in 2012, 2013. You now have a cumulative profit of the company, except for a couple who are still doing negative business, most of them are doing positive business, and this shows how domestically we treat every citizen of Serbia and how hard we are working through the work of public enterprises, and it has not always been so to increase their efficiency and thus contribute to the improvement of Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50178	Thank you very much. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50179	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, thank you for these exhaustive notes and clarifications. Our people say, "It is a deaf thing to sing." Remember, while you are explaining to us the structure of imports and the participation of resources to work and repromation for newly opened factories in the Republic of Serbia, their intention is to close, tear down and drive investors away. Well, just so you know how pointless it is sometimes to explain these things to someone. Let's go back to the budget. In fact, today is one of the most important laws that can be found during the year in this respected House and there is no big difference in planning important, or most important decisions in a household. Each household plans its incomes and the basis of these revenues and thinks about the costs it can afford and what the consequences of these expenditures are. Of course, the planning of household income and expenditure always depends on who the host is and how he behaves. When a host is responsible and thinks about his family, then all family members and everyone in his environment benefit, and when the host is a wasteful man, then all those who don't really think well of that family benefit. The same principle can be applied when it comes to the Republic of Serbia's budget. This budget is, in itself, the result of years of work, which has been done since 2014 by the then Prime Minister, today's President of the Republic and all other governments that followed today's end in 2014. They are the result of the patience of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those of the oldest. Once upon a time, the great bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic said that patience in itself is not that harmless form which is something that is contrary to intolerance, but is probably the closest thing to wisdom in itself. They had the citizens of the Republic of Serbia so much wisdom to support this government's work and create a good basis for the budget, i.e. for the proposal that's ahead of us today. The basics are, in addition to the political stability that is the condition of all conditions, serious economic growth of 4.5% compared to that wasteful decline from minus 3% to 2012. The base is also an inflation rate of 2.2%. The base is also the unemployment rate which is slightly more than 11% compared to that of 25% and more in 2012. All of this in itself represents one sound basis for all the revenue of the budget, which is, here, at 1,246 billion. Like any responsible host, then you plan on what the possible expenses are, and these expenditures we've seen this year allow for an increase in profits, i.e. An automatic increase in the standard of living of every citizen, an increase of 7% to 13% in the public sector, an increase in pensions of 8-13%, with unlimited giving of all those social interventions. What's second, you're able to finance serious infrastructure projects. We from the north of Subotica, I am in charge of thanking you on behalf of all of us in the north, one of these projects is the Ipislon Leg around Subotica. After decades, it seems to me that we are approaching the conclusion of this project and we are finally going to end this famous Ipsilon arm. However, I am in charge today of many people from Republika Srpska and have been tasked with conveying my gratitude to the government of the Republic of Serbia for those projects that are making the Drina River more and more a river that connects our two peoples, not a separation. This is particularly important to them in the day you have that shameful decision of the BiH judiciary, I would say, so-called The BiH judiciary that freed Naser Oric for everything he did to the Serbian people in the 1990s. Our answer is good today. Projects that bring our two people together. Almost all bridges on the Drina River, between Serbia and Serbia, will be restored and that old Bratunac-Ljubovija bridge and that Skelani-Bajin Basta and King Alexander's Bridge in Zvornik and the bridge in Karakaja and the bridge in Šepko, and we see the first means for the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. This, in addition to making it possible, to say, to make life easier for citizens on both sides of the Drina River, is one big political message and this is the Serbian shirt that the president of Serbia is talking about, which we will all wear together, no matter what coat it is, i.e. No matter what administrative continent we live in today. This is a way to confront all the injustices we have suffered together in the last decades. This is our answer to the verdict, to the disgraceful verdict of Naser Oric. There are a lot of reasons why we can support this budget. I just counted some. I think that they are enough in themselves to even support this budget by the opposition, and we will certainly do so from the SNS, because this is a good plan of income and expenditure that will contribute to the better life of our great family, which is called Serbia, but also those who do not currently live in this family, who live near us, who live in the environment and ultimately around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50180	He's got a word for Mom Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50181	Dear Presidents, respected Ministers Mali and Ruzic with associates, distinguished MPs, respected MPs' group president and deputy MP, Petrovic and Kovacevic, made clear and precise the positions of the PUPS and its parliamentary groups regarding the draft budget and a proposal for other laws on the agenda of today's session. I have three basic features of the draft budget and something to say about the PIO. The first is that the citizen, the man, the worker, the user of pensions, is his material and social position. I have to point out that it's the first time in years that it's put as priority number one, which is to say hello. I personally think it's very positive and well after the 2014 reform, when we talked differently, we had different priorities. The second is the development of investments that depend on how and how we achieve this first priority, and therefore it is very important that the budget provides for such development and such investment. And the third start, it's not even small, but it's very significant – discharging the economy. And we must also welcome this in the coming years to insist on a more favourable environment for the development of the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we have highlighted our support for this concept of budget for 2019. When it comes to pensioners, then I must say and repeat, a while ago I said that – the best reforms we have achieved in the fiscal consolidation of our country. In my opinion, pension-involved insurance reforms are elsewhere. By improving the Pension-Employment Fund, contributions to pension-inhabited insurance, the budget's contribution to pensions has been reduced, not to repeat much earlier years, to below 30%, the participation of pensions in GDP also to 11%, which was our goal. Because of that, I personally think it's very good that in this way not only the pensioners return, but the pension-inhabited system as a whole. I expect it will especially highlight the need to apply the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act that we recently adopted. This is our largest number of users, about a million and 300,000 already felt at the expense of October and November pensions. I expect it to be in the next year at least twice. When it comes to harmonising pensions, then I expect that, in line with the statements made by Mr. Minister in the coming year, we will find a solution to this problem, as well as how to find a formula that will benefit the user of pensions, but also in line with the country's capabilities. I am grateful to Mr. Minister for accepting the proposal to meet with representatives of pensioners in the next period, to find one solution and I am convinced that we will jointly find this formula to ensure pension coordination for all pensioners of 1.715.284.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50183	For these reasons, I support what is proposed in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50184	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50185	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, I will first and foremost talk about the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 and try to sum up what is most important in this proposal, why I think it is good and why I will vote for the adoption of this proposal and other draft laws. Three basic features, as we've already heard, are budgets for next year. The first feature is that next year's budget will be developmental, affecting the rise of citizens' living standards. The second feature is that it has allocated significantly more money for capital investments than in previous years. The third feature is that a set of laws that are on the agenda, in addition to the draft budget law, also provides for a set of measures to support the development of the economy, which will allow it to be more competitive and attractive. The set of measures is secured by an amendment of as much as 27 laws from the Ministry of Finance's portfolio just ahead of us. So let me explain why I believe that the budget will really be developmental and why it will really affect the rise in the standard of living of citizens. First, the 2019 budget envisions an increase in all pensions on average compared to 2014 between 8% and 13%. To that end, 35 billion dinars were allocated for the following year more than in 2018. I want to point out here that, as I understand it, it will already start with a one-time payment to all pensioners of 3,000 dinars, for which the government has singled out 5.24 billion dinars. Otherwise, they were never more retired in Serbia than they are today and will be in 2019, envisioned by this budget. If we continue with this economic growth, at a rate of 3.5 to 4%, next year there will be room for pension increases. Secondly, the budget was created to support public sector salary growth ranging from seven to 12%, starting on 1 January 2019. Salary growth for the general administration 7%, for customs and taxpayers 8.5%, for the police 9% and the army 9%, employees in education also 9%, for doctors 10%, for nurses, technicians etc. 12%. It is very important that this increase in wages and pensions is in line with the achieved fiscal consolidation measures, the IMF agreed, and it is not like before, while the yellows were in power, without cover, i.e. security of borrowing from credit. Third thing. From the very beginning of next year, the minimum labour price will be increased to more than 27,000 dinars, so that all employees in Serbia will see the effect of the reforms implemented. So, as the above shows, the increase in living standards is indeed one of the three basic features of the new budget for 2019. The increase in pensions and wages will increase personal consumption, which will activate new production and speed up economic growth. Another feature of the budget is the higher amount for capital investments, much higher than in previous years. He also insisted on the Fiscal Council and the IMF. Nearly 220 billion dinars for capital investments have been provided, which are record size. Here, I will list: the continuation of the tour around Belgrade, the end of the road Surcin-Obrenovac, the construction of the highway Obrenovac-LJig, the Preljina-Požega road, the Moravski corridor, the E-75 Kelebija-Subotica highway, the state road Novi Pazar-Tutin, the Project of Hungarian-Serbian Railways, railway infrastructure and the purchase of trains, the scientific and technological park in Novi Sad, digital classrooms, the Data Centre in Kragujevac, the development of infrastructure of health institutions, and above all, health institutions such as KBC Serbia in Belgrade, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and the Clinical Centre of Kragujevac. There is also a larger budget for the Public Investment Office, allowing for the construction of hundreds of new schools and kindergartens, as well as new hospitals in Serbia. There are also various subsidies, and for farmers they are larger by several billion dinars. The third feature, as I said, is that in the entire set of laws, which is on the agenda today, in addition to the draft budget law, a set of measures is also envisaged in the light of a number of incentives to support the development of the economy, which will allow it to be more competitive and attractive. Only, for example, reducing the burden on earnings and eliminating the contribution to employment on the burden of employers of 0.75%, which takes effect on 1 January 2019, is supported by the development of the economy, and this is a historic decision that businesses have been waiting for for for decades, etc. All of this is possible because of the government's economic results, but also the previous one led as prime minister by the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. The 2019 budget was created as a continuation of the reform process that was launched in 2014 when the Prime Minister was Aleksandar Vucic. I'll list some of those results. For the first nine months, the GDP growth rate in Serbia is 4.5%, making us among the five best economies in Europe. When was that before? Never. For the third year in a row we have a surplus in our budget, and by the end of the year that surplus will be 0.6% of GDP, i.e. About 28 billion dinars, which means we've saved and made more money than we've spent on the entire 28 billion dinars. I ask again – when was it before? Never. It was expendable and merciless, and who would return it to the yellow did not even take care of it. Next, unemployment was reduced from 25.9% in 2013 to the current 11.9%, which is still high, but the trend is clear. When was that before? Never. In their time without a job, there were 400,000 workers left. Serbia draws more than 50% of foreign direct investors in the region in a third year in a row. I ask again – when was that before? Never. They just shut down and tear down the factories. Public debt relative to GDP also falls from the years before, when it was almost 80% of GDP, today we are already at 56% of GDP, and public debt is expected to be at 50% to 51% of GDP by the end of the year. I ask again – when was that before? Never, never came back, just increased. The surplus also rejected part of the public debt, an old 70m-euro debt was paid to the Russian Federation, and here, in some days, on December 3rd, a billion-dollar and $30m debt on the basis of issued bonds, which we will pay back in December and thus further reduce public debt. At the end of my presentation, I would like to point out something else that is completely new and very important, which is that this draft budget law provides for money to build apartments for security forces in 2019. A total of 3.7% of billions of dinars were planned from the budget to this end. Otherwise, about an investment worth about 200,000 euros, I would say as a capital investment, which will be realised over the next three years, of which 9.5m euros refers to the infrastructure the state finances through local self-government, 65m euros go from the budget, and the rest through a "Postal Savings" loan through project financing. It is about building just over 8,000 apartments in seven cities, which will address the decades-long unresolved housing issue of security forces on President Aleksandar Vukic's initiative. This is what I'd end up with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50186	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50187	Thank you. Three thousand dinars, which are receiving pensioners today, are not an increase in pensions but social aid, and I don't consider myself to be the person to receive social assistance, so tonight, right after the meeting in the main post office, I'm going to pay at the expense of the Preljin church municipality, to donate it to a socially endangered family, because every year, I don't normally donate that church fund to the Preljin municipality. The tragedy is that these funds are not burdened by the Ministry of Labour, Social, Combating Issues, but are burdening the PIO Fund, and this sum serves as a locust to maintain the state's participation level above 11% and thus enables the government to intervene in pension legislation. Secondly, when it comes to the budget, therefore, old practice continues, while the nominal budget for the Ministry of Agriculture has been increased and the budget for subsidies to 51,766,777 million, i.e. the budget for subsidies and agriculture, to 41,5 billion. Realistically, however, given the fact that the commitments carried over are higher than otherwise the regular commitments transferred from the fourth quarter due to the inability to pay off subsidies for milk, etc., about five and a few billion of these budgets are practically at the level of the budget last year. If, in turn, the notion of incentives and subsidies is originally applied, according to the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouraging Act, the minimum amount is 5%, but not for the ministry's budget, regardless of the ministry's costs, no doubt require budgetary resources, but for subsidies. The other day I spoke to a colleague who was an expert... And she told me she didn't know her as... that there is a country where employees in the ministry pay and the material costs that are necessary, and they represent funds that can be subject to subsidies. I'm asking the Minister of Finance to answer me why there's no regression or restitution of agricultural fuel excises, and it's got to be for jet fuel and maybe for some freighters or I don't know what? Secondly, can one common sense illogicality be lifted, which is that only in Serbia is paid TV subscription for all stables that have an electric counter and for all the counters, which are used to irrigate orchards, vegetables, etc.? I think it's extremely healthyly unsustainable. Furthermore, we have at least subsidies for plant production, only 4,000 dinars or 33.9 euros per hectare, which is 10 times less than in EU countries, and we have a fully liberalised export-import market with EU countries. It's particularly worrying that that agriculture sector where we have the greatest chance, which is subsidies for organic, vegetable production...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50188	Time. Thank you. Your group of MPs wasted their time on the discussion. The word is Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50189	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, respected MPs, are now on the agenda of the most important law for the Republic of Serbia. Proposal for a bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, a draft law on the budgetary system, as well as a set of other non-essential laws. As you can see, the draft budget law is largely comprehensive and comprehensive, and not as some have to say that the material is thick. Only pigs are fat, and books are extensive. We bring the budget of the Republic of Serbia in time and in time, and not as the governments of the yellow DOS made the budget after midnight at 00 hours and five minutes, as they would say, of the budget for yesterday. That's how they took our future, and now they're complaining there's no future. He's got a future with SNS. To return to the budget, I will not speak in general, but in the context of the debate on the 2019 budget, they have been kept just to talk about the advantages of the town of Nis. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of annex number 1 of the financial agreement between the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line, from 31 January 2018, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The financial contract, as we know, was signed in Belgrade on 31 January 2018 and confirmed on 19 April 2018 in this high house by passing an appropriate law. On 24 April 2018, the European Investment Bank approved a 134m-euro loan to finance the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway reconstruction project. As I spoke earlier in this project, which is significant for the city of Nis and the Republic of Serbia, the total cost is 268.28m euros, of which 134m euros are provided by the European Investment Bank loan, 61.24m euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and 73.04m euros in donation of the investment framework for the Western Balkans. Without further ado, I can only say the following. The agreement on this project has been defined in a way to implement public procurement in accordance with the rules of the European Investment Bank procurement guide, while the Law on Public Procurement of the Republic of Serbia applies to the resolution in the second instance under the complaint of stakeholders. Secondly, I will talk about a science and technology park in Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade. The science and technology park in Belgrade is over, Novi Sad ends, and a 14,000 square-square stone is set in Nis, and a total of all three projects will cost about 100m euros. The science and technology park makes a unique continent with an innovation centre at the university and a start-up centre at the Faculty of Electronics in Nis. This implements the idea to transform innovative knowledge into innovative products, thus fulfilling the promise made by the government and President Aleksandar Vukic, then prime minister, during a seven-day stay in Nis, two years ago. The budget, as far as health care is concerned, I will speak through the amendments I have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50190	The word is Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50191	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the proposed budget is good, well balanced and that it is on the one hand a developmental one, because it foresees large allocations for capital investments aimed at GDP growth. On the other hand, it is also social because it takes care of social categories, socially sensitive groups, predicts an increase in wages and pensions. On the third hand, significant allocations are also provided for healthcare facilities, for the modernisation of schools, for improvements in culture, for social protection, as I said specifically for subsidies in agriculture. What is not good is that the budget provides for a certain reduction in the funds for fighting and disability protection. We know well that more than 400,000 citizens who participated in the armed conflicts of the 1990s live in Serbia. We have a significant number of early military invalids, civilian disabled wars and that the adoption of a new law on rights of fighters and martial law is envisioned. We expect that by the end of this year, according to an agreement in the cabinet of President Vukic and President Vukic, the said law on the rights of fighters and martial law will be adopted and the means for its implementation. What matters to us about this future law is that they are finally corrected by historical injustice against over 50,000 Krajina fighters who have not been recognised so far, i.e. they are granted the right to a military internship by 27 April 1992 until the day of the creation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. until 19 May until the date of the withdrawal of JNA from today's Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. What we expect in the new law on the rights of fighters and martial law is a key provision for all provinces' fighters to be recognised as a dual-term wartime wartime wartime, as has been recognised by the country's officers, officers and civil figures who were in the JNA. I would especially like to point out the issue of the position of Serbs in the region. We also have a certain reduction in funds for the diaspora administration and Serbs in the region. I think we all agree that the almost two million Serbs in the region should be one of the issues of national and national importance. The position of Serbs in the region is difficult in most countries, we can say that this position is only good and satisfying in Hungary and Romania, where official Budapest and official Bucharest are raising significant funds and helping to nurture and preserve Serbian national and cultural identity. However, in other countries this position, as I said, is very difficult. It is the most difficult and tragic in Croatia and the Federation of BiH, from over a million Serbs. Serbs in Croatia, Serbs in the Federation of BiH, what remains, are citizens of not other, but citizens of the fifth order. Their property and status rights are violated daily. They have problems, too, regarding the preservation of their national and cultural identity. A particularly difficult position is the position of Serbs in Montenegro. The current government in Montenegro is conducting a policy of discrimination against almost a third of its population. Serbs in Montenegro have problems with public sector employment, problems related to the use of Serbian language and Cyrillic. Here, yesterday and today we have two shameful, two scandalous decisions. Last night, the Montenegrin Parliament made a shameful decision repealing the statements of the 1918 Podgorica Assembly, the unification of Serbia-Montenegro. Unfortunately, in Montenegro, for many years now, a complete falsification of history aimed at further further deepening the division between the Serb and Montenegrin peoples is at work. With this scandalous decision by the Montenegrin Parliament since last night, Serbia has been officially declared an occupyer, who to God has made an annexion of Montenegro in 1918, and the Serb army that freed Montenegro and which played a key role in preventing the annexation of Boke Kotorska by Italians, whose territory was given to the London Treaty of 1915, is also declared an occupation army. That is what is very bad and that is what cannot contribute to the development of good judicial relations between Serbia and Montenegro. Also today, we have a shameful decision by the authorities in Montenegro to arrest one of the leaders of the opposition Democratic Front, Nebojsa Medojevic, and to issue a warrant for the arrest of the other Democratic Front leader, Milan Knezevic. These decisions are absolutely harmful, cause further rises in tensions in Montenegro, and this is how the government in Montenegro sends a bad message. On the one hand, it wants to be an EU member, and on the other hand it violates the foundations of European values, respect for the opposition, tolerance, respect for the civil sector, dialogue, etc. The situation of Serbs in Macedonia is also very bad, has many problems related to the free use of Cyrillic, a Serbian language for information in Serbian. In Albania, too, few Serbs left, have big problems preserving their national and religious identity. Serbs in Slovenia are the largest ethnic group, after the majority Slovenian people, but they still do not have the status of a national minority. So, generally speaking, the position of Serbs in the region, I repeat, is very difficult and complex. What's best at all is that at last another Serbian state, our Republika Srpska, which develops the best economic, political, cultural, sports and all other relations with Serbia, was created by Drina. In accordance with the Dayton Agreement and in accordance with the Agreement on special parallel relations between the two countries. Finally, Drina became a river of mergers, not separations. I expect in the next period that Serbia, as it has worked so far with President Vukic, will help the survival of Serbs in the region, help preserve their cultural and national identity, that all Serbs in the region, I repeat, close to two million people, really know that Serbia, as their mother, is standing behind them every day and taking care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50192	Thank you, colleague Linta. The word is Krsto Janjušević. He's not there. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50193	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr Marinkovic, Honored Professor Dr Martinovic, I also address you directly because you are today the only one of the presidents of the parliamentary groups in this high house. This proves how much our political opponents hold to the citizens of Serbia and to this high house, and they knew the whole afternoon of untruths to tell about you and Mr. Vlad Orlic. Respected Serbian citizens, they lied to you when they talked about them. Professor Martinovic and Professor Orlic have their jobs and work on them and have one third of the working relationship under the Law on Higher Education to go like all of us other university professors. They're modest and they won't say it. Now, I'm telling you that. Get the gentlemen out of the former regime, tell me if this is true or not. Now let's talk about the budget, about their lies. Dear State Secretarys and Honored Ministers and Ladies and Gentlemen of the Ministry, the budget is well-conceived, it is both developmental and socially responsible and based on three pillars, for the first time last year and now in this year – first on production, i.e. on economic growth, on investment and for the first time on total consumption. I'll talk about the budget in an unusual way. You'll see, very briefly, but unusual. Those who criticise you today, Mr. Secretaries and gentlemen of the ministry, from the party of the former regime, left the SNS and former Prime Minister, present-day incumbent President Aleksandr Vukic, in 2014 destroyed Serbia and humiliated. I ask them to stand up and say, is it true what I'm saying? First, which was economically, industrially and infrastructureally devastated. Is it true, gentlemen of the former regime? Stand up here in front of Serbian citizens and tell them whether or not you are. Secondly, Serbia without the safety and security of its citizens. Is it true, gentlemen of the former regime, you're looking at the offices now this transmission? Thirdly, Serbia, which was humiliated, fourthly, was without a plan and programme. Is it true, gentlemen of the former regime, or isn't it? Serbia without hope and faith of its citizens in the future. Is it true, gentlemen of the former regime, or isn't it? Come to this house and tell me if this is true or not. Furthermore, Serbia with too much responsibility, Serbia's destroyed state-owned total institutions, Serbia without international reputation, a people in Serbia who has been totally Satanised and Serbia with a brutal robbery privatisation that has entered during your 128 billion regime, with 51 billion out of it. Gentlemen of the former regime, where's the money? Place your accounts here in front of the citizens. You didn't build any factories, you didn't build one mile, you didn't build a factory. And then in 2014, he came for Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who set up exposés, which I often quote here, and you joked about the rules. I ask you today after three years, is this true or not? Which was the most transparent, the most concrete, the most precise, the greatest and best of all 72 previous, starting from 1805 to today, and I'm going to quote in the exposé this sentence. On the 9th side of the exhibition since 2014, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic said, I quote: "The fiscal consolidation measures of the budget deficit will drop to a sustainable 3-4% of GDP by the end of 2017, leading to a 75% halt of public debt from the gross social product". Gentlemen of the former regime, I will quote everything and one of you who made a joke out of this and said it's impossible, that it's fairy tales, that it's stories for little children. I ask you, stand up here today, gentlemen of the former regime, if you have at least a little political correctness, parliamentary, academic, civil integrity, which you often call upon, and at least a little truth and little morality – are these parameters achieved or not, not 100%, but some in 120%? That's why I compared it, and you made a joke out of it. And where are you today? You hid in a mouse hole. You created some kind of alliance called for another Serbian robbery. You robbed the first one when you were in DOS. In this alliance, miraculously, there is also a kind of Sasa Jankovic, called "Sale Pranja". You know why? Well, Gojkovic was killed in his apartment, so it was proven, which on August 3, 2017, said whether or not he was exactly gentlemen, I quote: "Kosovo and Metohija should be admitted to Interpol and thus recognise Kosovo's independence and Metohija." Diving tears over Pristina's debacle at Interpol's reception. So many sorrows were not even shown by representatives of the nation's sponsors of Cypriot independence. For him, academician Dusan Todorovic, who was a member of the presidency, quoted him as saying, "In my long career in the country and abroad, I did not make as much mistakes in assessing moral and working qualities as I did with Sasa Jankovic." Do you know who else is there? No one but Vuk Jeremic, called “Wolf of the Seed”. This is the Vuk Jeremic, who said in a conversation with US congressman Teodor Dora, quote: "Kosovo needs to recognise independence and become an independent state." It's one of the leaders of an international bandit group that is being tried in the United States today, he goes as a witness. Do you know who else is in that group? No one but Dragan Gilas, called the "Giki Mafia". It is a man who increased income from 2008 to 2012, miraculously, to 300m euros while he was mayor in politics. Now, that's the alliance. That's where the others are gathered. You know, respected citizens, who else? Now you'll hear. Janko Vesenovic, called "Janko Stanocrat", because he stole an apartment in Obrovac Milica Bajji, a refugee who is still today, and he was not a refugee. You know who else is? The one who escaped earlier, Dusan Petrovic, called "a cow-killer", who is as a minister of agriculture, said he should come, has ordered the slaughter of 250,000 cows, a total fund of 500. He's talking about agriculture today. His representative muds our country the other day, you saw where. Shame on him, both. Let them come here and say it. No wonder, because his president ratted out during the bombing, read the book of one of our authors what Councillor Josko Fischer said, he led them to German cities, how to bomb, kill Milica Rakic and our children. What do we expect? We expect something from them? In the end, I'm going to leave something for my colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State, about the Science Fund, because you're in a mess, an unprecedented mess. You know, and scientists know what chaos is. Thank you for favouring the science sector, directly you, Vladimir Popovic and Minister Sarcevic. Tell the gentlemen of the former regime if it's true. Njih's Minister Djelic stole 11m euros in the ministry. Let them say whether or not, I'll give them the data here directly. Now, let me say more, is it true or not that the Republic of Serbia became stable in economic 2017 at the end? Is it true, rise, gentlemen of the former regime? And you made fun of the exposé, ran off into the mouse holes, you're nowhere to be found. Now, in the end, allow all Serbian citizens to understand what is said in Serbian? (The local MPs Balsa Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic enter the hall. Here they come, here they are, respected citizens, now coming to the morning coffee shop. Here they come. They're coming to the morning coffee shop. Respected Serbian citizens, it is said, in Serbian, that everyone would understand, here, they are now entering, instead of this morning, lesijadovici, freebaroci, seciks and lufti butts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50194	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) Balša Bozovic, on what basis? Professor Atlagic didn't mention you. (Balsa Bozovic: All right, then. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50195	Mr. Marinkovic, I'm advertising the dignity of the National Assembly, for the simple reason that someone who calls himself a professor allowed himself to tarnish his reputation, not only the university he teaches at, but all of his colleagues who teach at the same time by cursing, misbehaving, by insulting, by being half-drunk, obviously coming to today's session...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50196	My colleague Bozovic, I am taking this time from the time of the parliamentary group. Let's get on with the work. There's no point in insulting Professor Atlagic in such an assumed way, anyone. He didn't deserve it. None of us deserve it. Please don't. I'm in charge of the O.R. here. We've been working for three days. Please, you're a reasonable man. Thank you. Let's move on. Milan Knezevic has a word. Here you go, Doctor Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50197	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we are discussing the budget as one of the most important documents of a country in which all the leverages, the functions of a country are planned for next year. Of course, all my colleagues have so far brought out the good side of the budget that is both developmental and balanced. I would close, because the debate on the budget is about to end, to recapitulate, although all this is said to be three basic characteristics of this budget. An increase in the standard of living for Serbian citizens, a higher amount for capital investments and a reduction in the burden on employers. The draft budget certainly shows that the finance ministry and the government have properly listened to the needs of the economy and its proposals, which is necessary for the further development of the economy in the coming year. As for raising the standard of living, of course, the first thing is to increase the pensions that were on average between eight and 13% and for which the budget allocations amounted to 35 billion for the following year. The budget also plans an increase in public sector wages, from 8% to 13%, and therefore provides for 35 billion funding. Also, what colleagues said and the minister, which in this package is also going to improve living standards, is an increase in the minimum labour price that since the new year will be 27,000 dinars. As for the increase in capital investment money, 220 billion were allocated. It is about 30% more than this year and these funds are defined for projects such as the construction of the Moravski Corridor, the highway Požega – Preljina, the completion of the bypass around Belgrade, the road Surcin – Obrenovac. It should be said that, for 2019, more money is planned for subsidies. So a total of 101 billion dinars, which is more, because this year's subsidy planning was 89.3 billion. Most of this money next year, 41% will be donated to farmers. This speaks of the government's policy that takes care of this area, even though some MPs were critical of the agricultural donations. Then 17% of the economy, 14.5 railways, 9% of the roads. So, agriculture in the woods, not to speak in percentages, is going to get six billion dinars more than this year, and the economy budget is going to be more than 2.5 billion dinars this year. It should also be noted that the areas close to me will be increased again, which is that for the Ministry of Education the funds will be increased by 6% in the following year and for the Ministry of Health 7.7%. As far as the Ministry of Education is concerned, there's a lot to say. We had a lot of laws, adopted, and here only two things to mention. These funds are provided for, among other things, the provision of 8,000 classrooms for the use of digital materials, which is not a small number. Eight thousand classrooms for digitisation and education of children in the area. What my colleague Professor Atlagic mentioned earlier was important and what was done by the Ministry of Education, it is the formation of a Fund for Scientific and Research Action. For years, the area had been unsettled, or rather not properly arranged, and there needed a lot of work and effort. Thank God, the Ministry of Education, which has tried and found a way to form this Fund with clearly defined plans and goals to achieve and to make progress in this area. In this respect, it is also very important that what is in the debate today, and this is also a change of patent laws, because these are also aspects that affect the improvement of scientific and research work. I brought the main things, in my opinion, that my colleagues had brought before me. And, finally, it should be mentioned again, because the attack in the newspaper, even more so than here in the Assembly, is that the reduction is imposed on employers of 0.75% something that is very little. If that measure were so easy, why hasn't some government and government of these MPs done so far across the street? It looks a little bit, but it was hard to do. Because to translate a little bit into government budget money, that 0.75% cost a budget of about 12 billion dinars. That's 100 million euros. But in this way, there is another aspect of incentives and listening to the needs of the economy to make more investment and new business investments and incentives, all with a view to increasing employment and employment in the following year. To repeat because of the viewers, we heard today the latest data that unemployment is record low so far, that it fell to 12.3%, and at the time of those who were loud and loud from the bench, at the time of the previous government, DS, unemployment, to repeat once again, was 25.8%. The figures are sometimes harsh, but they were cruel by those who did not work properly, abused power and damaged their country and placed it in a pre-bankrotic position in which the government first formed President Alexander Vukic and the excellently responsible and committed policy continues and the government of President Ana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50198	Thank you. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. She's not present. Tiana Davidovci. She's not present. Olivera Ognjanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50199	The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, the proposed state budget for 2019 and a set of reform laws suggest an improvement in the standard of living of our citizens, economic growth and economic progress. We have extraordinary economic results this year, for the first nine months the rate of economic growth is 4.5%, the third year in a row we have surpluses in the budget, which is 28 billion dinars. The draft budget is the result of measures taken in 2014, designed to speed up development, increase earnings and pensions and continue reforms. The main objectives are development support for the economy, reducing the burden on earnings, continuing to strengthen the economy, raising health services, improving the work of the public administration and improving the quality of life of citizens. The budget will be balanced, as it also envisions the growth of public sector wages and pensions. An additional 33 billion dinars were scheduled for a planned salary increase and 35 billion dinars for a planned pension increase. This is the result of the difficult reforms, which we implemented from 2014 until a month ago, that is, the burden that our citizens, our children and pensioners have endured on their backs for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50200	Thank you, colleague. Time's up on the list. Thank you. We're moving on. Since the list of parliamentary groups has no longer been declared for the word, that is, the time has elapsed, before the conclusion of a joint, principled, single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. Dr. Crescent. Dragan Vesovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's too bad, Minister Mali's out. The other day, a list of immaterial and cultural heritage, the UNESCO World List, included Serbian geese. Now, what does a goose have to do with the budget, I'll tell you. Namely, in a pirate song, the pirates say that people who are eager for leadership often give up their humanity. Now, you see, I see the budget as a common wallet, and that wallet is filled with all of us, and those who vote for power and those who vote for opposition and we all fill it together, and we ask ourselves together how we spend it. Of course, we're not wondering, and that's where you lose that segment of humanity. So it's not right for 62 points to be united, for the budget to be fourth as a law, for amendments, which, with full right, give both positions and oppositions, to make it impossible to amend the budget and thus deprive ourselves of the possibility of ever knowing whether that budget is good or bad. A moment ago, not once, I heard from esteemed SNS colleagues that the budget is the most significant legal act to be passed in one year. I absolutely agree with that, but if it's the most significant legal act, why don't you let us talk about it humanly. And again and here comes what Marko Miljanov, Kuč and Drekalovic, spoke about what humanity is, it's humanity to defend others from yourself. Let's make this an appeal that next year really gives us a chance to all talk about the budget. As a result, we remain deprived of the opportunity to hear some constructive advice, some proposal that may be meaningful by the opposition. So, I don't think it's right, I wanted to tell you so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50202	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50203	I thank the chairman. It is a great disappointment for me that today, or tonight, is not the finance minister here to hear the final words of the MP. I have completely consciously left the largest amount of time just to talk about the burning problem in Serbia. In addition to him, neither Minister Djordjevic nor Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic is at the debate today, with all due respect to the minister who, unfortunately, is now gone, and which I want to do most, is not concerned. I don't know who could answer these questions I want to ask. I sincerely hope, since I have enough time...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50204	There is Minister Ruzic, very versatile and don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50205	Yes, I know, and I respect his versatility, far from it, but simply, this is not in the portfolio of his ministry, and I'm afraid that Minister Ruzic will not, with the best will, be able to answer me most effectively. Last year in December, at this time, we discussed the same budget and together in a united debate with about 30 points, we discussed the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children. I tried and then to point out all the irregularities and shortcomings of that law and the problems we're going to face with that law since July this year. Unfortunately, I failed, even it was the only incident I had with Minister Djordjevic, since I had a pleasant experience, as far as he was concerned in the Assembly, that while he was Minister of Defence and as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, he always answered the MPs and I am surprised that he was not here tonight. I can tell you the truth, I'm rightfully wondering if maybe he didn't get scared of the debate, 'cause he wasn't even in the assembly room yesterday. (Alexander Martinovic: The man is in Mexico, at the inauguration of President Mexico. All right, well, I respect a colleague who's in Mexico. With that in mind, Minister Mali had been here a while ago and he could have kept the assembly debate so much longer to answer the questions asked, but let's put that aside. So, when we discussed in December the Law on the financial support of families with children, we were already able to see what the problems with the application of this law would be, and then we could see that the budget did not reserve enough funds to help pregnant women and maternity mothers in Serbia to have one dignified motherhood. We have the same situation today. Today, unfortunately, double the amount of legal proposals is on the agenda of this session, and now we have 62 points of the agenda, and I tried to add two days ago and 63 points to the agenda, which is the Law on the financial support of families with children, to try to find funds for common forces, common interest, to try to find funds for one of the most vulnerable groups of social ones in Serbia today. What are these problems? So, since July of the month, forts and maternity homes in Serbia have received solutions that provide them with money, i.e. compensation from 1,000 dinars, 2,000 dinars, 3000 dinars. We have received assurances from both resolution ministers that by the end of the year this problem will be solved, we have even received assurances in particular, precisely at which points this problem will be solved. Here, it's the end of the year, there's a budget debate. Not only have we not received a proposal to amend and supplement the law, but we have not received in the budget assurances that there are certain funds for this purpose and that during 2019 we will discuss in general the amendments and additions to this law. It was one slap to all the mothers in Serbia, today, I can say it freely. Among other things, on several occasions we received assurances that there was no money in the budget, therefore, in the course of 2018 by both ministers, we received information that there was no money in the budget and we were very patient as the "Moms are the law", waiting to see the draft budget for 2019 and indeed, no funds for this purpose, but we succeeded for this short time, as far as we had before us, to analyse the budget and find, or to make one more rational distribution within the budget and say, yes, we can also have for what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated funds for, but we can make one more humane, one more rational distribution within the budget, so that we can separate funds for both mothers and future mothers and for many other vulnerable social groups, which unfortunately do not recognise in this budget. What are mothers looking for, so many of them can't get together? So, mothers in Serbia are looking for a dignified motherhood that says that every mother, whether she was in a working relationship or not, has the right to compensation that will be the smallest in the size of a republican minimumer. I'll remind you of a republican minimumer in Serbia that's just over 20,000, 25,000 dinars. If we take as evidence that 65,000 babies were born in Serbia in 2017, we are talking about around 20 billion dinars. This is the roughest possible bill that we could carry out, with the fact that you have to know that this rough bill means that at the same time they're already detached into the budget some funds, because some mothers have those 18 months of employment, which are a condition for full compensation to get it during maternity leave or leave for child care. Therefore, these mothers also demand that if they were encouraged to have a third and fourth children, their compensations coming on the basis of a child’s allowance would not be abolished because their incomes were temporarily increased because they would receive compensation or incentive, a long - announced incentive from the State for that third and fourth children. Then, to those mothers who have given birth to children with disabilities, not to be deprived of the compensation that those children will receive on the basis of other people’s care and help, because that purpose that this compensation has is not the same as the compensation they need to receive on the basis of profits. Then, to redefine what is the maximum compensation that the Serbian family can receive and not punish those women that are most successful among us. I'm sorry that the finance minister isn't here, and I'm sure he has that information, when we talk about a group of women who have the highest income in the country, that it's a group of 2,300 women, according to the data given by NAED, and that certainly not all of them in the category of women who need to receive full compensation, or compensation that will have five average fees, maximum ones, as well as... It's the law they're proposing. Also, a great sin has been committed against women who are filling the Republic of Serbia's budget, and these are entrepreneurs. Mat position has been put in, and they have to choose whether to use maternity leave and leave for child care or close their firms. In particular, women who are involved in the provision of health care - dentists, doctors, pharmacists. So, these are women who not only have to hesitate between these two decisions, but they have to, if they want to use maternity leave or leave for child care, to permanently shut down their firm and re-enter the procedure of opening a company, because they have no one to transfer their business to. Is there money in the budget? It does, and I'll be very brief, because all my colleagues have pointed out that several times. So, we do have if we partially deny the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, if we lift the cabinets to the vice-presidents of the government, and if we lift the cabinets of the Ministers of Defence, because the ministers' resolutions match. So we have money in the budget. I'm sorry the minister isn't here. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50206	Thank you, colleague Macura. Let me tell you about Minister Djordjevic. He's at the inauguration of the new president of Mexico, Obrador. You know that Mexico is a strategically important country to us in that part of the world. Thank you. Minister Branko Ruzic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50207	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, I want to partially answer these questions that you raised. What is most important is that the budget is balanced, that it is social and development-oriented, that we have enough money to increase wages in the public sector from 7% to 12%, that, of course, there will be additional funds for both the military and health care and for many other segments of our society, and that is the general assessment that we are on the right track. As far as these criticisms are concerned, you know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the President of the Republic in the focus of action, has set up this very most intelligent policy, the fight against the white plague. A law on financial support for the family has been passed. Given that the coverage is much larger, some nuances are needed and some corrections are not at all controversial. So that's something we're dealing with. The Commission is currently locating those problems that occur in the implementation of the law itself in order to regulate the issue. What is also important is that, when we talk about dignified parenting and at all about the situation to be encouraged, incentives are that, as the whole of Serbia and all its citizens and citizens know, it is defined that the third and fourth children get 12,000 and 18,000 dinars, respectively, but that, of course, is not in the function of mothers not working, but that in some way they agree to that standard and that is certainly a major step in this Government of the Republic of Serbia. What we certainly expect to be resolved in this future period, without some unnecessary politicisation, or some redistribution in the budget, given that the budget is indeed, as I said, both socially and developmentally oriented, it is precisely through the work of this Commission that the best and sustainable solutions and the correcting of those mistakes that have really occurred in a small part so that all of this, which you have partly talked about, is regulated and obtained a positive epilogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50208	Thank you very much, Minister Rose. (Tatyana Macura: Replica. () Right to replica, MP Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50209	Thank you. The message moms now listening to the argument and waiting for, believe me, first, the handball's on RTS 2. So we don't even have a direct transmission and these mothers can't go through with it. So, moms are angry and they are rightly angry, because at the end of 2018, on several occasions not from you, Minister Ruzic, but from other resolution ministers, they will be assured that the problem they do not deny will be solved by the end of this year. Not only did he not solve the problem, he did not see this problem resolved in 2019, as the budget was planned. So, I continue to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is room for this issue to be reopened through the debate on amendments and to respect the arguments that we have made, which is that they must be found, I don't know how, that is, we have offered a solution how, but if you think that's not an adequate solution, offer any other solution and find the money that all mothers in Serbia need to have a decent motherhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50210	Thank you, colleague. The word is Mr. George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50211	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the respected Ministers of Saradics, my attention, in addition to all these laws my colleagues discussed, was also directed to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on property taxes. In fact, the Socialist Movement and I are, of course, always focused on the issue of justice and in this direction were and there will be further discussions when we come to a part of the debate in particular when it comes to amendments, because we have also submitted certain amendments to this law. In fact, what I would like to point out in this principle debate is that there is a bit of an unexplainable provision that has now been changed in the previous law, which is that the property tax is not paid on land up to the surface of 10 acres. Our position is and I think it even stems from the old law, but we have proposed by amendment that it be defined, that on the first 10 acres of land no property tax is paid by any taxpayer. You know, if someone has 11 acres, then he's under the obligation to pay a tax on property, and if he was 9.99, then he's not. Why is this another reason for justice? This is because in 2014, by changing the way land is calculated, a certain number of citizens in Serbia, by switching to a digital calculation of the land area of plots that were below 10 acres suddenly got more than 10 acres, so people who bought the plots of 9.5 today may have more than 10 acres so they don't know that. I think it's absolutely fair that each of the landowners on the first 10 acres, if that's the limit value, which the ministry has defined to retain, should not be paid a tax on property, but only on the one over that surface. By the time I touched the catastra, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the registration procedure in the Katastar of the immovableity of the waterways was interesting. This law has made many interesting solutions to basic laws, and we see some new solutions when it comes to these changes and additions. In fact, when we talk about justice, that's where the amendment responded. Certain types of confirmation can no longer be obtained in the Republic of Serbia, which the state authorities are obliged to possess, and these are certain certificates relating to whether something has been the subject of a certificate or a court ruling in certain courts. In fact, what I am absolutely, certainly familiar with, is that the archives of the Court of Justice in Obrenovac do not exist, so it is unfair that the citizens of Obrenovac, without their responsibility, suffer in any way the adverse consequences of the fact that these archives do not exist. And in that part, he reacted. There has also been a reaction to the work that I think one, conditionally said, is a small concession that will have to be made by notaries, and will simplify the procedure for both citizens and catastros, which is that we suggest that they are public notebooks or as it is popular and easier to say – notaries, in addition to all the documentation they apply to sign up for property rights, are obliged to deliver and confirm that registration fees have been paid. This would avoid citizens going to the cadastre, especially paying those taxes, and thus disbursing the cadasar of obligations to take care of those taxes. Of course, there must not be a small reduction in the control of the catastras, nor the right and responsibility of the catasters when they control what they receive from the notaries, because in the previous period, it will probably be for a while until things are followed and the practice is uniform, they have witnessed that a lot of requirements for enrolment have been denied, because the notaries did not provide all the documentation they are obliged to deliver – evidence of the existence of marriage, statements of marriage mates, data about them. I see that part of this law is regulated again. I only hope, when the 2019 budget is at stake, I am not professional enough and I hope that these days I will get an answer, I have made sure that enough funds are provided to match and earn the judges for violations, i.e. to match those profits with the amounts of earnings received by other judges, because all other rights and ob-bonds are equal to other judges of regular courts, except in this segment. We've heard that this budget and military budget is, so one of the nadal structures is that it's a war budget. It is my great pleasure that from 2012 until the end of 2018, it is on its feet that it does not have to be restricted to these security segments that are very important for the Republic of Serbia, but in a future period of pay, from other social aids when it comes to security forces, but also weapons, is investing in the Army of Serbia. You know, it's not this government's fault that they have to spend it, it's the ones who put us in a position to buy back now some of the things we've had, which, because of the petty commissions, they've sold for good reason. Today we pay a great price, but the reason for that clearly shows what happened today. We can say that we are very proud and live in the Republic of Serbia which has provided justice for all. So, everyone who's been prosecuted in Serbia's courts is wherever the evidence was found, being found guilty and responsible for crimes wherever they were committed. Today, we are witnessing that a convicted criminal, a proven criminal, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has been given a liberating verdict. This has shown that the lives of Serbs outside Serbia are not equally valuable and that we would never again be in a position to feel humiliated, Serbia's Army, Serbia's security forces, Serbia's economy must be strong enough to never think of anyone ever having to endanger any right of any citizen in the Republic of Serbia, but also any Serb living outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50212	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50213	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, here, we end this principle debate. What I must say, and what we had the opportunity to hear that some MPs felt that there was not much to hear – it was heard and I think it was always really good that ministers had enough understanding to look for the best solutions to make to certain legislative proposals, that even those who may have had shortcomings somewhere, that there should not be another mistake twice, and therefore we should not look at it from that side that someone does not want or will not make certain changes in the law, as we had opportunities, colleagues, to hear when it comes to moms. There are a lot of laws that are cut in their responsibilities, which are listed problems. We know that, let's say, there are different points of view when it comes to moms, especially when it comes to women are employers and when it comes to, say, countries, like the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I think somewhere a solution is always good to do, considering all relevant subjects interested in a particular topic. So I think that the ministry will certainly find some proposals for solutions for certain target groups that now have real problems when it comes to funding, for example, maternity leave, women who are dealing with small businesses. That's what, say, and with the support of the Business Women's Association, we really know what the problems are. I think that solutions must be made in a certain, more exact way. That there is certainly a good desire and political will to meet everyone is certain that in the discussion we had the opportunity to hear that a greater and stronger contribution should be made to agriculture. After this principle debate, we will have a session of the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds, where we will also have a proposal for certain solutions, such as amendments to the Committee, for certain higher allocations for agriculture, and precisely defined from which position. The finance ministry has come into contact with its position to redistribute. But I have to say that there is also a desire and that certain laws, such as the fees in their proposals that have been made, are really giving a dispensation to the economy. And that's what we have to say today when certain MPs talk about how there is no desire at all to support the private sector. For the first time in Serbia's budget, we have private sector support, first through a reduction in mandatory taxes and a 1% contribution, the second in the fee reduction. We've waited a long time for that law and amendments and additions to the law. We waited four years until all economic reforms and fiscal consolidation passed. And that redundancy of the economy, which even the employers themselves didn't know about, but learned from the finance minister, when he had one set, when he presented his budget, only then did they essentially see how much it would contribute to opening up this better investment environment. What does that mean for Serbian citizens? So new jobs, means new jobs. It is these results that we have today, which say that from 2014 to 2018 370,000 new jobs have been opened, in fact, the results of all these efforts of four years, and ultimately of this Parliament. We've had three conferences since 2012. We have passed over 600 laws and acts and documents, interpretations and decisions, which have changed many things in Serbia. Some people may not see it and may simply not want to admit our political inexperience, but everyday life shows that much has progressed since 2012 until today. What I cannot understand, not only as an SNS MP, but as a human, is that you simply do not admit that there is an improvement in everyday life and the very economy and the citizens of Serbia themselves, who are also users of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, for the first time in six years, this budget goes from those frameworks in which it worked in 2012, which are huge borrowings, a major budget deficit. Even 163 billion dinars were deficits for 2009. When the biggest debts, the largest tranche of credit, when we paid only interest per year on loans of 1.5% of the billion euros plus the principal that went, you get into a situation where you have a project budget deficit of only 22.9 billion dinars, which is 0.5% of GDP, you come into a situation that you have a surplus three years in a row, which means you've been charging something in the past. When it comes to incomes, or taxes, show in fact the great responsibility of all policies of governments that have been since 2012 and Mr. Vukic has been Prime Minister and now that the president of the state and Mrs. Ana Brnabic has practically inherited a good economic picture of the Republic of Serbia and continued such a policy along with her team. So what this budget really shows is that after six years we're talking about how to distribute the budget to employees of state institutions, that pensioners have much higher incomes, that means that they have increases, we're talking about having much more investment, investments, especially when it comes to infrastructure, that we're talking about now that it's balanced, balanced giving and when it comes to costs and when it comes to income and ultimately we have that part that's very important, that third element that's talking about subsidies, that's talking about encouraging, increasing the competitiveness of the economy. I must say that on the moment you relieve the economy and in your talks with the trade unions, you raise that minimumtor from 24,000 dinars a month to 27,000 dinars a month, it really shows that Serbia is moving in one developmental trend and that these economic activities will become more and more frequent and bigger and bigger. It is, in fact, the interest of the state not only foreign, but also domestic investors are opening new jobs. We have here amendments and additions to the Investment Act. It was this law that we evened out the status of both domestic and foreign investors two years ago. Thus, the state has continued to define that over 100 billion dinars provide support, i.e. grants for both small and medium-sized enterprises 17.75 billion dinars and agriculture 41.5 billion. Don't forget that in 2012, it was 19 billion. This means that the doubled practical amount is intended for future support to farmers. For tourism 1.27 billion dinars. Do not forget that we have introduced 100,000 vouchers for tourist services every year in Serbia. For culture, we now have very large funds to invest in the construction of cultural objects. Concert hall and reconstruction of all objects related to cultural activities. We also have a section relating to railways and roads that are of great importance to us. For the first time, we are talking about pensions where the Serbian budget does not participate with 54% of the participation, when we talk about the total amount of pension payments, but we are talking about all 27.4%. This means that Serbia has gone primarily to rationalise its costs, and on the other hand has increased its revenues rapidly, and that means that Serbia really has stable finances. Are there enough increases for pensioners of 8-13% for state institutions of 7-12%? Of course not. Whenever you talk about how much increases should be made, they should be consistent with the possibilities of revenue, i.e. the revenue side of the budget. This means that Serbia is actually on its way to making further progress and that this growth that we're talking about... The growth total number of business activities increased compared to last year, so when we watch 12 months with 31 December for the previous year. When we talk about this growth, so we have to ask a question – what is the initial state? Our initial balance for the projected budget for next year is 31 December of the previous year. So if we found that in the previous year, so this one now, we have a growth of 4.2%, we're conservative as the state said -- we're going to have 3.5. If you remember, last year we said it would be 3.5% growth, but it came to 4.2. This means that we are now extremely strict – there will be a 3.5% of GDP growth, it will certainly be over it. You've all noticed the moment when all international organizations, which deal with finance, and so for God's sake and the Fiscal Council, when they saw that growth crossing 4%, immediately began to make some estimates of what a pension increase methodology should look like, how pensions should actually be coordinated. Everyone started looking for certain models to increase their wages. After all, I have to say that the criticism that applies to which no pay grade law has been passed at all, I think it's a good time to postpone it for a year, and precisely because many categories have given their criticisms, especially the part relating to education unions that have not been satisfied with this bill on payment classes. I think it obviously takes more time to reach a consensus in society when it comes to paying classes, to really in one fair, extremely correct way all institutions with their employees are in a certain way justly distributed when it comes to wages. So these laws that have been given to the budget, along with the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year, are in fact an integral part of the policy, development policy, not only economically, but also a policy relating to education and culture and the part relating to health, and where a particular focus is given on the part that all citizens need to develop. The most important thing to say is that both the Serbian Parliament and the Finance Committee have discussed with all institutions in the assembly's field of work, such as REM, the Securities Committee, the Energy Agency. We also had talks with those institutions that are also part of the budget, but they report to the Finance Committee. As for the 2019 budget, I think for the first time we have talked openly about whether certain institutions are satisfied with the draft budget, as well as their financial plan. I think everyone was at the point that this was a good time when Serbia really entered calm waters, as far as public finances are concerned, that the political challenges that exist simply predicted all possible risks in this budget. For this reason in Voting Day, I believe that those who may and may not agree politically with the SNS and their coalition partners for this budget should indeed support this kind of programme of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-30-0.u50214	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. I am now concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 62 of the agenda. We continue to work on the details Monday, December 3rd, at 10:00 p.m. This time I would also like to thank Minister Sinisha Malo, Branko Ružić, Sarčević and their teams for their dedicated work. Have a nice weekend and I'll see you Monday.
