ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a turbulent political period at the previous National Assembly session, where we discussed migrant birds, bats in Europe, bat regulations for bats, and during that time in some other parliaments talk about Serbia. EU Special Rapporteur, i.e. The European Parliament for Serbia, David McAllister, recently submitted a report to the European Parliament on Serbia's progress towards the European integration path and the amendments to the report followed. The most MPs in the European Parliament have submitted the same amendment, which is not to exclude the correction of borders and the exchange of territories as the outcome of dialogues leading in Brussels, Belgrade and Pristina. So not only the correction of borders, but also the exchange of territories between the two, according to the sovereign state. In this regard, I would like to refer a parliamentary question to the President of the Republic, who is on behalf of Serbia, on the basis of which legal norms, on the basis of which legal act is the President's authority to decide on a change of territory, i.e. about the settlement of parts of the territory? So the President of the Republic swore in the National Assembly that it would preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, including KIM, as an autonomous province in its composition. On what basis did this topic come out in the first place? We had a chance to see, in the past week, that the policy led by the President of the Republic about KIM was defeated. Is what was defeated then preceded now to this new policy, which includes the exchange of territories, and is it possible that the National Assembly, the MPs, are making themselves dead and talking about migrant birds while talking about the violation of state territory to the quasi terrorist state of Kosovo. Also, the House of Lords of the British Parliament recently adopted a report entitled "United Kingdom and the Western Balkans", which deals with Balkan states on more than 100 pages, and Serbia's work says efforts will be made, encourage institutions in Belgrade to soften their stance towards NATO pact and deepen NATO's pact and the Republic of Serbia's co-operation in the future. Does this mean that the Republic of Serbia should become a member of the NATO Pact and does this happen at a small door, is this model that was in Montenegro where only the assembly majority came forward, although the majority of citizens are against Montenegro's NATO membership? Yesterday we had a scandal in the Serbian government. Kyle Scott, the US ambassador, otherwise the governor of Serbia, said very clearly that there is no need to talk about the so-called. Kosovo, rather than very clearly saying that Kosovo is a sovereign state and that we should start treating Kosovo that way. Is it possible that such a statement in the government of the Republic of Serbia, seat of the executive government, has passed without any reaction? I can understand that the United States is not like other states, if it were in a larger rank, it may not be expected to be expelled, although it would be desirable and a sovereign state would do so. Is it possible that we can't send out a single press release, and we could send out press notes for many fewer things and then boast about how we protect our interests?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45876	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45877	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer the parliamentary issue to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. The Ministry of Labour and Employment is familiar with the problem that the Association for Children's Assistance with intellectual difficulties in development in the Municipality of Alexandrovac, given the large number of applications and requests both submitted by the association and parents. This association has been in full labor since July of the current year. So, it's about the Association that's licensed by the Ministry of Social Protection Services, primarily daily and educational services, and this association wouldn't have survived, and it wouldn't have included this kind of social protection if it hadn't so far had the Ministry's support and co-financing from the Ministry's budget. So, I will explain, the problem arises in July 2018 by the Ministry absolutely suspending the dedicated transfer funds to the Municipality of Alexandrovac after the established auditor or audit committee, so that the Association was only reduced to the funds of the Municipality of Alexandrovac, which for the first time in the current year provided for these funds, but not enough to establish this service. So, there's been a very big problem, because the Association has been there for 15 years, the Association is in total labor interruption. The users of these services are the only way to use services and, ultimately, 15 years are the only way of life where they have managed in this way to enter socio-social flows, but also, as there are young people with child development difficulties, and school flows. So I ask the Ministry, given everything forward, and given the seriousness of the problem, since they are also familiar with the State Secretariat and the Ministry are making efforts to solve this problem, but here are four months without any solution to this problem, that together with the local self-government of the Municipality of Alexandrovac this problem and solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45878	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45879	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask the question of the Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Mr. Djordjevic, as regards the Triestenik family, the village of Odzac, where parents live with eight children and who were given a solution three years ago that prohibits the use of a residential facility, a solution to the construction inspection. So three years later, that family lives on in these conditions. This is the pink Serbia you talk about every day on your pink televisions, Serbia where you have surpluses in the budget, Serbia where the golden age occurred, Serbia where our Arab brothers, Germans and everyone else are just not our brothers. So this is the family of ten members who live in an object that has been issued a solution to the collapse. The Centre for Social Work, all institutions, no one cares that the family who is in a state of social need should be helped and provided adequate accommodation. It is also aside for the state that both neighbours and relatives and friends are willing to help financially, but unfortunately our institutions, our ministry has no hearing. I call on Minister Djordjevic to answer me - how will he resolve and how will he allow a roof over the head of a family like this? So eight children can't sleep at night fearing for their lives. It is Serbia today in real life, not pink, as you wish to present it. I also ask Minister Djordjevic the second question, which concerns the law on funding, i.e. financial support for families with children. So, in light of a huge campaign that you've conducted to raise Serbia's talent, the promises of the president of the Republic, the resolute ministers that mothers will get incentives to give birth, you even wanted them to make money to be bought to give birth to children, we came to this day on the street to have moms fight for their rights during maternity leave. So you cut them off, you abolished an old law that guaranteed all the families that when they went to maternity leave, they would have 100% of the compensation they received while they were working. Now it's less 30-50%, in some cases and less. So that's the policy your government represents on the issue of birth and on the issue, eventually, if you will, and demographics. Also, I'm asking another question to Minister Djordjevic about the national SOS phone. So we've been listening to the story for nine months that the victims of violence in Serbia will have the opportunity to turn over an SOS phone for help. Unfortunately, here's to the day of that SOS phone gone. And not only is he gone, but the state is humiliating all those people at risk, because when they call for that number that you gave them and publicly announce it, there's a machine that tells them they have to wait. Well, you now consider what kind of message you send to the citizens of Serbia, when someone who is in such a state, who is being harassed, whose safety is threatened dares to turn that phone around, and the answering machine on his phone says, "I'm sorry, stay on the phone." To this extent goes the insolence and insult of Serbian citizens, that they call at night thinking that the line is really busy during the day. It all came down to the fact that it's about who's actually going to take the money to install the SOS phone, because twice a tender goes down, and there are legitimate insinuations that someone wants to set up a competition for someone close to the current regime... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45880	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45881	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In fact, yesterday's memorandum signed with the US company Bechtel related to a project to build a Moravian corridor, which was signed in the government building of the Republic of Serbia, cast US ambassadors' inappropriate behaviour in Serbia into shadow. Namely, on the question of journalists -- how much hope for peace there is when there is constant pressure on Serbia for talks with the so-called. Kosovo's government, in which half the people who have criminal records or are facing prosecution, the US ambassador to Belgrade, Kyle Scott, responded that it is not so-called. Kosovo's government, already ruling Kosovo, saying it or they view Kosovo as an independent and sovereign state. He further said that Kosovo representatives were elected and that they were keeping in touch with them as with any of the representatives of any country in the region. Yes, esteemed colleagues, that's said by an American diplomat. So US Ambassador to Belgrade Kyle Scott said yesterday that the Kosovo government is not so-called. but the government of Kosovo, which is independent and which is a sovereign state with its elected representatives. My question is - what will Mr. Kyle Scott, as an ambassador of the United States, take on the foreign ministry, according to this one? Namely, this is one of the most flexible violations of diplomatic customs, not only of diplomatic customs, but also of the humiliation of the Republic of Serbia by US Ambassador Kyle Scott. I really expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to react properly and I hope that it will not wait for a legal deadline for them to deliver an answer to this parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45882	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45883	My questions today concern a more vivid theatre of absurdity in which we have lived for years, the phantom and incompetence directors of the museum, the papal digitisation where almost half of Serbian citizens have no sewerage, the godless neutrality as an excuse for foreign policy wandering, the choice of a dean convicted of discrimination, trade unions that instead of protecting labour rights deal with the pressures on freedom of speech, pig's hooves and chicken legs as major export products. I refer the first question to the Minister of Culture – is he intending to do something about the illegal installation of V.D. Director of the National Museum Bojana Boris Breskovic, which expired on 13 June this year, which was also established by the founding of the labour inspection. The National Museum in Belgrade opened on June 28th, and the question arises – in what capacity did Mrs. Boris Breskovic welcome officials, as it was only August 2nd and by an illegal government decision appointed as V.D. Director. In accordance with the Law on Culture and the Statute of the National Museum, the Government can appoint a V.D. the Director without a competition in the event that the Director ceases his duties before the end of the term of office, or where the public competition fails, and those conditions are not met in this case. Although, of course, all well-intentioned citizens look forward to the fact that the National Museum is finally open, the question also arises – did it have to be spent 320,000 euros at the opening ceremony, could these funds have been spent differently, as well as on what criteria were allocated? Due to these and other issues he has raised, cancellations at the National Museum, after 30 years of work, were given to Radoslav Piljak, the chief trustee of the Independence Union, otherwise the world's top restorer of icons. One of the questions is whether it is true that the funds were spent at the ceremony, received companies and individuals associated with the Creative Industry Council, which was formed this year by the Prime Minister. The problem of quality rebuilding the National Museum is also a question for itself. If the correct information is that a flood occurred last week in an archaeological material dump or that it has recently cancelled the announcement, it is clear what quality it is. Speaking of museums, another question for the minister of culture, as well as the minister of education and science, whether they consider it appropriate to appoint Ivona Jeftic as V.d. Director of the “Nikola Tesla” Museum? The recent city secretary for culture and the public has become known in recent days for a statement on the second Kosovo color. She is otherwise a professor of Serbian language and literature, and has entered the world of culture from the post office of Serbia. With such a history, she replaced Branimir Jovanovic as one of Tesla's greatest acquaintances. I will remind you, Ivona Jeftic, as the city secretary, censored the exhibition "Uncensored", and was also charged against it for the award of money from the city's cultural competition, only established organisations that have nothing to do with culture. The next question is which I periodically refer to the foreign minister, when will Serbia's foreign policy strategy be adopted? The adoption of the document was announced more than five years ago when then Minister Mrkic said the strategy would be in session procedure within two weeks. In the absence of strategy and declared, and by no means do you recognise neutrality, there is wide open space for non-consistencies policy whose results we are witnessing. Without clearly defined values, interests and goals, we can't even know where we're going, and we'll just keep wandering. In addition, we are facing a situation that goes beyond constitutional authority, the president is leading a foreign policy that is often subject to day-to-day political interests. The next question, according to the environment ministry, is that up to 55% of Serbian citizens live in sewage-related facilities, with only 7.3% of these wastewaters being treated biologically, while the chemical treatment rate is even lower. The average age of the network is 35 to 40 years, and it is necessary to build more than 10,000 km of pipelines, as well as 359 treatment plants. In addition, only 3% of waste is recycled, and EU requirements are to reach at least 50% by 2020. A question for the Prime Minister, does the government intend to significantly increase the currently minor environmental budget, which is one of the key issues for our future? Finally, whether the competent ministers, primarily the culture minister, will do something about pressure on journalist Tatjana Vojtehovski over the show of accidents in the company "Milan Blagojevic - Targetska" AD Luciani. The activities of the union organisation of this company, which today organise the suspension of work in protest over this show, further contribute to creating an atmosphere of intimidation and attempts to limit freedom of speech. According to NUNS data on attacks and pressures on journalists, 69 incidents have been recorded since the beginning of this year. Question for the Minister of Education, does he intend to react to the election of Branislav Ristivojevic as the dean of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad? According to media reports, Mr Ristivojevic was first-degreed in May for discrimination against women and members of the LDBT population, and Branko Jankovic's Trustee for Equality launched a strategic litigation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45884	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45885	I thank the chairman. I have a prepared question for Minister Mihajlovic, but since she will probably come here today or tomorrow to the Assembly, I will ask those questions to her myself. I would like to join my colleague Alexic for Minister Djordjevic on this phone, the ministry, which is not working. The answering machine. I think it's a kind of scandal that SOS phone, a phone intended for victims of violence, and those who want to report cases of violence, to report to the answering machine. It's better if the phone isn't there, that we didn't advertise it, rather than attend this kind of deception. My second question goes to the address of the gentleman, i.e. Minister Djordjevic, I am here at the tide when he was asking that question, he answered something inexorably, there was a controversy about other things, those famous amendments of the ruling majority, and then I just think that the public, and I, as a folk MP, deserve an exhausted answer. It concerns early pensions, i.e. going to early retirement for a category that has so-called pensions. One condition, but there is no age condition, which has a working internship enough, and more than enough for a full-time and full-time pension, but because they haven't completed their years of age, they have a permanent reduction. I didn't believe in the first mah, I thought it was a misunderstanding, some mistake, then Minister Djordjevic himself said it wasn't a mistake, and that's what he said European practice, and in other European countries it is. At the previous or the previous session of the Assembly, we corrected partly that injustice for those who have a well-favoured working experience in these activities and occupations with the benefits of a work experience, and then we told them that they would not be punished, which is logical and normal. But you still have a case of people who got a job, weren't chasing yawns when they were 18, 20 years old getting a job, working 35, 40 years and more and being permanently punished for working out of youth. So I think it takes an answer and an explanation of why they are permanently punished, not just say they have a decrease until they're over that age. Unfortunately, the third and main question I have to refer to the Prime Minister, although I know she's not here, she's formally the main and responsible one, was actually supposed to be at the address of the president of the state, because he put them all there, but anyway. It is the latest incident and the conflict between ministers in the government, which is neither the first nor the last, but this time it also has an international connotation, it is all statements, i.e. above all reactions to US Ambassador Scott's statement in the government, where he said that Kosovo is no so-called Kosovo. a state, but a state's right, full of justice to keep in touch with. I, of course, condemn it, always speak in texts and always put it so-called. or so-called or quotes, but unfortunately it must note that many government and media officials under the control of government or close government are not doing so, but are saying Kosovo, president of Kosovo, prime minister of Kosovo, etc. I simply urge the practice of whether it reacts or does not respond to Western officials' views. We had Stotenberg, NATO Secretary General in Belgrade last week, no one was officially responding. What is a particular problem, that government ministers are leading the controversy, is that some of their old ones are continuing their controversy on important international issues. That gives us the impression of inconclusiveness. There was, I say, a few weeks ago when it came to the statement by the culture minister about reality, and then the government's colleagues jumped, or criticized the minister, but it's much worse here. Here, I say, we leave the impression of foreign-political indifference, because some controversy, I don't want to arbitration in conflict, I end up, in the conflict of ministers, and I don't have my fans and sympathy among the ministers in the government, that we are now classifying ourselves between Mihajlović and Vulin. The point is that this does not lead to serious policy and I call on the Prime Minister to react and punish or replace one of the dissident ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45886	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45887	Question for Aleksandar Vukic and Security Coordinator Nebojsa Stefanovic, did Ana Brnabic sign the Dublin Agreement and do our security services monitor the contacts that she and her brother have with the security services of Croatia? The Dublin Agreement obliges EU states and signatories to decide on the asylum of migrants for the first time on the part of the country where migrants sought asylum and left a fingerprint. The European Court of Justice recently supported its decision, Austria and Slovenia's decisions to deport asylum seekers back to Croatia and thus supported the Dubrovnik regulation. Through the island of Lesbos in Greece, millions of migrants have passed without any registration by Greek authorities, although they are in the EU, then enter Serbia through Albania and Macedonia, and then Croatia or another route through Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia is now the first country in Dublin to register and seek asylum. More than a million and 100,000 migrants sought asylum and left a fingerprint in Serbia. When they cross our border with Croatia, their border guards hand over certificates of asylum application and a fingerprint in Serbia, which they note and keep. Serbia is not an EU member and is not bound by the Dublin regulations, but Serbia can voluntarily commit to signing the Dublin Agreement, as has already been done by Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, which are signatories of Dublin and are not in the EU. The agreement can be signed by an authorised person, which is the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister and foreign minister. The Dublin agreement is the main cause of the conflict between Serbia and Croatia, as it is Croatia's life interest to join the Dublin Agreement. If the authorised person, in particular Ana Brnabic, signs Dublin, Serbia will be in chaos, and she will flee to Croatia with her brother. We remember the "Satellite" affair when Defence Minister Davinic initialled the hotel room contract when we lost the dispute and had to pay 50m euros. Here the stakes are much higher, with one signature we get a million and 100,000 people, which we can't survive. I have asked for a more than one security assessment of Ana Brnabic, because such responsible functions cannot be brought to such functions by persons who have foreign citizenship, who are being blackmailed or who do not have a family. Is that why she was brought into this function? The responsibility is for those who have proposed it, as well as for those who voted for it in the congregation. A question for the finance minister and Prime Minister, how much money will enter Serbia's budget, and on the basis of the announced reading of the Roma and Albanians' mah, agreed by Aleksandar Vukic and Aleksandar Soros? Every reading is paid. I am curious – how much will this one be paid and who took the money, even though I know the answer? In the 1990s, when the Germans read Kosovo Albanians, for each Albanian, he paid between 15 and 22 thousand marks, depending on how to deport. So in the 1990s, we got a few billion marks in the budget on this basis and as soon as the Albanians moved to Serbia, they were returning to Germany immediately, and when the Germans realized they were paying the same Albanian three times, they decided it was cheaper to give Kosovo to the state. Also, how many of these people from the readmission have their place in the territory of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, and is this the reason for dragging these three municipalities of Serbia into negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, to declare themselves a conflict zone, and that there is no possible readmission of non-Albanians back into that environment, because such persons cannot return to conflict zones in which they are at risk? The above-mentioned Albanians fictitiously reported addresses in these municipalities and were sold Serbian documents because they were able to travel without visas with our passports. There are a number of phantom Albanians with applications in these municipalities. Question for Alexander Vukic, is the main reason for your frequent meetings, once in a month, with Alexander Soros, the uninterrupted development of a project for migrants passing through Serbia, carried out by his organisation "Welcome to Europe"? Is it according to an agreement with Soroshe on a space that covers Albania and the state of the former Yugoslavia, without Slovenia, planned to settle five to seven million migrants, and that is why Soros visits the region nonstop? Is the first center for long-term asylum accommodation made in Obrenovac, the former barracks, and does it bear a mark in the projects of KM-36? Will 4,700 asylum residents be housed there and the cost of which will be kitchen, dining room, room with furniture, bed linen and wardrobe? The question for the defence minister and Alexander Vukic, who and when did he sign the first agreement between us and NATO on 15 October 1998, which preceded Security Council Resolution 1203, since 24.10.1998? Has the agreement practically allowed NATO a smooth opportunity to spy on Kosovo's targets and prepare for the bombing? It's the predecessor of SOFA and all later disgraceous agreements with NATO. I'm asking you to deliver that agreement to me. I ask for a note from a meeting between the SRJ delegation and NATO military leadership, led by General Nauman and Klark, held in Belgrade on 25 October 1998. I also ask for a correspondence between NATO Secretary Solana and SRJ Milosevic from 15 October 1998, 28 January 1999 and answers from our government. Have we fulfilled everything that we... Can I finish my sentence? [[Disabled microphone.]] I need ten seconds. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45888	My colleague, I beg you... A colleague of Arsic's... Now you say - colleague Arsic. I am not with you in such a relationship that we can speak with each other in such a way, since you called the president of Serbia as friends, I have found it appropriate to let you talk for five minutes whatever you want, but for one second, nothing more. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45889	Thank you. Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I will ask a question concerning culture, science and art and all that is happening or not in Serbia. What has remained shocking to us in the last few years, but in the last few days, it has been over and over again that new strikes not only on common sense, not only on politeness, not only on culture, but on everything that individuals have done for our country, for our city, which serves us with pride and honor, and we as a society do not know that we do not appreciate and respect, but this government is using every opportunity to take revenge for such first ones. The director of the drama of the National Theatre Željko Hubač, without a single word of reason, was replaced, neither by Dejan Savic, who is director of the National Theatre, nor by the people to whom this institution and institution should mean anything. A man who in the last four years has returned not only the National Theatre, not only drama, but Belgrade and Serbia to the map of the region and the map of the world, a man who has won 107 prestigious awards in the last four years at various festivals, a man who is then classified in perhaps the most successful in the 150-year history of the National Theatre. Because it gives insubordinate interviews, because it points to a bad state in culture, a poor state in the budget, it points to everything that...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45890	My colleague Bozovic, please ask the question and make sure that you do not violate the Constitution of the intended jurisdiction of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45891	If you think I'm destroying the constitutional powers of local self-government by asking you the same question as the President and Minister of Culture and the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and all those who are making out of the lives of Serbian citizens one kind of reality...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45892	You can ask me a question, but a question for the Belgrade City Assembly, a colleague of Bozovic. Would you like to ask a question? (Balsa Bozovic: I ask a question, and you do not allow it. ) Comrade Bozovic, read the fine Constitution. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45893	Thank you, Chairman. It's a bit of an unusual situation right now. My first question is for the Home Secretary. I wonder how many vehicles are registered in 2017 that use people with disabilities? In fact, one tweet from one user of this social network has been extremely promoted in public these days, saying that at one gas station, he experienced discomfort when the price per liter of fuel was paid by 175 dinars, while the user who belongs to the order of diplomats paid only 75 dinars. Revolved by this knowledge, which unfortunately lies in the laws of the Republic of Serbia, we want to know how many people with disabilities use vehicles, precisely because they do not use vehicles because they represent luxury, but necessity. In Belgrade, we have a situation where they are almost inaccessible to all public transport, even if we buy low-level buses, which would allow them to move around the city more easily, the question is what kind of position they are in. If that is the situation in Belgrade, then you can imagine the situation in some smaller towns, municipalities or villages. So with a disabled person, cars and driving cars are not a luxury, but a need, and in this connection, we need an analysis of how many registered cars in Serbia are used by disabled people, to suggest one change that says they will also have the right to use and buy fuel at affordable prices. Now I'm going to a series of questions for the Minister of Labour. So one question, i.e. the first question, is – how many persons in 2017 have the right to add to someone else's help? We also ask for data for the basic and increased additions. How many people with disabilities who are estimated to have 100% physical damage? On the issue of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, I refer to Minister of Labour Djordjevic and the minister without portfolio, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. It concerns two specific situations. The first is related to a mother who is from Belgrade who suffers the bad effects of applying the last version of the law, so before it came into force in December, that is, in June of the month. It was a lady who worked as a financial director at a company and after she went on maternity leave and the absence for child care, a different person came to her place to replace her and agreed to work for a salary that is at the height of the republican minimum. Unfortunately, by applying this version of the law, she is now receiving compensation at that height, for the one applying the law and the one issuing the solutions called for her to be replaced by the person who agreed to work for the minimumer. But that's why I'm sure, and I can provide evidence that this lady, as the financial director of that firm, has worked for much greater compensation. The second question is a question of a mother from Nis that I had the opportunity to meet recently in the protest, which has the next problem, so it is a mother who is 16.5 years of employment in continuity and who, because she wants to be realized as a mother, has to go to out-of-body insemination. Which is why it is under the obligation, i.e. to use leave, sick leave, or absence from work for at least six months if this out-of-body insemination succeeds, and, God of health, it remains in a different state and is realized as a mother, these six months, therefore, regular sickness will not enter a bill concerning maternity leave or leave due to child care. And, even though she's 16.5 years old, so I repeat once again 16.5 years of tied-up internships, she's going to receive compensation that's 33% less than what she's supposed to receive. I ask both ministries to carry out a check on why this law is applied in this way and who has ordered that the provisions of this Act and the regulations adopted on July 27th be interpreted in this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45894	Thank you. I would just like to, not to mention you fellow Members of Macura, fellow Members of Parliament, to read Article 287 on the basis of which they receive the right to speak – the National MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the Chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the functions of the National Assembly, except for the session of the National Assembly. So, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People, please do not violate the powers given to us by the Constitution and, too, do not violate the rights that council members have in local self-government units, who also have their powers under which they do certain public work. The word has been made by fellow MP Daniela Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45895	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members, today I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, as well as the Ministers of Justice about a problem that is plagued by many single-parent families. As a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I was approached by a number of single mothers, single parents, because of the problems they have in relation to paying child support who are entrusted to them after breaking up the marriage community. This question deserves greater social attention, especially from the point of view of preserving the family as the basic cell of society, and thus building a healthy personality of a child who should tomorrow be a responsible and creative member of this society. The law also stipulates that even after divorce, parental law is exercised by joint and mutual custody and when a child is entrusted with one of the parents. However, it is increasingly a practice that a parent who has established a legal obligation to participate in the maintenance of a minor child entrusted to another parent, most often a mother, does not fulfil his legal obligation. Many cases are when not fulfilling this legal obligation by a single parent and a child he cares about puts into a state of social need. On the other hand, a parent who avoids paying child support rarely suffers from consequences. I'm familiar with an example where father owed over half a million dinars for child support, and at the time he was legally forced to pay for his job, so as not to carry out his legal obligation to the child. In this connection, social work centres as guardianship authorities have an obligation to take social protection measures and in these cases to protect children and single parents, to provide them with psychological and material support, to make every effort to keep the children in their biological family and to raise questions about the responsibility of parents who do not comply with the obligation to pay child support. I would like to draw attention to this problem and ask Mr. Minister – does the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs oversee this role of the Centre for Social Labour and should the centres be provided with better personnel equipment, in order to provide professionally, impartially and effectively care for single-parent families? Also, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice - are there any data on the number of pending court decisions on the payment of child support after divorce, what are the courts doing in this regard and whether temporary measures are being made? I would also ask if it is possible in our system to form a state-run alimony fund in order to prevent children and single parents from losing their lives because of the lack of responsibility of another parent. This is according to the Swedish model, and this fund could also scholarship children living with one parent. In that case, the state would assume the obligation to pay for the alimony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45896	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45897	Thank you. Fifteen days ago, I asked the foreign minister why Serbia is monitoring German politics in the Balkans? The minister answered, we said, and this is one of the few examples that the minister answers the question, meaning, mostly, the government, the president of the state, the speaker of the assembly, ignores these issues of MPs although it is their legal obligation to answer within 15 days. The minister responded and thanked them for it, however he did not answer the questions asked, he answered something that was not asked. So what I was asking is, all the world powers are colonial forces, all of them. For example, Kliot's America, which bombed us, which we won't forget, colonizes where oil is, and for them, it's a cheap workforce in Mexico. Then China just took our copper reserves and not only the TV Bor, but also the Kukara site worth over 150 billion euros. Then, the Russians took our oil, all our oil and gas sites, took NIS bud why, Germany from the Balkans is a source of cheap labour. In addition, they are looking towards Telekom, EPS, duchy countries. Germany has managed the Balkans for over ten years. Why does Serbia of all world powers follow German politics exactly? The US Democrats, when the Klins and Obama came to power, left the Balkans to Merkel as a sphere of German influence. In those ten years, the Balkans has been turning into a space of cheap labour with autocracies in power, with media cancer, with the abolition of the system's institutions, meaning the total collapse of democracy. What we have is not democracy. It's a vision of democracy. The EU Democrats, and Germany dominates the EU, are always telling us that Serbia is going in the right direction. A question for Minister Dacic, any reason for Serbia to follow exactly German politics. One of Germany's main political goals is to cement both this and this Balkans and sign a legally binding agreement between Serbia and Kosovo, and one of the most important reasons that says Serbia should do so because it has no defined borders. A question for Minister Dacic -- why are we following this policy, why are we following this legally binding agreement towards Pristina, when we know that at the end of that road, Germany wants a chair for Kosovo in the UN? That's a question he didn't answer. The second question he has not answered has been six years since Serbia signed the Brussels Agreement, he and President Vukic signed six years ago, Serbia fulfilled all the points of the agreement, Kosovo failed to meet, practically none. Why are we still talking to someone who doesn't keep what's agreed? You know, from your life, when someone doesn't meet the deal, then you interrupt the conversation until it's done. The Serb community is something that Serbs south of Ibra need, which is why the government is still talking there and why don't you adopt our proposal to freeze further negotiations until Kosovo, Pristina meet the commitments they have made, which is to form a community of Serb municipalities? The second question goes to the finance minister. The PKK is privatized. Robbery privatisation practically destroyed Serbia. The ruling majority's mouth was about this robbery privatisation, so the question is why are we continuing it now through the PKK? The PKK was sold for 105m euros. When you look at the financial reports for the previous year, the PKK in those financial reports is worth over 400m euros. Here, let me give you just a few things, an animal fund worth 20 million euros, a stock fund, a mechanism, over 10 million euros, unfinished production, let's say, corn, lucerca, over 20 million euros. The finished products of over four million euros, materials, spare parts, three million, technical facilities of 20 million, and then we come to the essence, which is 28 thousand hectares of land, of which 300 hectares of valuable building land, practically, around Pupin's bridge, is worth 200m euros. Why do we give this kind of property to a company that has nothing in Serbia, practically for 105m euros? Why are you continuing the robbery policy?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45898	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45899	Thank you, Chairman. What this bankruptcy manager says in five minutes, I think he broke his own record in the amount of nonsense he said in five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago, an answer came to my attention, specifically on October 12th, on a question asked by the so-called Parliament. Commissioner for Information of the public importance of Rodoljub Sabic, and regarding his attack and charges against Aleksandar Martinovic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, as well as his abuse of functions for daily-political purposes. The answer, if I can call it that at all, is very large, but without a fundamental answer to a very clearly asked parliamentary question. It is rich in various flat-rate and disqualifying assessments, inconclusive and inadmissible accusations, completely pointless and supply comparisons, but what is worst continues are insults and slanders at the expense of SNS representatives. We have one piece of that memo where Shabic is wondering, quote, should we assume that the trustee is something like dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, so that by performing a function in the protection of law, it seems almost impeccable, but that the function is misused by somehow and somewhere in politics. So, he compares himself to Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, and Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde are synonyms for transformation, and I am associated with the chairman, right on Shabic's transformation. He, you know, for decades was a politician, a prominent politician, exclusively involved in politics, and then somehow magically overnight, transformed himself into an independent expert. He says in that memo, that he has not been a member of the party for 15 years, i.e. That he hasn't been involved in politics for 15 years. Yeah, but that's why 20 years ago he only dealt with politics. In the government of Ante Markovic, he was still a senior official, after which he was a national MP, and vice president of the National Assembly, and the minister was even, and then one day he decided to be an expert, to be independent, and become an independent expert. I guess he was counting on us to forget his political career. Well, we won't forget. He says that Sabic, Martinovic has never been attacked anywhere. Here, I'll just have one of his numerous statements to quote. Sabic – "Martinović is a poor, lying thief, knowingly and deliberately lying and insulting, so here I am, publicly calling him a poor, lying liar, there's a reason to sue me if he dares. “ It is one of his daily numerous statements. If this isn't an attack, I don't know what a political attack is, and I could list his shameful statements by tomorrow. So there is everything in this memo, but there is no answer to the most clear question possible, and that is – Shabić, by what law do you have the right to deal with daily politics and to abuse your function? I also have a question for REM – whether TV N1 and TV Shabac, violated the Law on Electronic Media, which prescribes a ban on political advertising outside of the election campaign, because they directly transferred the party's meeting, so-called The opposition last Friday. TV Shabac, otherwise, does it regularly, when the Alliance's stands for Serbia's collapse. Why am I asking this because NUNS filed a REM application against a television that directly transmitted the address of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic? So, N1 can carry live various, various stands, then, some round tables where various journalists try, only the muds of SNS and Alexander Vukic. So N1 can, and TV Pink, can't. We had the opportunity to watch live that unfortunate Slaviš Lekic, and even more unfortunate one Nedimovic, Sejdinović, I apologize to the most unfortunate Teofil Pancic, who for hours were false and lies at the expense of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, and imagine it at the Centre for Cultural Decontamination and it all goes live on N1. And then they complain there's no media freedom. And all the time, every day alone, they spit on the Wolf, and it directly transmits the N1.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45900	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs, Dusko Tarbuk, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Aleksandra Jerkov. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. With the call of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, proposals for the completion of the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed to put on the agenda an amending and supplementing law on the transport of passengers in road transport, following an urgent procedure. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: for - 128, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on accident research, in air, rail and water transport, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 October 2018. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: for - 130, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of dangerous goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 October 2018. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: for - 130, against – no one, abstentioned – has. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 October 2018. I ask my fellow Members to plead. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2018, should be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement about this proposal. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2018, be put on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement about this proposal. I conclude the vote: for – 130, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Economic and Technical Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary in the area of infrastructure projects, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2018. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement about this proposal. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Serbian Progressive Party MP group has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 October 2018. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement about this proposal. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Goran Chabradi proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission on the identification of harmful consequences of the construction of mini hydropower plants in areas of protected natural resources, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2018. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement about this proposal. I conclude the vote: for – eight against – one with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The State's Chief Prosecutors proposed that the draft decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2018, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the education of the polling committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts and circumstances concerning the pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during the 2016 elections for MPs of the National Assembly, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law establishing the public interest and the special procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – one against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45901	Citizens know that the chairman is not holding the agenda, but he calls at random when he sees someone coming out of the O.R., so... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45902	Col. Radulovic, the right and obligation of every MP is to participate in the work of the National Assembly. So if you have suggested something to the National Assembly, then be in the O.R. until the National Assembly makes it clear. Don't complain to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45903	The president's obligation is to stick to the agenda, not to skip... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45904	We haven't adopted the agenda yet, Mr. Radulovic. I draw your attention that you follow the rules of the National Assembly. So the right and obligation of every MP is to sit in the hall when determining the agenda. Your right is political whether you will be or not, but you are using it rightly and don't transfer it to me that doesn't suit you at some point.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45905	Dear citizens, the chairman is going for a jump, so he skips the speakers and now he expects... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45906	I don't skip anybody. This isn't a groin race. Please make a statement about the agenda and the suggestions you delivered.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45907	Dear citizens, you see this is a leap. We passed a few laws. We know he's manipulating his voter lists. We know he's being manipulated by who's voting, who's voting with fake IDs, that you've got a lot of dead people on the ballots. I'm sure the citizens know when the calls for a vote arrive that you have a bunch of calls for people who don't live at the address where they've been called to vote, so we've proposed a few laws that would prevent these and these thefts in the election. Among other things, the EU supports the prospect of all these manipulations in the elections, so these few proposals can contribute never again to such thefts and such manipulations do not occur. So we're proposing practically a few simple solutions. There is the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, there is the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, there is the Law on Local Elections that would prevent such manipulations. We don't understand why the ruling majority don't want to. They're full of democracy and how we're progressing, and this simple solution, which would allow us to have no more problems on the ballots, would practically help everything they're talking about, and on the ground, they're doing the opposite. What the law allows is that all citizens can check online, as they can check where they vote today, if anyone voted for them. So, after the election's over, these lists can be posted on the site. Only one who has access to his home number can, like today, see not only which voter's seat, but also see if he voted or voted in favour of him in the previous elections. This, I think, would be one revelation for our diaspora, if they could have been nice from abroad, when they came to the site to look, to see that they actually voted, or that someone voted for them. When you have one voter list of seven million people, where you practically have more voters there than there are full-time citizens in Serbia, then it is clear that something with the election process is wrong. Well, let's do one good thing, and this law can be complemented in one normal discussion, that we can do something where never again in Serbia, there will be no doubt that there have been any manipulations with the voter lists. Citizens today think that we will not deal with this problem, not to insist, as an opposition to it. Here, these are laws that would practically bring order into this area. We call upon the ruling majority to put this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45908	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 11 against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by the act on the completion of the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. (Branka Stamenkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Colleginica Stamenković, I have seen you seek the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, you will be entitled to explain where I broke the Rules of Procedure, as soon as we determine the agenda of the session. Since the session hasn't even started, I can't break the Rules of Procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—four against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda of the session be completed, complemented by a proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from the beneficiaries of public funds, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2017. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Radulovich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45909	Here, the citizens have now seen you jump.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45910	My colleague Radulovich, I don't skip anyone. I said, this isn't a race with groins, you've got 130 or 140 MPs here, who need to determine, to make a statement about your proposals to supplement the agenda. So, fellow Radulovic, if you expect colleagues to declare your proposals for supplementing the agenda, for God's sakes sit in the hall until the agenda is established or you propose supplements and don't explain them or don't propose supplements at all. So if you expect 130 MPs to sit and you're walking and waiting for a row, forget it. We'll determine the agenda by my estimates by 19 hours, maybe 20 hours tonight. So, colleagues who have proposed the additions to the agenda will have to sit in the O.R. if they want to explain their suggestions and don't be mad at me. It's your duty, not your own order. Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45911	I don't understand, Chairman, what are you angry about? Well, it's not that big a deal. What'd you lose your nerve for? You go on the list and you skip, it's simple. So the MP can't even go to the bathroom. For example, this Law that we have proposed concerns a constitutional, or unnecessary wage reduction in the public sector, which has created a major problem for our teachers, teachers, a major problem for doctors, medical staff. We see everyone running away, doctors, nurses, all medical personnel, running away from the country. So, you practically tried to explain to the citizens, that the pension cuts were necessary, that the salary cuts were necessary to save the country from bankruptcy. Now, we discussed during the budget talks, that it's simply not true, or when we look at everything the state is throwing money at, we see that this is also against constitutional pension cuts and this reduction of wages for doctors, educational workers was completely unnecessary, in fact it just takes to keep you from wasting money. For example, citizens probably don't know, every year the state throws over a billion euros on subsidies. Over a billion euros, every year. These incompetent party personnel who are pushed into the public sector and do it by any authority, you didn't start it, but you perfected that system to detail, where they push people into the public sector, where they give them non-existent jobs, bureaucratic mostly, where they sit in offices, and in the field we don't have enough people to do that job, where if they don't come to work early in the morning, they don't have a chair to sit on it, it costs us another billion euros a year. Every year, the state of Serbia on behalf of activated guarantees, which are the loans of those incompetent directors of public enterprises they take, and then they can't return them, so the citizens of Serbia return them, every year we throw 300-400m euros. The entire savings from this reduction of salaries for educators, for our medics, are at an annual level of about 200m euros. When we compare these billions on the one hand and these millions on the other hand, it's really hypocritical to say that we saved the budget by cutting wages and pensions. So we propose with this law that this and this way of shagging, practically, our teachers, teachers, people who work in education and medical staff of our army, our police, etc., be interrupted because it is unnecessary. Bring order to the state. Reduce the partocracies. There's so much room for savings, stop taking money from Serbian citizens and stalling... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45912	I thank my colleague Radulovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, to identify the facts and circumstances related to the bankruptcy affair related to former Economy Minister Sasa Radulovic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have now seen the outpouring of the emotions of the bankruptcy director, who, after a long time, appeared in this assembly. You said he was running the race with the groin. You need to understand him. He left "Bostic", forgot to return "Bostic", as a opsum sucked out the bankruptcy manager, took votes and left, and he ran out of perspective. A bankruptcy manager who ran 14 firms at the same time, with 14 firms. He must have been very quick to skip his groin to jump out of the firm to the firm, at the same time being in the 14th firm's bankruptcy manager, as if he were now in the 14th Assembly at the same time a MP. That's impossible. Mr. Rasulović is like Hudini, the more his party or association falls apart, the faster he runs. He moved from bankruptcy to the ministry, where there was an affair after the affair. He picked up all the tickets to the firm and tried to play with his closest associates. All his associates were his advisors for the fat fee and he found the strength to tell someone else about the parasitic system. There is no greater parasite than Sasa Radulovic in a people known as "Sasa Kradulovic" from an association they call "Rodney and Del Boy companies". So, I ask that the survey board examine everything that the bankruptcy manager Saša Rasulovic did at the time of being a bankruptcy manager, but also to examine all his affairs related to fat fees and property tickets he manipulated while he was the minister against the economy. Also, to examine his property situation and his loved ones in the Intesa bank, because there is a reasonable doubt that there are hundreds of thousands of euros that he pumped out of the company where he ran the bankruptcy and which he pumped while he was the minister of the economy. That's why I understand his running. As soon as I get to talk, Mr. Radulovic gets some runner and he's scared to run over and over there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45914	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Konstantinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45915	Dear Vice-President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand, and it is not clear to the citizens of Serbia, why the Serbian Progressive Party will not fight corruption when you have talked about it so much. Unfortunately, everything remains in words and there is no move that you have made to really prevent corruption in Serbia. Citizens know where corruption is. Corruption is, for starters, in the ruling political party and coalition, and that is why we have also proposed to amend the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and introduce integrity plans into political parties. What does that mean, to make the citizens understand? This means that every political party has to predict what these are places where corruption is in the political party, to realize that the SNS cannot play the law by sharing more than one man can donate to others himself, so that you can play the law. You have tens of thousands of people who pay you donations, and that's people who live on welfare or who are unemployed, because somebody gives them money to pay in their own name, cash that they don't have. So you work directly in the political party to corrupt our society. That's why you can't pass one of these laws. That's why you won't even talk about passing one of these laws. Did you have a debate on your party bodies about how you finance tens of millions of euros in the campaign for your political party? Where'd you get that kind of cash? Why are you ashamed that people are given according to the law and their names are published when they donate you? Why are you playing the law? If we introduced integrity plans, we'd learn officials in political parties that they can't be stolen before they come to state functions. The political party is a place where political officials need to learn ethics. Gentlemen, there have been thieves in this country. There are thieves in every place in the country. These thieves come from your political party. That's why you can't vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45916	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – two, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45917	Since I have 30 legal proposals, I haven't heard you read?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45918	Proposal for a law amending the Law on Judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45919	The judiciary has been completely collapsed in Serbia. So we no longer have three independent branches of government, we don't have, as is normal in democratic countries, executive power, especially judicial power, especially legislative power, but it's practically all joined up in one, and that party power. This isn't democracy. In addition, with the full control of the media, which many societies say is the fourth branch of government, because how else can citizens distinguish between different political options for whom to vote and who not to vote for, if they do not get timely and good information about it, if there is no political dialogue, so that citizens can assess which political option actually offers the programme and has people and capacity to achieve what it proposes. What we have in Serbia, but not only in Serbia, the whole Balkans are at stake, is the practical collapse of democracy. What is particularly worrying is that this and this collapse of democracy have the full support of our EU friends, who are constantly reminding us that Serbia is going in the right direction. It would be good, as they speak that sentence, to look at what's going on in the judiciary, to see how judges are elected, to see how the whole system works and how, in fact, the parties in power, through the law that's been passed, actually choose similar judges. And there are no measures in the law to prevent this and this behavior of the government. This is not something the SNS invented, this is something that exists in Serbia for many years, but with each new year it gets worse and worse. It is very important that this judicial branch of government be independent. The court is the only place that can protect citizens from the haughtiness of the executive government. One of the fundamental functions of the courts is this, not only to resolve disputes among citizens, among legal persons, but also to protect citizens from the boast of the executive authority. The executive power, which has all the resources in its hands and which can practically make a solution to take away your rights, as we have seen in so many examples so far and that you have nothing against it. The only protection is the courts. When you make party courts, under the influence of the government, you practically abolished the state and turned it into party prey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45920	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Social Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2016. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 September 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be completed by the Military Security Agency (VBA) which, without a court decision, had been spying on political parties, union leaders and individual judges, who submitted to the National Assembly on 06 November 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcys to the Shining Vehicles “Goša” from Smederjevska Palanka, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2017. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 06 December 2016. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasa Vučković, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasa Vučković, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable period, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does National MP Natasa Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45921	It's one of the draft laws to check the humanity and civilization of people, MPs. In this proposal, I propose that the Labour Act be amended and that parents' jobs be prevented, especially mothers who have been treated with severe illnesses for a long time. Under today's Labour Act, it's possible and it's below any civilization minimum. This tells you a man who otherwise advocates a liberal economy, a free market, liberal capitalism, everything you ignorant people don't think is good, but in this liberal capitalism, it's impossible for a mother to lose her job because she's with her child being treated. It was not possible at the time of socialism, nor at the time of communism, and I'm surprised that there were so many sick people left, grew up by those sick children. Of course, each one has the right to his mistakes, to his delusions, to his ignorance, and to correct it. That's why I'm appealing to you, and first of all to the fellow Members of Parliament to think for five seconds about what they would do to the owner of the company or the director of the company who fired them because they were with their child when that child was suffering from some disease. I invite you to plead with me on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45922	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 13 against – one with abstention – no vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 01 November 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Mandates of Non-Nazi or Fascist Organisations and Associations and to prohibit the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist Symbols and Marks, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 25 October 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Action Society for Insurance "Such Insurance" Kragujevac, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 June 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 May 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45923	Mr. Vice President, for years I've been trying to talk about amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, and several times over the past few years I've been convinced that citizens don't know that actually the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media actually exists, but in the image, and in the work and feathers of one of the members of the electronic media, who chose that the election silence is a good cause and a good time to sound himself naked on the side of one party and one man. For the citizens, this illusion that they had that regulatoryly doesn't actually exist exists. I will remind all of us together, colleagues, that in the Law of Electronic Media it says that REM is an independent independent regulatory organisation that exercises public authority and given the fact that for years with your voice you do not want to talk about it here, I ask you to propose amendments to the REM Act and that this does not stand as it stands, but that it states that REM is the Information Service of Alexander Vukic. You know, when you don't have institutions, then one stranger and one man thinks he's taking over power, which is the opposite of the Constitution because one party, especially one man can't exercise power. When you do not have institutions and when REM is silent about bullying, criminalisation, abuse of a national frequency that represents a public good, although we are in digitisation, there are clear competitions, clear conditions under which everyone, whether it is a state or a private owner, must respect strictly prescribed legal conditions. There is no regulatory body that should continuously monitor whether television with national frequencies respects these conditions or not or televisions with national frequencies, especially those that are privately owned become weapons in the hands of a man with killer letters, which is an extended hand in the fight of a man and one party with not political opponents, but every one today in Serbia who dares to think, and God forbid to say something that doesn't like one stranger, one man. When a television network with a national frequency is monthly organizing, recording, installing videos that represent the invitation to the murder of one of the leaders of the opposition Oliver Ivanovic, when REM is not responding, the result is that unfortunately, this man is no longer with us. REM is not responding, but that's why Aleksandar Vucic takes over the powers of REM, so he thinks he has the right to interpret whether RTS or Public Service should be in the first annex, not in the second, so that SNS and Alexander Vukic thinks that he is threatening the Public Service to send a party army to RTS to control the regulator, or whether their representative was properly represented. When you don't have an institution, you have the authority of one man and one party, and it's quite clear, what we've been talking about, especially the MPs of the DS for years. When there is no freedom of the media, when freedom of expression is threatened and it is not a topic because in the latest reports of the European Commission it is a topic. It's a topic because it violates the right of citizens to be timely... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45924	Thank you, colleague Vidinović. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? (Yes) Here's a colleague of Ciric's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45925	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, this is one of the laws I have proposed and I propose it back a few years, and all in order to achieve a more balanced social distribution in our Republic of Serbia, as well as a more balanced regional distribution. This draft law amending the Law on corporate tax implies a simple idea that the corporate tax rate should be variable and should be stimulating to the owners of capital that should stimulate their workers, as it is certainly a satisfied worker who receives enough funds for the normal life of him and his family, is one who will provide more in his workplace. This would also prevent the grey payment or payment from that gray zone, where it is easy to pay and pay, because the highest cost is to raise profits, the profit tax is 15%, and it contributes 63% and it is clear that in such a way many employers try to save and put their extra profits in their pocket. Therefore, this bill implies that each legal person who paid the average net profit during the previous tax period from 80% to 150% of the average salary in the statistical region in which he operates retains the current rate of 15% of the profit tax, that all those who pay more than 150% of the average earnings to their workers will be stimulated and that their profit tax will be 10% by the next accounting period. All those who pay 80%, less than 80% of the average profit, will be destimulated by the fact that the profit tax for them will be 30%. I think that in this way we can increase that motivation of the owner of the capital and thus influence that in our society we really value the work, the work invested, rather than the ownership of the capital. I call on you in this regard, having, I'm sure, data on growing poverty in our country, statistics showing that 8% of the population in Serbia lives below the poverty line at this time, which means about 560,000 people, we are making solutions and we are discussing these solutions. That's why I'm asking you to support the debate on this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45926	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for the discharge of the Verica Radeta from the post of vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which a group of 60 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 30 July 2018. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Come on in, Comrade Kiriq.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45927	Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, MPs, a group of 60 MPs from different parliamentary groups and opposition and positions submitted this proposal, and on behalf of them 60 I will read you this proposal and an explanation behind which 60 MPs cared. I urge you to support the debate on this proposal and to make an adequate decision on this matter. So, the proposal for the discharge of the Faith Worke from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. So I'll read you an explanation -- an inadmissible hate speech, which violates Article 49. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prohibits the challenge of racial, national and religious hatred, by brutally insulting the victims of Srebrenica, Verica Radeta has compromised the reputation and violated the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The relativisation of crime, the revision of history and the atmosphere of hate cannot be tolerated, and even less encouraged by the country's highest political officials. This is especially true for the institution of the National Assembly, which is democratic and which represents all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because of the inadmissible speech of hate, the monstrous insults and the pain that Verica Radeta, as vice president of the National Assembly, inflicted on families of innocent victims, we seek an urgent and clear reaction from the MPs and the resolution of the Verica Radeta from the post of vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have witnessed violence in this House as well. We have seen threats against my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, even physical threats directed by Aleksandri Jerkov and Tomislav Zigmanov, I call on you to stand in the way of hate speech, violence and thus prevent this kind of violence from pouring out on the streets of the Republic of Serbia. One more call to discuss this in parliament, which we will be able to do if you support this initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45928	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – nine, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Marjanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 April 2018. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Veroljub Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the winding-up procedure "Such Insurance", which he submitted to the National Assembly on 2 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 July 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 31 MPs on 13 April 2017. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Radulovich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45929	And we jumped you, the chairman, we jumped. Anyway, you're reading this in a hurry, so I didn't hear what the agenda was.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45930	Comrade Radulovich, I've been very clear, and next time be in the O.R., just like me, so you'll hear nicely. Comrade Radulovic, before I give you my word again, let me inform you and all the other fellow Members of the people. According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will work without a break, so I ask fellow Members of the People's Parliament to be present in the hall and to participate in the agenda of the National Assembly. Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45931	The chairman won't read, as he mumbles like this in a hurry, flies over, and even citizens can't hear what the agenda is, the Assembly president's resolution, because he practically violates the Rules of Procedure, along with his vice presidents, especially with Mr Arsic. Here, we played a little bit here in the Assembly, so I walked out the door just to see if they'd call me as soon as I got out. And, of course, he called me. So, this is truly unworthy of the National Assembly and this practice was introduced by Maja Gojkovic, who also allows their vice presidents to humiliate the MPs in this way and to play with the rules. Let's say, one of the rules that stands in the Rules of Procedure when someone logs in to supplement the agenda is that there's one order in which it's read, right? This is about jumping, or playing children's games. The key things that Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic is actually doing in this assembly is allowing various MPs to insult other MPs. The best example is Mr. Marijan Risticevic, who cannot miss one announcement not to break the Rules of Procedure, insult other MPs and practically make the Assembly a place to discuss everything except those things that are important to the citizens of Serbia. Citizens probably don't know, the parliamentary issues, it stands in the Rules of Procedure, refer to the Government, ministers, the President of the Republic, all the republican officials, and this is one opportunity to ask on your behalf, on behalf of the citizens, these institutions, ministers, governments, etc. There is a obligation in the Rules of Procedure that within 15 days they must reply in writing to any such request. And to all these demands that we have sent them so far, let's say, the President of the Assembly, who should worry about respecting the Rules of Procedure, has never answered 25 different questions. She also spoke of herself proposing a session to discuss her shift. All Serbian citizens heard that. She said she'd make an appointment and, of course, she didn't schedule it. It's been over a year since. These things just shouldn't happen. Here we need to discuss things that are important for all citizens of Serbia, to hear both the voice of the position and the opposition, in line with how many votes they won in the elections, to have a civilised and cultural debate on things that are in the interest of Serbian citizens. Not to be offended, not to be called thieves, punks, and thus communicate in the congregation. It is the responsibility of the President of the Assembly to introduce order into the Assembly. Because of all these things, we suggested that Maja Gojkovic be resolved as unworthy to lead the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45932	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Capital Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45933	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I hope your nervousness this time doesn't affect whether or not I'm going to speak for the rest of the day. Thank you. So I suggested the Capital Act to change in those years that aren't electoral. It is not even an election year for the city of Belgrade, so here I call on you to change the law on the capital and to allow Belgrade's citizens to directly elect the mayor of Belgrade, to know who they vote for, to know that a certain person will have a political impact on whether their quality of life will be better or worse, but that they can decide for themselves, not whether the president of the Republic of Serbia decides on their behalf. So it is very important that we allow people in a joint in the country to choose their own leaders who trust their municipalities to run their cities, eventually lead their capitals in Serbia, the city of Belgrade. This morning I just asked this time a question that Mr. Arsic never allowed me to finish, the question was just about the way the city of Belgrade is being run today, since we do not have an orderly system that implies that a certain individual is bearing his responsibility. We have a deputy mayor, Mr. Vesic, who plays mayor of Belgrade, we have a Belgrade mayor acting as a SNS official, we have a dozen other directors who are not responsible for what they are doing in the city of Belgrade. For this reason, it is very important that we have a responsible city administration headed by the mayor elected directly by Belgrade's citizens. We had a situation a few days ago that simple individual directors, it's a national theater of the National Theatre, without a single word being replaced, and for example. Belgrade mayor or deputy mayor, acting mayor, Mr. Vesic does not say a single word about it. People who, like Hubač, have owed us all in this room, and Mr Arsic, who laughs, and I don't know exactly whether he knows where the national theatre is, simply, it turns out that some people who have played a certain role in this society, certain results in this society, are absolutely appreciated by no one, just because they don't know who's running the system, they don't know who's running the city of Belgrade, they don't know who's deciding in this country, and on the other hand, the elections are a year away.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45934	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2017. Does MP Dusan Pavlovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2017. Does MP Dusan Pavlovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a motion for the resolution of Veroljub Arsic from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 31 MPs on 13 April 2017. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45935	And, again, we did the same thing, colleague Arsic, and this is exactly why you should be relieved. Since the chairman quickly read the agenda point that citizens know, the proposal is for Mr. Arsic to be removed from the post of vice-president of the Assembly, because it undermines the dignity of the National Assembly. Here, for the second time in a row, I had to get out of the O.R., stand outside the door and wait for Mr. Arsic to read my name, he, thinking I wouldn't be in the O.R. to pass this part of the agenda. Now, this is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. These things shouldn't happen in the Assembly. This should be a serious home, where we are seriously talking about government proposals, opposition proposals, cross arguments and talk about what is good for Serbian citizens. Apparently, the ruling majority has neither the desire nor the intention to talk about these things, but wants to quickly push everything under the carpet, practically, just talking about the government's praises, insulting the opposition, calling them the worst names, and the chairman of that time is not responding. Here, today you could see when Mr. Risticevic, here stood up and talked about me, calling me the ugliest names, Mr. Arsic was sitting, listening, pretending like he couldn't hear, looking the other way and allowing this insult. Then you saw that on this proposal Mr. Risticevic, to examine what I was doing, he didn't vote alone, we all voted here from the DJB parliamentary group, voted and the other opposition, come on, after so many years to really examine whether I was doing anything. What I did, I worked for the police and the D.A.'s office, we chased the thieves, the ones who robbed the country, and I'm proud of it. So it is very important to respect the Rules of Procedure, and this Rules of Procedure, which is today, which is ill written, which is practically written for power, was brought before 2012, before the fall of power of the then government, and remained until today. The ruling majority had a lot of opportunities to change it, didn't change it because it suits them. It suits the authorities, and it's not respected. Replicas to MPs are not allowed, insults are allowed, all things that in a civilized world, among civilized people, should not be possible. Like today, calling MPs to jump means that procedures are not respected, the rules are not respected, so if the government doesn't do so, and the MPs are doing so apparently all citizens, so how can we expect citizens to respect the law? Because of this, we think that Mr. Arsic is not worthy of being vice president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45936	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a Declaration on the Protection of Serbian Language, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic, and Dragan Vesović on 13 October 2017. Here you go, colleague Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45937	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language is a declaration that I have already suggested several times, and I don't think anyone in this house should wait for the bell, but should vote by conscience. 15 days ago, the president of the state and the president of the largest political party in our country, Mr. Vukic, spoke about protecting the Serbian language. Otherwise, I look forward to having him and I share an opinion in something, but I will certainly remain sad when I realize that you who are members of that party will not support your president, because, for God's sake, this declaration is proposed by someone from the opposition. Since that is so, please, here, I am prepared to propose at some next session someone from the ruling majority, or a similar declaration, and I promise you that I will vote on my conscience for what is necessary for our people. It is not a questionable story that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Statute and the Rules of Procedure of this House, say that the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter are what we should use, but it is an indisputable and life-threatening fact that when we step out of this building and look at the headlines on objects, advertisements, what we do, what we write, we see that the Cyrillic letter, and therefore the Serbian language, in the country of Serbia, where the majority Serbian people, are neglected for some reason. This kind of behavior has led us so far that what we have as the original Serbian language with two orders, both of the Ekva and of the Ichava, is being taken away from us, that new languages are being invented in the surrounding countries, despite the fact that all the world's leading linguists are saying that they are the same languages, that they are Serbian. I really don't know, as long as we sit in this highest home, our only country, want to humiliate ourselves, and let's not be surprised when anyone whose history is shorter than the history of the tarab around my property in the Hoods, like Mr. Scott, is giving lessons, because we're not going to protect ourselves, because, for God's sake, this or similar declaration, or those who will come after this, suggested someone from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45938	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Konstantinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45939	Dear Vice-President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Social Democratic Party proposed this law three or four years ago in the past term. We propose this law and this entire mandate. We suggest we discuss whether Serbian citizens can pay the property tax that you increased in 2013, as soon as you came to power someone and 200%, someone and 300%. In one day you decided to raise the tax 300%, in another day to introduce electricity excise, in the third day to reduce pensions 25%, 22%, 10%, as to whom, to reduce wages 10%. So by your decision, you can take away the citizens' money and raise their taxes the way you feel you need it. How can citizens be protected from irresponsible authority? Why don't you want to discuss a law that should allow for a predictable tax increase, that taxes can't rise as you think of it, but that they can go to a certain level, so that citizens can plan something. Why are you against it being a luxury if a four-member family lives in an 80-square apartment? You're punishing a four-member family living in an 80-square apartment so they can't pay taxes on that apartment? Gentlemen, it's not a luxury, it's constitutional law. People have the right to live in their apartments. We're not talking about rich people with three, four or five apartments. Of course they should pay taxes. We're talking about a four-member family living in an 80-square apartment who can't pay taxes. What do you want? That everyone's selling apartments? Who do they sell them to? To those who have earned money from 2012 until today. We understand that there are too many of them, but there are not enough of them to buy all those people's apartments that can't pay their taxes. In the city of Belgrade, you said ahead of the elections -- we'll raise the tax 2%, and then you said in the election campaign -- well, we won't make this decision right. What can the citizens of Belgrade expect when the 2019 budget is adopted, that you will raise 2% or 22% or 35%? How long does it take you to pay for the lighting you set up in September and stand for New Year's lighting for six months? As much as you need money for the tree that you pay 83,000 euros, you will raise taxes to the citizens on the property. We want to limit it. Gather your courage to discuss this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45940	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Dual Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 November 2017. Does MP Branka Stamenkovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who submitted their lives to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Here you go, colleague Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45941	Thank you. On March 13, there was a tragedy in which seven people died in an accident that brought down a helicopter. From where the helicopter was on a rescue mission and what happened, there were two investigative commissions at the Department of Defense. The prosecution said it doesn't see the basis for criminal charges and all we have as a result are disciplinary measures against two generals. When you look away, they don't seem quite justified because they did at all, because the Defence Act allows them to say in subordination – I won't, if it's obvious that the minister or anyone in the subordination is making a completely wrong decision, so that the two generals would have a disciplinary and that they said we wouldn't, because it wasn't done as protocol and subordination requires. If they'd done what they did, accepted an oral order, the outcome would have been different. At first, if they said no, seven people might be alive. My desire for the National Assembly to discuss this is just so much on the trail to determine the facts of two missing answers to two important questions - from which Defence Minister Bratislav Gasic received information on the basis of which he estimated it was necessary to issue an oral order on the rescue mission "Helicopter" and who changed the flight plan when the helicopter returned from the site of the accident where a baby was just born? Those two answers are not in any of the two investigations. The two answers also depended on whether the prosecution will act and raise criminal charges, and this Assembly has the task of finding answers to these two questions not because we can bring back alive and not because I think that we are in advance sharing the view that this is a matter of rule of law and our jurisdiction, but because of the arrogance of someone who thinks that it is in place in public affairs to perform certain functions, that it is such that it has the power to decide human lives irresponsiblely because it has good intentions. We also heard that after the tragedy of the helicopter happened, that everyone had good intentions, but, well, seven people aren't alive after all. Of the ethics of good intentions, there is only evil, and the role of this assembly is that with the education of the polling committee, which would find answers to all the questions concerning the rescue mission "Helicopter", one definitely begins the serious building of ethics responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45942	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the Budgetary System, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Aleksandar Stevanović and Sasa Radulovic on 8 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the Bill on the Completion of the Criminal Code, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Aleksandar Stevanović and Sasa Radulovic on 8 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2017. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45943	My colleagues and colleagues, this December, will be three years, as I propose to amend the Budgetary System Act, which primarily refers to something called, so-called. temporary, so-called A ban on employment. Very short. For the past three years, I have tried to make through the ten areas that I thought were the greatest victims and the greatest hostage of this perilous, wrong, not fair, discriminatory measures, which have become the ideology of this government, that no one in this country has room except for members and supporters of the SNS. Let me strip you of just a few things. So this country needs justice, the rule of law, the system and the strong institutions, which will tell citizens a very simple thing, which is that there is certainty, that there is legal certainty and that there is equality, equality of each of us. When you say, when the state with its budget, with its fiscal consolidation measures, which has become the most important thing for this country, and the citizens suffer, they suffer the rights not only of those who are forbidden to work naturally, they have honestly chosen to school, acquire some knowledge and to deal with those areas that are naturally directed to the state. These are the people who decided to stay in this country despite everything. These are the people who have decided to stay in this country to work in the fields of science, culture, justice, to work in the prosecution, to work in all those areas where the government of the Republic of Serbia says there is no room for you; for example, there is room for a convicted extreme rightist, Misu Vacic. It's a government that tells a young scientist, a young ballerina at the National Theatre, which is banned from employment -- there's no room for you, but there's room for party SNS officials. It's a government that tells professors at Math High, which we're all proud and proud of, and we don't have that right, because it's their success and the success of their parents and their teachers, they can't hire for the ban on hiring the best professor who would work there, but a technological surplus from other schools. There is no place for them, and there is room for Tomislav Nikolic, the former president of the Republic of Serbia, who is now running some office again, which no one can say alive, what it is. This government has repeatedly and systematically, for years, humiliated and punished every citizen and citizen who is not a member or sympathiser of the SNS. This measure, which is devastating and wrong and discriminatory, does not only violate the rights of those people who cannot be employed for it, but the rights of all other citizens, because they do not function systems and because their rights and their justice suffers. We will enter December in two months, and we will discuss the budget again, and I am convinced that, unfortunately, after six years, instead of apologizing to the citizens, instead of correcting what has been done by chaos in the systems, we will have an extension of the so-called temporary, so-called employment ban.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45944	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15; no one – none – with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 May 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Zdravko Stankovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—four against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 24 October 2016. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Alexich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45945	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted this bill because in 2016, by adopting the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, you have done great harm to citizens who live across Serbia by cities and municipalities and have shown that in 2012 you swore in EU principles that you are doing everything, absolutely contrary to these European values. You did not mind taking at one time 4.8 billion dinars belonging to or belonging to towns and municipalities in Serbia and centralised the country further, so that Serbia is now the most centralised states in Europe. Of course, it is your policy, but this policy has very big consequences for citizens in Serbia. Today, only 11.6% of the funds collected in Serbia are transferred to local self-government, and the rest goes to the central register. So in 2012, when you came to power that percentage was over 17%. So we go to reverse instead of going ahead, and in EU countries, the average is 32%, and in some Scandinavia countries up to 50% of the funds collected in one country are transferred to the authority of local self-government units. That is why it would be clear to the citizens for the reason that all money should be available to Aleksandra Vukic, Ana Brnabić and Mr Sinisa Mali, and then they decide what to do with the money of all of us, why to do it by the institutions, why to do it by law when it is more comfortable for them to do it themselves. They work alone because these representatives in parliament of the pink coalition vote in favour of these radical laws. Then you should not be surprised if the Vranj Hole is filled with gravel, while a Belgrade gondola is being built in Belgrade or because there is no healthy drinking water in Zrenjanin, and it is being built here "Belgrade on water". Citizens should not be surprised that the majority of local self-governments around Serbia are being shut down at 12pm by street lighting, and New Year's lighting is being set up here in August. This is all because MPs of the pink coalition are voting for these laws, and I now call on all Serbian citizens to see if any of them will vote for the draft law on the financing of local self-government units in Serbia to be placed on the agenda and to return to the municipalities of those 80% of the funds that belonged to them before you abolished the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45946	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Bill on the Rights of Fighters and Families of the Dead and Missing Fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Here you go, colleague Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45947	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm talking about something that's not a party category, and it's also not a social category. Fighters, war invalids, families of dead fighters are a national and constitutional category. Gentlemen, for 27 years, you've been waiting for the law on fighters. In all previous laws on military and wartime people, fighters are mentioned in the title, but only in the title and in any other member. This law written by fighters would cost the state about six and a half billion dinars a year for the 400,000 people who defended this country from the 1990s to 1999. When we wrote this law, we were just taking care of the state's material possibilities. It is difficult, gentlemen, to answer the question of the fighters – whether the state they have defended has no means to create a national recognition, a memorial medal and one A-4 paper, a monument for every fighter, that they can, as they say, place it proudly on the wall because they were among those who defended their country. Why are you denying them, gentlemen? Here, too, I have a draft law on martial law, which was submitted in August by the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat Affairs. Gentlemen, if you take that draft, you'll conclude as much as I do, that there's never been anything worse written and that all rights of war people with disabilities have been violated, although in this same room not long ago, it's said that no rights of wartime disabled people will be touched. Even, it is unthinkable for me to say in this law, Article 4, that those who fought in the last war in 1999 in Kosovo and Metohija, from 23 April 1998 to 24 March 1999, were not considered fighters, and 530 of them, gentlemen, gave their lives... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45948	Thank you, colleague Delic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Radojićic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Slavisa Ristic, 15 September 2017. Does MP Zoran Radojićic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP LJupka Mihajlovska, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs LJupka Mihajlovska and Tatjana Macura on 13 February 2018. Does the People's Messenger Ljupka Mihailovska want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vladimir Djuric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the name of pension cuts under the Law on the provisional way of determining pension payments submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Vladimir Đurić, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Bozic, 21 September 2018. Does MP Vladimir Djuric want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Declaration of the National Assembly on the Protection of Serbs in Dispersion and the region, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlić and Dragan Vesović, 14 September 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45949	Thank you, Chairman. For Serbia's Dvori movement, and I believe every conscious citizen of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian diaspora is also extremely important and one of the largest of our national resources. We believe that a declaration that would limit only the question of the protection of the rights to the language, letter and cultural identity of Serbs, which would, in turn, cross the rights of the Serbian people to statehood, i.e. constitutionality and political and territorial self-organisation in those countries where Serbs are indigenous and state-owned people, would actually degrade Serbs into a minority issue. Here, above all, I think of Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and part of Macedonia, so-called Old Serbia. Taking into account the fact that out of 12 million Serbs, as far as we live in the world, five million live outside Serbia, that a large number of our compatriots, after the collapse of the SFRY against their will, have remained outside Serbia, emigrated and temporarily left their country of origin, and that the Republic of Serbia has been weakened in demographic, economic and other terms, also recognising that Serbs in the dispersion and region provide enormous intellectual, financial and moral assistance to the state institutions of Serbia, which it, we know, does not respond to, and that all these phenomena are being kept silent in the countries of the region again, are being kept silent in the EU and in the state bodies of our neighbouring countries, we have proposed that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the daily basis of the discussions which would be introduced. What we would firstly have to ensure is that the state of Serbia and its institutions, in line with the obligations arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, conclude bilateral agreements with all countries where Serbs live today, insist on the protection of the personal and collective rights of our countrymen, in accordance with international legal acts. Serbia's state institutions are obliged to encourage, finance and otherwise... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45950	Thank you, colleague Janjušević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the killing and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? He's not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Jovan Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2018. Does MP Jovan Jovanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, the president of the Serbian-democracy-justice Civil Initiative, which took place in Kosovo Mitrovica on 16 January 2018, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinović and Slavisa Ristic on 5 March 2018. Does MP Gjorge Vukadinovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45951	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These supplemental proposals, of course, are our image and opportunity, individual and government and positions and opposition, but I would like this proposal and this initiative to be taken, as far as possible, to the most honest and serious and well-intentioned. So, it's not about any political score at all, and especially not on one accident, one tragedy, I would say, not only to the family and individual Mr Oliver Ivanovic and his family, but actually to our Serbian, joint, regardless of who was on what part of the political spectrum. Today, if I'm not mistaken, it's nine months since Oliver Ivanovic was killed. The masculine murder, the cowardly murder of a man who was spotted, respected and respected and enjoyed the respect of all the people who knew him. So, regardless of his political views, regardless of what we used to be able to get along at some point or disagree with his opinion, but it's about a man who was respected both literally by everyone and his opponents and even by enemies. That's why the act, as I said, is cowardly, shameful, no matter who fired, who ordered that bullet, or the ruff that broke his life. He, as a man, as a Serb, as someone who has made an immeasurable contribution to the protection of Serbs in KIM, particularly north of Ibra, who prevented, among others, 1999 and several times later, the incursion of Albanians into northern Kosovo and northern Mitrovica, has experienced such fate, and now we and our judicial authorities, regardless of our partially bound hands, are acting, I fear, as Pontius Pilate, speaking in the first face of the crowd, although it is clear whose primary responsibility is here. Let's not make excuses for not being able to fully examine the circumstances, since it's Kim. Of course we know that the range of our institutions, especially after the Brussels Agreement, is very low on KIM, including North KiM. We also know who is responsible, but what little potential and security and information and police that we have and what little authority we can still use should be used to find out the truth about Oliver Ivanovic's murder. On the side that the leading people of this country, including the president, swore they would do anything within 15 days to find that killer. I'm asking you to support this proposal, all of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45952	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Dusan Pavlovic and Saša Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 22 June 2017. Does MP Dusan Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Dusan Pavlovic, Ratko Jankov and Jasmina Nikolic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 23 November 2017. Does MP Dusan Pavlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ana Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Does MP Ana Stevanovic want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45953	Thank you, Chairman. Speaking of public media services, I have submitted such a proposal to supplement and amend laws that could further affect the professionalisation of the public media service. As citizens probably know, public media service is the service of all citizens and serves exclusively to inform citizens objectively, truthfully and in good time. The kind of public service we have today serves exclusively for the manipulation of citizens. It's illegal, it's illegal and citizens are only deceived by watching a public service like this. In my proposal for amending and supplementing the law, I proposed further professionalisation of employees, and I paid special attention to future directors of public service. In my draft law, I pointed out that it is necessary for the Director of Public Service to have many more years of work experience in the profession than there is, much more professional experience, and I assumed every ban on political action. In my proposal, I wrote that no director of public service can be a member of any political party at least five years before the stage of office. I deeply believe that the adoption of such a legal solution would lead to the professionalisation of public service, to improve the media image in our country and to improve the democratic situation in the country in which we live. I call on my colleagues, if they really want us to have a public service that is in the service of the citizens, and not in the service of the political party, to support this proposal of mine. In my bill of law, I assumed a proven situation as we do, which is illegal political and financial influences on media representatives, especially on public service. The potential adoption of my legal solution prevents any further political, or economic influence on the media through advertising. I repeat once again, if we really care about having the public service that we deserve, which is in the service of all citizens, and not certain political parties, I call on my colleagues to support this proposal and to vote for this amendment and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45954	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2017. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here's a colleague of Bozovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45955	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are witnessing re-promised promises by who knows for what time in the last six years that security members, those who care about our country's defences, those who are members of the MUP will be built apartments under such conditions that those with these salaries can also buy them. What is symptomatic is that until now, each time this promise was made immediately before the opening of some new elections. I don't know if that promise was made again, but in any case, these are people who are promised for the sixth time in these six years that each of the following will start building cheap apartments, subsidized prices for those who work in the service for five, ten, or fifteen years or more. What's very embarrassing is that members of the Republic of Serbia's military not only have small incomes, in this case, but also have no basic equipment to work with, and we have referred to that several times so far. It is very important that people who care about the safety of the country have at least the equipment they can function with and work with every day. Not only are the diaries abolished, not only are the salaries cut, but they do not have the basic means to work, and when it comes to housing, it is at least necessary that the one who promises may, from the seventh time, keep that promise, so that indeed, the members of the Army, the police, are provided apartments at subsidized prices. How someone who lives and works for over 20 years in a city or in a municipality cannot provide and resolve a housing issue and it is a disgrace to this country. Many money has been spent on which projects are pointless, on projects that have been pushing money into private investors' pockets, and this basic issue for security forces in Serbia has not been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45956	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – ten, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city known as Savamal on 25 April 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 6 June 2016. Here's a colleague of Djurisic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45957	Thank you, Chairman. I only ask you to make sure that according to the Rules of Procedure, you make sure that the services take out the cards of those MPs who, contrary to Article 128, left the hall where the session takes place and left their card in the MP's unit. It is your obligation whether the congregation works or does not work on the agenda. We have submitted a proposal on the establishment of a survey committee on demolition in Savamalaj on June 6th 2016 and several times already, for a dozen times, we have left the Assembly with the opportunity to put this item on the agenda of the session in order to come to a response that citizens of Serbia have been unable to obtain for two and a half years from the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia – who were the people who were under masks during the night to destroy private facilities that were depriving citizens of Serbia, who found themselves in that place, freedom? Who are the employers of all this action and who will be responsible for doing or not doing all this time? Unfortunately, there's no answer. As I said, there was only one victim, only one culprit has been found so far, and that's a police officer who was on duty that night in a service that responded to a call from the public and who is not the job of a police unit to respond and to come to the scene. All this time we've seen that some truth about what was going on that night, who were those people, who were the employers and what they were doing there knows. It's the former Prime Minister and President of the Republic today who was all thrilled to say that he would have come to tear it down if he could, if all the idiots from the top of the city were doing it because they were doing it at night and under masks. I am interested – did he respond to all statements by acting prosecutor, if they were able at all to make the institutions which the prosecution was responsible, did the General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and was the President of the Republic heard? We will, of course, continue to ask that this topic be found on the agenda of the Assembly, and I remind you that I have asked you to respect Article 128. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45958	I ask the service of the National Assembly to exclude the cards that have been inserted, and there are no MPs present from the system. I'm putting on a motion to supplement the agenda. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Nogo, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the call of presidential elections until the day of publication of the provisional election results at 99.99% of the polling stations, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesovic on 20 April 2017. Here you go, buddy Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45959	I propose that a survey committee be educated to examine in general how elections in Serbia operate, because the question is whether Serbia's elections ever decided who will come and will come to power. Since 2000 there has certainly been one system, and in 2000 it has also been in power... Please, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45960	Excuse me, colleague Nogo. I'll give you your time back. Col. Stamenković, you are not in charge of cards but of the service of the National Assembly, and it is clearly specified in the Rules of Procedure that if someone unauthorized takes the card of another MP so that it can be excluded from the work of the session. So I'm asking you to stay out of that part of the business that's not yours. Here you go, buddy Nogo. Just ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45961	I thank the chairman. We have proposed that a survey committee be formed now that we believe that in all elections in previous years since 2000 there have been a number of irregularities and that very few elections have been the way of coming to power in Serbia. So as the National Assembly and as representatives of all parliamentary groups, we would have the opportunity to examine the many things that both in this National Assembly and in the public were the sixth subject of controversy – what is the state of the electoral list, how many people really go to elections and votes, if there are other machinations. I will remind you, from 2000 to 2000, that in 2000 elections are not ended by election will, but by ousting citizens from the KIM out of the overall election result. Yes, in 2004, when Kostunica came to power, he was only allowed to be surrounded by people under Western control. Yes, in 2012, when Boris Tadic taught authority to Tomislav Nikolic and SNS, that this was preceded by a congratulations at 17 or 16 hours from Brussels. So there are numerous controversys concerning the Serbian elections. We have one million to a million and a half people, about a million and a half more people listed in the voter list and each government has up to 900 thousand possibilities of manipulation. Here, today I mentioned an example of a reading mission where when a state sends you a list of people who need to return on a readmission, at this point we have agreed to read the mission of some 250,000 citizens, a wave of Roma and Albanians, which should be returned to us from Western Europe. We know exactly where those faces are, we know which addresses they're registered to, and we know they won't vote in those elections. So, any government can transfer them to the polling list where it answers them, send other people with ID cards to vote on their name, it's later destroyed and nothing. So that's where we find the situation, let's say, that's often the case in Belgrade, that we have in the boxes, that citizens report a large number of people who have been reported on the polling list, and they've never lived there, they've never voted there. A survey committee that would examine all these facts in detail could help, firstly, to address the state of choice from the voter lists through the conditions governing media representation, to the financing of political parties and the very act of voting. The ruling majority would have had a majority on that polling board, and I don't see why you don't have the courage to finally, because you yourself have often pointed out and you like to respect the various arguments that concern the election. Here's a chance to clear it up and get it out. How do elections work, who is ruling on the basis of elections, and are the elections of farces for Serbian citizens, while changing authorities in the Republic of Serbia in another way?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45962	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Finalizing vote: for... Now, because of the problem with the electronic system, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] We'll continue with further work. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Here's a colleague of Ciric's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45964	I just want you to repeat what you read, what bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45965	Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45966	I also spoke in previous proposals about the objective of these draft laws, and this is primarily a more balanced social distribution in Serbia and a more balanced regional and local distribution. A colleague, Alexic, spoke about why these laws are important and why we are trying in the simplest possible way to correct a lot of irregularities in this regard. Since 2012, laws have been passed that take up a large part of the funds to local self-government. It's estimated about five billion dinars so far. You've seen the structure and the way it's distributed between the central and local budget, about 11% for local and about 89% for the central budget, almost nine times higher. This bill implies a solution that should be dealt with in a relatively simple way, which is that part of the income, which belongs to units of local self-government, which is collected from the income tax and which is paid towards the residence of the employee, is directed in this regard by a legal solution in relation to local public enterprises, but also in relation to central public enterprises. We need to redistribute them so they belong to all local self-government. So, simplistically, employed in the MUP, employed in Serbia's Elektroprivred, employed in the military, provided services and financed by all Serbian citizens, but the taxpayers are mostly only in the largest cities where they work and where they receive their profits. So these incomes at an annual level of about 300m euros in profit tax and with a simple distribution, in this proposal, are meant to be distributed proportionally to the population. Three hundred million were divided into seven million euros per capita, which means that for ten thousand people in a smaller town, a town in Serbia, there would be more income of 430,000 euros per year to solve social, health and many other education problems. So I urge you to vote, but in order to know how we're going to vote, I demand that the quorum be determined to carry out a proper count of support for this bill of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45967	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. (Balsa Bozovic: Kvorum! Wow, 123! ) And now that I see doubts being expressed in the electronic system, I sincerely express it, I ask that the quorum be determined by the count of the MPs. I'm asking the service to come in. The opposition's emissaries are out of the O.R. I find that the quorum is established, that 132 MPs are present in the hall. We'll continue with further work. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic of the National Assembly, which a group of 32 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. (Maya Vidinovic: The electronic system is not working, no vote can be made.) ) (Balsa Bozovic: You cannot vote. ) I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all relevant facts and circumstances that preceded and led to a decision on the extradition of a Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin to Cevdet Ajaza Turkey, as well as the determination of the responsibility of all the authorities in this case, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Vidinović. (Jasmina Obradovic: She is not here. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45968	If you think we're in the way of any of the dirty throws we're experiencing right now, believe me, you're wrong about who you're talking to. Mr Arsic, I will now explain the proposal of the polling committee and then demand, given the fact that you told the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that the electronic system is not working, then I ask you to determine, in the same way that you have just established that there is a quorum, how many MPs, or MPs, voted to put on the agenda of the polling committee. If you don't do something like that, but at this point, the electronic voting system is working, you will confirm to the citizens of Serbia and to all that you have lied again, facelessly, for a change. I'm explaining and I'm convinced that by raising your hands and the same way we've established that there's a quorum, it means counting each and every one of you, because it's been established that the electronic system is not working. I trust you. So, the electronic system doesn't work, get ready, MPs, to be here until the day after tomorrow, because for each proposal, you will vote individually. That's what I demand, that's what I'm entitled to, and you've confirmed that that's how it works. So here's a brief explanation, this is the polling committee I've been looking for for a year and a half since President Aleksandar Vukic was elected president of Serbia. In the day of the president's inauguration outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, journalists and journalists photographers were brutally physically attacked and prevented from doing their job. After that, I asked for a survey board to be formed, it is quite unusual that the majority would not vote for such a thing, because on that day, when journalists and journalists were physically attacked, photojournalists were sent a message that journalists were legitimate targets. And not only the message, but the message has been sent as to what the power of Alexander Vukic, at this point as president of the Republic of Serbia, which we are witnesses, unfortunately, and all these days to the enemies of the state, to someone who threatens the security of the Republic of Serbia, declares anyone who dares to think freely. We see that journalists and journalists today are declaring themselves public enemies, and not from any of the SNS MPs, from the BIA chiefs. They only follow the message that was sent on the day of the president's inauguration, when it is impunity and when it is allowed to physically attack journalists and journalists, then, of course, it is impunity and fully supported and the SNS policies agree that they are declaring themselves enemies of the state. I believe this was sufficient argument. I now ask that by calling, in the way that the quorum was established just now, we determine how many MPs and MPs support the talk in the Serbian Parliament and determine the fact of the circumstances that led to the brutally and physically attacked journalists. My colleagues, I'm counting on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45969	I put this proposal to the vote on the completion of the agenda. (Maya Vidinovic: Who is in favour, raise your hand.) ) I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, (Maya Vidinovic: You said that the electronic system does not work. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Balsa Bozovic: I raised my hand, Mr Arsic. ( b) Fellow MPs, do not be so nervous. Don't be so nervous, here, I've been sitting here for four hours without interruption, I haven't lost my temper, and you'll have to learn to be patient. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former rural secretary for sport and youth Marinika Tepic and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, it is obvious that the alliance of thieves, frauds and Latvians plus one bankruptcy manager today has no coordinator. Bosic left, forgot to come back, and I'm asking you to calm this beast, someone seems to have shaken the cage, I don't know what's going on, but I'd like you to calm it down. So this is where Sasa Radulovic talked about dignity, Sasa Radulovic who made several parties, Marinika Tepic only changed four parties in the past three months. My fellow citizens, now you see who led the country, no wonder it failed. So they ruined it, destroyed it by various thieves, from bankruptcy managers to the party of the former regime. It was a joint criminal enterprise. Today they try various, false Vlasi, fly out, fly in here, some physical activities, MPs who work for the same salary, do obstructions, I ask to check how much Sasa Radulovic was in this Assembly, with guitar and no guitar, and how small my smallness was. So, those who very rarely come to this Assembly, who have the same salaries as I do, those whose parties receive considerable money from the state register, so they are now obstructing this parliament. Well, let's say, say, Sasa Radulovic, to his MPs, such as Stamenkovic, who here unauthorizedly pulls other people's cards, is paying her 800,000 dinars at the company's expense. The companies are very strangely called, so I'm going to try to find out, like, here's what physical activity is going on. So, on the accounts of these companies, owned by Macura, Mrs Nikolic, who no longer comes, only for the click they got 800 thousand dinars. So, Sasa Radulovic, who spoke about the parasitic system, the partocrat system, which, while serving as minister, was, say, Ivan Ninic, a member of his party, Dusan Pavlovic, a pornoman, Miroslav Milenovic, Aleksandr Stevanovic, his godfather and right-hand man, who left him, with a salary of 113 to 120 thousand dinars. So, people like that talk about the parasitic and the part-departmental system, people like that today are disrupting the work of this congregation, making some selfies here. It's not an art academy, it's a National Assembly, and the goal of us is to raise this country that they've pushed a few bottoms, below the bottom. So our goal is to raise the economy, the political reputation of this country. With people like this trying to devalue the work of this congregation, we're not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45971	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović, 13 October 2017. Does MP Dragan Vesovic want a word? Comrade Vesovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45972	Thank you, Chairman. Before I begin to explain the proposal for a declaration, I'll say two words, and then I'll explain those two words in the end. Ugly and sad, two words I want to say, and I'll tell you what I meant when I said it. As far as the declaration is concerned, she's relying on that declaration I was just talking about. Since we, as Serbia's majority Serb people, give up our Serbian language, it is not difficult for us to give up everything that Serbs wrote in a letter that is not Cyrillic. So, all those Serbs in the territories where they lived forever, which are not within the Republic of Serbia today, and which, according to international standards, among the languages that use latinic letters, is not listed in the Serbian language, which is why everything that has been written in the Serbian language in the world library fund is written in Croatia's cultural heritage. And, then, because we don't want this declaration to be declared, to give up both Gundulić and Grić and Mažuranić, we will give up those who were not writers, but were Serbs of Catholic faith, such as Valtazar Božić, such as Ruđer Boskovic. We're going to give up everything we really are, us. At the same time as in a neighboring country, in some Parliament, a decision is made that anyone who was in the ranks of the army is a war criminal, at the same time as the 100,000 people who broke down the Serbian tablet, which was written in Cyrillic. We'll keep quiet here, because this was filed by someone from the Serbian Dvora Movement, and you'll say it's okay to give it up, and you won't vote because it requires party discipline. And I'm asking you to think about it. It's ugly that we're doing this, which we say is true, and it's not true, and it's sad that almost no one will vote for a declaration like this. I will endure it, and I will keep begging you, I tell you, I pray you, to realize that this is important for the Serbian people and for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45973	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the UAR, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2016. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? No, he's not in the O.R. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law establishing the public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation of the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September. 2016. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (No) I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Dual Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Transport, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2018. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's “Sava Mala” district and to determine the facts and responsibilities of the persons who executed the destruction of those facilities, who submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of suspected SNS transactions, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the 2014 parliamentary elections and the 2017 presidential elections, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to establish facts on the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles of the stamp “Skoda” of the Ministry of Interior, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the reconstruction of Slavia Square and the construction of the music fountain, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the fact of how the Serbian Defence Minister, Mr Alexander Vulin, acquired an apartment in Belgrade of 107m square euros worth 244.620 euros, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the project of investment investment investment in agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Belgrade in connection with the signing of the Treaty on the Construction of the Burnery in Vinca, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to establish facts relating to human trafficking in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, etc. "Yellow House", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the IMC Kruševa factory "14. October", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to human victims and material and immaterial damages in floods in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the privatisation of the PKK, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of the US Embassy and the Federal Republic of Germany, which was attacked on 21 February 2008, during the protest "Kosovo is Serbia", as well as responsibility for both the former and current holders of the highest state functions, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in connection with the construction of the Chinese company MEI TA in Baric, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and accountability of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the Treaty on the Project "Belgrade on Water", which he submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia and the company "Al Raw International Investment", which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities for the untrue presentation of the situation in relation to the level of aflatoxin in milk and corn, which caused considerable material and immaterial damage to the Republic of Serbia in 2013, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract between the Serbian government and Etihad Airways on the establishment of an air transport company, Er Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption within the framework of Željzara Smederevo 2015, with a loss of around 150m euros at the annual level, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances of the existence of private listening centres, which, in the service of the highest state offices in the Republic of Serbia, was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the way in which the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabaković, acquired a four-bedroom apartment in Novi Sad, of 144 metres square for which the company "Teleko Serbia" took over the remaining debt to mention the apartment of 77,700 euros, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Higher Education, submitted to the National Assembly by Parliaments Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović on 4 December 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Nogo, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the events during the elections for the Council of Belgrade's committee held on 4 March 2018 from the day of the call for the final results, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic, 22 March 2018. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, buddy Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45974	Anyone who participated in the election knows how chaotic one phenomenon they are. Tens of thousands of people working on election committees, high tension, are often working 24 hours a day and in all such space and such climates, it is clear that there are numerous opportunities for abuse and malfeasance. It's not immune to any country. We've seen that in one America in the presidential election, this last one, Hillary Clinton stole between four and 11 million votes, which of course wasn't enough for her to win, fortunately. So in other countries and environments and in Europe, no one is immune to machinations in the elections, and it is especially characteristic of power, because the government is in the position of effective government, so it has both a knife and a cake. It also has a majority in the electoral commission, controls the voter list, controls the media, and it is quite logical that it has a great advantage and opportunity to conduct these elections as it suits it. The best example, I think, is for that in the region of Montenegro that has led to perfection. We, or our government here, are trying to copy such a single model, but it's the best it's done and it's best accepted. That is why we are proposing survey committees to investigate the last local elections held in Belgrade, as well as all elections held in previous periods. Here is to gather representatives of all parliamentary groups and to really see what regulations and how we are elected, to see what the voter list is, to see what media representation was, to see how the finances flow through the financing of political activities and political parties. On that basis, we can draw certain conclusions. I don't see why the government is afraid to form these committees, especially what they often say and call for events concerning election processes. I know there's been a lot of cases in the past. You know, here you have a larger polling list than your real state. You have a large number of people who have left Serbia or have been fictitiously reported in Serbia for obtaining Serbian passports so that they can travel easier and who will not vote here. This authority knows and then that surplus in the voter list, or such an option, can be manipulatively used for its own benefit. It's a very common case. I also mentioned before people who return to us by reading, so it's perfect for the government, she knows exactly who's blocked at the moment in which the country will certainly not show up and from there those famous ballot calls we've seen in the last elections in Belgrade, where there's been a lot of people named and last name who don't look like they're the faces of Serbian nationality. One such polling committee would help drive out the truth to clean up, quite certainly, since we have a 2016 polling committee here, to see finally what happened in 2016, whether Aleksandar Vucic, as you call him, is this Scott, who throws people into the Assembly or not, or whether there may have been another opposition list, specifically where Cedomir Jovanovic, Boris Tadic and Canak, entered in an illegal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45975	Thank you, colleague Nogo. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—four against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that took place before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 7 October 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law supplementing the VAT Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law on financial support for the family with children, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 12 February 2018. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Act on Excises, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 22 November 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 12 February 2018. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on Road Safety, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 7 May 2018. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bill amending the Law on Income Tax, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 13 October 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2018. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2018. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 17 May 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcys on stock companies from the First Petoletka Trstenik system, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 22 March 2018. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bills on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Elections, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 6 October 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 29 September 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on the establishment of taxes on undeclared citizens' income, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 13 September 2017. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Nogo, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to not solving the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in charge of business banks with credits indexed in Swiss francs, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic on 6 June 2018. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45976	Thank you, Chairman. Credits in Swiss francs hit between 20,000 and 30,000 families, which is about 100,000 Serbian citizens. For years, here, for ten years now, these people are going to have problems. They as legally ignorant parties, even many of them worked in banks, so imagine that they didn't know the consequences of loans in Swiss francs and how awkward and dangerous it is for the population. All these problems have been solved in the countries of the environment and EU countries. Last year, the European Court of Justice practically put an end to the issue by its verdict. These contracts are considered null and are imposed on the courts, EU members, that they must apply the European Court of Justice's decision and examine whether the clients have been sufficiently informed. Nowhere, in any case, there is no evidence of sufficient information from clients. We often discussed this matter in the National Assembly and pointed to the need to help these people. Unfortunately, to this day there is no solution. Deaf to their problems was the National Bank of Serbia, and above all, the courts of Serbia who would have to resolve the issue are deaf. The Supreme Cassation Court had to take a stand and pledged to take a stand by the start of October this year that would order lower courts to rule in judicial proceedings against banks. Unfortunately, Serbia's judiciary is a cancer wound. 75% of Serbia's problem would be resolved by the judiciary. On the side of politicians, whatever the politicians are, if you had judges and prosecutors, there wouldn't be a problem in this country, we'd all have to apply the law and politicians would quickly get in line. On no issue, Serbia's judiciary has almost shown itself, and here is the question of loans indexed in Swiss francs. Those loans should be zero and those people should be compensated. We as the National Assembly cannot pretend that this problem does not exist and we need to form a committee of inquiry to review what the judiciary is doing, because, I remind you, we are the legislative and control authority. If one branch of government fails and doesn't do its job, let's do our control function, because we are the ones who represent the citizens and represent the people in Serbia. So let's see what the relationship between business banks and courts in Serbia is, let's see what all the factors affect the judge's decision without the law. Because the judge only has to stick to the law, not some other factors, not some pressure, whatever nature they are, whether they're political, whether they're financial, whether they're from the country, whether they're from abroad. To get these committees to clean things up, to see how and why judges act in cases like this indexed in Swiss francs and to save those people. Because, 100,000 people, over 20,000 families, maybe the entire 30,000 are expecting our help. A lot of them can't hold out much longer. How many people are unhappy, let's help them and do a great work. I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45977	Thank you, colleague Nogo. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 MPs, of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – the proposal for a declaration of honour to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationalities killed for the country, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 16 October 2017. Does the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45978	Thank you, Chairman. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expresses particular respect and honours all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives fighting wars on the part of the Serbian State, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia suggests that a complete list of all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives in the country wars so that theirs would not be forgotten" are some of the items we propose in this declaration. So we have a duty, we have a duty, we have a right to remember all those citizens of non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives in wars for their country and our country to Serbia. When I proposed this declaration, I was thinking about what to tell you, and every time I propose it, I'm going to mention a few big names that gave you what's most important -- my lives for our common homeland. I don't know if I should start with heroes in the decrees of the Duke of Jovan Dovenski of the village of Dovenci, who freed old Serbia, or Macedonija, and at the time between the two wars sat in this building just as we, as an MP of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and, believe me, performed his duties with much more dignity. Shall I mention Shems Midovic of the 10th Regiment of the Fourth Muhamedan Battalion, who defended our capital city and where we are sitting today? To mention Fehim Musa Kadic, the bearer of Karadjordje's star, the leader of the king's army who, unfortunately, in World War II, was then shot by communists by someone's estimates. Do we have the right to forget them and many others who have given their lives for our country? Which is a more common duty to us than to those who are residents of our country, and not Serbs, we always remember them and always remember them. Again, as a man and then as a People's MP, I ask you to vote for such declarations, regardless of party membership, on your conscience, not on the bell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45979	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities relating to the situation in the Public Enterprise "Post of Serbia", submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic on 10 September 2018. Does the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45980	Thank you, Chairman. While I was talking about those declarations earlier, I'm really talking about them with a lot of patriotic and national enthusiasm. I'm talking about the establishment and the proposal to set up this kind of survey board because this kind of thing is happening in our country. So something rotted in the state of Denmark and the disease, something rotted in the Public Enterprise "Post of Serbia" and sick. That's why we from the Serbian Dvora Movement suggest that a survey committee be formed to examine the next order of facts - why, for example, not until the end of the public competition for the selection of the director of the Public Enterprise "Post-Serbia" which was called, you heard well, on 10 March 2017, and today is October 2018. It's been over a year and a half ever since. We have a director in V.D. Director, which by law is impossible. Why also today Mira Petrović performs his post V.d. The director, by whose decision or by whose justice and by what law? We demand that facts be examined on the signing of a sixm-euro copyright contract with the United Media Group. Will someone tell us something more specific or will they tell us what these are and what facts about the signing of the "Post-Serbia" contract with the company "Inex Plus"? Is there any intention to explain to us why, since 2017, the protests of "Post" workers are taking place and that, after these protests, 47 "Post" workers have been suspended from their jobs, and that they still remain silent today? Is there any intention, in the end, of anyone telling us about the total "Post" business? What's it like and why is it the way it is? If all of this is like this, and you keep silent about it, we suggest that one survey committee be formed which I am otherwise convinced that you have not read, because if you had read it, you would see how meaningful it is, within 30 days of the day of the constitution to give us answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45981	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities relating to unpaid diaries for war veterans, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Zoran Radojić, 14 September 2018. Does MP Dragan Vesovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45982	Mr. Chairman, a recently respected colleague Delic spoke of an area that overlaps with this area, and we, again from the Serbian Dveri Movement, suggest that a polling committee be formed to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unpaid war veterans' diaries. In fact, it's not at all a questionable story that anyone whose homeland in their heart is something that is most likely freedom and all those who have been mentioned in a long time ago and in some recent period of time about people I'm talking about have responded to with honorable calls to participate in the defense of the country have gone as people who deserve every form of respect. After these recent conflicts that were in the country of Serbia, what have we done as a state of Serbia with those who today can be classified as military veterans? We did very little or almost nothing. In order to correct this matter and to address the issues that are important to the part of people who participated in such facts, it would be to look at the facts and circumstances in the first place in relation to unpaid war veterans' journals, and in relation to the reduction of recognised rights for the payout of combatants and families of fallen fighters, to implement an adequate application of the rules on orthopedic aids, because many have the need for such assistance since they have given their body parts in such actions, to look at what is finally with the construction of apartments that went out of the Japanese donation, and on which I have no answers today, to establish criteria for the financing of the Boring-Inhabitation, which there are almost all of our cities and to enable the use, i.e. the use of personal data by third parties and public participation of such data. As important as this is, the latest light casts out what is happening in the neighbouring country, the Republic of Croatia, that all those who are Serbian nationalities, who participated in combat acts, can be potential war criminals for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45983	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstention - who has not voted for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts and circumstances related to the work of the RTS, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjusevic, Srdjan Nogo, Dr Dragan Vesović and Zoran Radojićičić, 14 September 2018. Does MP Dragan Vesovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45984	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A similar proposal has been made since several opposition colleagues, as this is about RTS which represents itself as an official Public Media Service for True Intelligence, and otherwise in the description under the Law on Labour of RTS, its work should be based on the following principles – truly impartial, complete and timely informing, independence of editorial policy, respect for professional standards and codes, banning any form of censorship and illegal influence on the work of directors and journalists, as well as independence from the source of funding. Of all the things I've read in my life, there's almost nothing. RTS has become a media voice I do not know, but not all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because I am a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and since we have been denied the right to take a view which is different from the opinion of the majority, which I, by the way, do not accept, but I do, I would only like my opinion, which is probably unacceptable, to be freely expressed. That function should have RTS. The RTS function is not and therefore the Serbian Dveri Movement requires the formation of a polling committee to examine whether RTS is working in accordance with what is prescribed by law or RTS is doing in a way that it believes should work under a milder or larger, firmer or softer pressure of the ruling coalition. How is it possible that RTS does not have a single political show where representatives of government and opposition would face their views and thus give the people the opportunity to assess which one of us is right and which one of us is wrong? So I suggest, as much as it may seem to you from your point of view incorrectly, that you support such a polling committee because the world is like a meridian, who would be up there, and whoever stays up there, the wheel is going to need once-in-a-lifetime independent media to those who are in power today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45985	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for four, there is no one who has ever voted. 131 was not a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts relating to the beating of journalists on the day of the presidential oath, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Dr Dragan Vesović and Zoran Radojićičić on 14 September 2018. Does MP Dragan Vesovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the regularity of foreign vaccines, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Dr Dragan Vesovic and Zoran Radojić on 14 September 2018. Does the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45986	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an extremely important topic. I'm a health care professional, and all of us, who have studied universities that are related to medical professions, know what is important and what is the importance of vaccination. None of the people who are seriously in the profession are going to be able to put that one of the greatest medical achievements into another plan. However, in some period that is right behind us, we have experienced that in the 21st century, children die from diseases that should be eradicated to normally apply the vaccination process. Then we welcome the profession to remain silent, and from various televisions, from various reality programs, call the media stars and call the professionals, give advice whether we should carry out the vaccination or not. In the conversation, as a person who meets both groups of people, I asked people who belong to a group that is against the vaccine - what's their biggest problem? The biggest problem is what we highlighted in the proposal for this decision on the polling committee. Their biggest problem is mistrust in the vaccine itself, as the vaccine is not produced in the state of Serbia, and is not believed to be vaccines that come from the side. Once in a golden age, when this country was bigger and more functional, and for which I have the same desire as you, to return, it was the Torak Institute that made our vaccines. Today, for the largest number of diseases, they come from abroad. Therefore, we propose to see how the Institute for Virology of Vaccines and Serums "Torlak" controls and determines the correctness of vaccines by an external producer used for mandatory immunisation of children. We therefore propose that within the framework of the Institute of Virology of Vaccines and Serum "Torak", a reference laboratory be set up to examine the causes and samples of imported vaccines so that this small part of the doubt that, I say, exists to the unprofessional public would be withdrawn and that we could apply what is the greatest achievement to the universal gender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45987	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify facts related to the privatisation of the spa, sources of drinking water and property of the PIO Fund, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Zoran Radojićičić on 14 September 2018. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45988	I thank the chairman. So the topic of this polling committee would be drinking water, privatising spas in Serbia and the PIO fund. Since spas in the Republic of Serbia are of paramount importance, both for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the economic strengthening of the entire country, the question arises as to who is and why has granted approval to privatise our spa via a desperate model of privatisation? The basic thesis for the kidnapping and collapse of the spa was that the spas were poor, that they couldn't rebuild themselves and that it would be good to privatize them. However, we are instead to allow the state to let those who are the real owners of the spa, and these are all users of the PIO Fund and those who fill it today. So all citizens who are employed, all pensioners, disabled workers, etc., who are the real owners of the spa, can't decide because the state supported the PIO fund and privatised the spas. So the real owners of the spa and the entire assets of the PIO fund, which I will remind, is about 10 billion euros, cannot decide on the fate of our spas, and they also cannot decide on the fate of their own drinking water sources. What did the state do? The state privatises drinking water sources, and has supported the PIO Fund and has made it impossible for citizens to decide all this together. Drinking water is one of the reasons for the wars in Africa and the Middle East, and we are abundant in this resource, but it is not infinite. So, you need to keep it safe. That is why we have suggested that one survey committee actually puts all these issues in order, that the current state be shown to the public by name and last name, because here we still have a chance to keep all these spas in order and introduce some order. I must say that I am extremely concerned with the statement by Minister Ljajic, who said that the first spas, which will be privatised, will be Vranjska Banja, Sijarinska Banja and Kursumliska Banja. He did not answer my question, does it make some kind of green transferzal and why the spas are privatising in the far south of Serbia. So, one polling committee's education to determine facts related to the privatization of spas, sources of drinking water and property of the PIO fund can still save us those ten billion. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45989	I thank my colleague Janjušević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 131 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the effect of subsidising foreign enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic on 14 September 2018. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45990	Thank you, Chairman. The task of this survey committee would be to take into account the facts and circumstances relating to the effect of subsidisation of foreign enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and thus to establish the amount of total resources granted, i.e. the total amount of funds paid to support foreign investors in the Republic of Serbia from 2012 to 2018, the list of all enterprises and amounts they have received and used for this type of incentive given by the Government of Serbia and, of course, to establish the effect of allocating these funds. I will remind you, from 2012 to 2018, the period when the public debt of the Republic of Serbia increased about 10 billion euros in these six years. So the Serbian Dvora movement is really not against investment. Of course we need development investments and foreign investors are welcome to invest in Serbia, but it would be normal for Serbia to see some positive effect after six years of such investment. As far as I know, we don't know how much of the funds we've managed to save, to keep, the standard of citizens of the Republic of Serbia hasn't improved, foreign companies don't pay profits here, show business with loss. So, there's just something wrong. Perhaps the Serbian movement of Dvori is wrong. Let us establish by forming a survey committee whether it is true that subsidies to foreign companies are extremely harmful to the domestic economy of the Republic of Serbia or perhaps we need to give more money to them. So when it's transparent, we're going to welcome all these measures that SNS is taking here, but that would mean that the public debt is shrinking, not increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45991	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 17 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45992	We have proposed a declaration on the protection of the family in Serbia, simply because we believe that this is the key to Serbia's success, it is a way out of this situation that we are now invisible to demographic policy, economically and each other. Today we join fellow Macuri, support the action "Moms are the law". Why? Because today the family is at risk, because at least the declared Serbia must clearly say that it is a friend of the family. The family in Serbia should be based on the marriage community of men and women and the basic economic unit. In this way we will raise a healthy offspring, we will also have economic security and I claim that the family is the largest national resource of the Republic of Serbia. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic believes this declaration is not necessary for Serbia. I didn't notice that she did something smart and new on demographic advice. It is claimed that the promotion of both marriages will soon begin. So it is clear to me why SNS MPs should not vote for what they feel intimately, to vote for Serbia to be a country friend of the family. I now appeal to the conscience of all of you, and I hope you will support, at least declaredly, that you accept that Serbia should be the protector and friend of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45993	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who has not voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the work of the RTV, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović and Zoran Radojićičić on 14 September 2018. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45994	Thank you, Chairman. What the Serbian Dvori Movement wants is for the polling committee to determine whether Serbian citizens' public services are indeed public services, whether they are indeed reporting in the interest of Serbian citizens or simply serving the regime for deception, especially during the election to participate in the election theft. I think it's clear to all of us that RTV is exclusively protecting the interests of the regime, misleading citizens and not doing what the citizens of Serbia are for, and specifically, the AP Vojvodina, are paying. Personally, I would be very grateful to all the editors on TV if, at least when they were talking about the southern province, when they were talking about Kosovo and Metohija -- they're quasi-ing Kosovo, a falsely declared state of Kosovo, and not when they say they're acting the way Kyle Scott or Scott behaves today, I don't know what you agreed to call it. So, if all the participants in the media coverage were to repeat every day at least twice the quasi state of Kosovo, the false, self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, the climate in our society would change and people wouldn't be as apathetic and high-ranking Kosovo and Metohija wouldn't be possible and we wouldn't be on the edge like we are now. Thank all the journalists who will listen to me and who will participate in at least this symbolic way in the fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45995	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Decision on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation of Study B, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović and Zoran Radojić on 14 September 2018. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45996	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to Studio B, it's very clear. So in 1992, studio B employees bought 80% of this study and their property was kidnapped. It was announced at a session of the Belgrade City Assembly of Property and was left at the mercy of privates. So the state made it possible to rob the real owners of Studio B, and these were the ones who were employed in 1992. One survey board would at least be compensated, even if the entire public was informed that the state had been publicly robbed and that the city authorities had approved it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45997	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two – no one who has been abstention – who has not voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee, in order to identify the facts and circumstances relating to the accidental spending of funds allocated for the pre-election campaign, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about external organizations. Before me, I was told by a third-degree master of a large masseuse in Serbia. Is this an extreme organization, a secret society? Yes, it is. I don't know if it's good or bad, but Bosko Obradovic here claimed it was the worst thing, and all the while next to him was the master of the big female box, Marija Janjusevic, in Serbia. Let me remind you, Greek and SPC have been anathetizing the masseary. So, an organisation that wants to be Orthodox, Serbian, family, as they are betrayed, all along for the officials of the organization have a great master of the large masseuse of the third degree, or as it is already called. Says the Serbian Church like this -- the Serbian Orthodox Church has anatemised the masseary and anyone involved in the work of free builders departs from Christianity. I also have to remind the SPC of its position, a team that repeats it several times, so it says -- so the masseary, free masonry, magical religion is completely separate and foreign to the Christian faith. So someone who is being betrayed as a Christian Orthodox organization should know that. The Orthodox Church characterized the masseary as a false antichrist system. These are the church's views on this organization. Furthermore, Bulgaria's ATAKA, Bosko Pernar, so this is Bosko Pernar, they're talking about the NDH genocide, but they don't mention "Storm", Bosko Pernar with Obradovic and Ustasha. The same Bosko Pernar says -- those who expelled Serbs from Krajina during the "Storm", are themselves Serbian leaders. Did this, the organisation calling itself a Serbian Orthodox, agree with Bosca Pernar that Serbs had expelled themselves. Furthermore, Bosko Pernar says that Serbs should recognise the genocide in Srebrenica. Does that mean Dvori Bosko Obradovica agreed with it. He says – until the Serbs recognise the genocide in Srebrenica, it will not be good. That is what Bosko Pernar, a dear guest of the organisation who calls itself Serbian courtesies, says.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u45999	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three people. 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts and circumstances related to the work of REM during election campaigns 2014, 2016, 2017 and 2018, which were submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović and Zoran Radojić, 14 September 2018. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46000	I'd like to thank the chairman. In fact, the committee that would have been dealing with REM at all would have had one logical task to realize that REM does not exist, that REM itself has declared irrelevant, irrelevant and that the only thing they do is pollute the public media space by protecting Pink and protecting all the broadcasters of reality programs. The reality is the main generator of this monster in Serbia, is the main guardian of the regime and REM is their extended arm. It just needs to be determined. It should be noted that they did not control the work of Pink from 2014 to 2017 when they paid taxes and everything else to the Republic of BiH, and in fact they were all illegally recorded in Serbia, but the time will come for someone to deal with it and, of course, to deal with the REM advisers who kept quiet about all this, who regularly receive the wages paid to them by broadcasters and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So it just has to end. If they are not already ashamed of not doing what they are called for, then they should simply be shut down and formed by a body that will indeed deal with the control of the media area and that will prevent electoral theft and allow for the correct informing of Serbian citizens at the time of the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46001	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for four peoples. There is no one who has been abstaining. There is no one who has voted 133 people's messengers. (National MP Sasa Radulovic eats a sandwich in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Coli Radulovic, I would only take advantage of the opportunity before we continue to ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that the corresponding decision on the internal order, and you should have seen it by now and that you know the details of that decision, the introduction and consumption of food in the hall is not allowed during the session. You can't get the word. Please respect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and do not do so. [[Branka Stamenkovic: Well, take a break for lunch.]] National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which they submitted to the National Assembly... . (National MP Sasa Radulovic approaches the chair of the chairman. First, I didn't let you in. (Sasa Radulovic: I came to ask you. I didn't let you in. Please step back. Please step aside, because I'm just reading the additions to the agenda. [[Saša Radulovic: Take a break or something.]] (Sasa Radulovic: I don't know how else to eat and work. ) Will you please step aside. I give you a warning, Mr. Radulovich. [[Sasa Radulovic: Do you want to take a break?]] National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marija Janjušević and Bosko Obradović, 23 October 2017. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46002	I thank the chairman. It is a very important law on the prevention of discrimination, which was essentially necessary in Serbia, but unfortunately it was not brought in at a time when children, the Roma population, persons with disabilities in Serbia, were found to be discriminated against, but had to interfere with the EU and be forced to adopt the Law when the LGBT population demanded it. They, of course, somehow blended into these sensitive groups even though they couldn't prove exactly where they were discriminated against, and after the law was introduced, they got the most satisfactions somewhere. Children, Roma, people with disabilities are still exposed to discrimination, while LGBT activists are professional, they even get to have their prime minister, but they're not happy with it, we move on, there's a lot of pressure to get them into textbooks and that children even in preschool age are exposed to sexualisation. I have proposed amendments to this law on the prevention of discrimination, so that they are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that parents can raise their children as they are guaranteed by the Constitution, in accordance with their moral, religious and traditional principles. It's these tiny changes I've suggested, which will guarantee that our children will not be exposed to premature sexualization or promoting LGBT ideas. For this reason, thank you for continuing to have a law on preventing discrimination with these changes, but in such a way that it is not discriminated against by traditional Serbia and I thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46003	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 134 MPs for four. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process from the day of the call of the Republic elections until the day of publication of the final results of the elections, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46004	Thank you. Education of the polling committee to determine what was happening on the April 2016 election night is of paramount importance to all of us. On that night, Aleksandar Vucic tried to reverse the electoral will of citizens and to testify to the opposition, he knew what was waiting for him, all the events in this meeting proved what he was afraid of and why it did not suit him in any way that the Serbian Dvori movement would be a parliamentary party. He, however, promised that we would never be again, but he will not be asked about it, but will be asked about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How – so, we will enable Serbia to have the right elections one day and that it can choose according to the will of citizens, not with torture, lies, delusions and what we are not exposed to today. What is extremely important to me as a woman is to prove that no one from the Serbian Dvori Movement has ever been violent towards anyone, especially women. We will be able to see by watching closely the footage from that night that Maja Pejcic attacked MP Ivan Kostic, that Mr Kovacevic threatened Bosca Obradovic, and that the media under the pressure of Aleksandar Vukic, reported that Bosko Obradovic had attacked physical women. No one's ever proved it. Afterwards, Maja Pejcic received the award, another post, the president of the “Slavija” Hotel Shareholders' Assembly, if I am not mistaken, so no one has dealt with this deeply. It was enough to lie that Bosko Obradovic was a bully against women, repeated enough times to become true. For this reason, for the Serbian Movement Dvora, all women in Dvori, but all women in Serbia, too, are extremely important to prove that they are the only criminals against women in Serbia, in the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46005	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Janjusevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of an independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the MP, Maria Janjušević, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46006	Thank you. The issue of an independent state of Croatia's genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma is necessary to speak with a special pitet. What's the scariest fact that 70 years no one has written down all the victims. We don't know the names of everyone who's been killed, and there's only over 700,000 Serbs. What is also terrible is that the authorities in the Republic of Croatia are now trying and many historians outside Croatia are trying to minimize the number of victims, even showing it to some 40,000, which is terrible. But we don't really have the right to be angry with anyone, it's up to us Serbs to list our victims and make the whole world respect them, never to repeat to anyone the kind of suffering that Serbs had in the 20th century and to start from London and continue to remember that Serbs are called genocide people. Only these resolutions and only our determination will keep us from it. No friends from the West, no false friends of Alexander Vukic, only the Serb people are with their own forces.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46007	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for the three, against them – none, the abstentioned, did not vote 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, to identify the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, certain extremist organisations and individuals who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are certainly familiar with the friendly contacts Bosko Obradović has been growing, the famous Ljoticvac, lately Djilas Ljoticevic, who is being held according to Bulgaria's Ataka and all other extreme organisations in Europe. The problem of co-operation is that Bulgaria's Ataka is seeking parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and probably this "Serbian Orthodox organisation Dvori" is giving them support. That's why I think we should examine it, as we need to examine the contact with Pernar. So, Bosko and Pernar here in the National Assembly, face to face, took a friendly picture. It's the grandson of a man who asked how much Serbian blood cost. In a few days, this same Pernar, a friend of Bosko Obradovic, took pictures with Ustashas in Vukovar. So, when someone is talking, and here we've had penetrating cheeks, when someone talks about genocide in Croatia, and leaves out "Storm" from the document, then does it planically, then it's this organization that's called the Dveri Planned, except for the storm so that it doesn't insult Pernar, so as not to do it to Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who claimed that "Storm" was a humanitarian action, Srebrenica genocide. So someone with intent is spreading delusions here and wants to introduce himself as a Serbian Orthodox family organization. When someone not only cooperates, but also finances, a large women's masseuse in Serbia which they claim is bad, I don't know, when someone finances it and buys that organization three pillars in the temple, a sword for pricking, black canvass for tables, a black widow's bag, a cornerstone and a sixth for an altar, a hammer and a pin, a stone, a rope for lost steps, a hammer for wood, a skull, etc., when someone tells a spear for CM, what it is, I don't know, a sword for the east and sword for the castle, therefore, there is a fundamental doubt that certain political parties, that certain MPs and politicians keep in touch with secret societies, with extreme organizations, including that alternative in Germany and I think that it is necessary to examine the activity of that organisation, establish a committee and see who is in this Assembly is the penned face, who here is constantly talking with the most of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46009	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: six favours; none, none, the abstentioned, did not vote 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a declaration on GMOs and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does the People's MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic, want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Prof. Dr. Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday and today were two significant dates. Yesterday was the World Day of Women in the Village or Village Women, as who translates, and today is World Food Day. Today in Rome, in the seat of the FAO, it is precisely the Committee on Food Safety, so there is probably no more appropriate and convenient day to talk about the GMO declaration than today, because it is practically today that the initiative to transgenic organisms and their presence in the biological environment is eliminated for all time, given its devastating consequences. We were engaged in the territory of the Republic of Serbia from 2013 to 2016, excluding the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija for understandable reasons and from 169 municipalities and cities, I mean cities without municipalities in their own composition, declarations of GMOs, or bans on imports, cultivation, processing and traffic of GMOs and products, was adopted unanimously in 136 local self-government by over 6,000 councils in these municipalities and cities. Unfortunately, the declaration I proposed as a non-partisan MP last year, which is exactly identical to that text, which differs only in one article, which calls for a referendum on GMOs, such as in many countries in the world, such as Switzerland, Hungary, Uruguay, etc., to be heard here, although of the 250 MPs sitting here today, 223 MPs live in the territory of these 130 local self-governments. This raises the question not only of position, but also of opposition MPs from the area of these 136 municipalities and cities whether they are indeed representatives of citizens from their territory or only representatives of their party leaders. Does this mean that the election law should be amended and that instead of parties in the future, individuals with a name and a last name participate in the elections and that citizens are then pleading for their MPs independently of political membership? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46011	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five; against—no one—no one, the abstentioned—has voted, not 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on PIO, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Does the People's Messenger, Professor Miladin Ševarlic, want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46012	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've had a very extensive discussion recently on this subject. After almost four years of taking part of acquired rights, property rights, an extremely large group of pensioners, we propose to pass a bill on amendments to the Law on PIO to be adopted. First, that the Fund’s Management Board has 15 members, appointed and resolved by the Government of Serbia, but according to the following key: five members from the line of rights on a proposal from the Association of Pensioners based on the Republic’s highest number of members; five members from the insurance group on a proposal from the Republic’s representative unions established at the level of the Republic in accordance with the law governing the work, which has the highest number of members; two members from the ranks of the employer’s representatives and one representative from the Union of employers and one representative from the Ministry of State Administration; one member from the Ministry of Public Affairs of PIO; one member from the Ministry of Finance’s Office and one member from the largest representative union of employees in the Republic Fund for PIO Republic of Serbia. In this way, instead of the current solution dominated by the representatives of the government, the Governing Board would create a more responsible and re-resentative picture of the structure of those who really need to decide on the management of the Republic Fund for PIO. At the same time, there remains an open question of the recovery of funds from pensioners, because these are property rights and I think that this assembly or the next assembly in the future will address this issue in a more responsible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46013	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five; against—no one—no one, the abstentioned—has voted, not 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the business of the company "Tenis" and the award of land to this company, which were submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesović on 14 September 2018. Does the People's MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46014	Thank you again, Mr. Vice President. So here is the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to establish the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the business of Tenis and by giving the lease of land to this company. We are witnessing problems that have hit Serbia in a period of transition and in previous regimes and in this regime with regard to mastery, i.e. the use of one of the most significant resources, which the old Chinese proverb says is the mother of all things. So, the survey committee's task is to look at the facts and circumstances regarding the arrival of Tenis in Serbia and by giving it a lease for agricultural land, given that the company in its home country does not have a single hectare of agricultural land, nor does that pig's throat in Germany. Let's see the content and text of the Memorandum signed in April 2015 between Serbia and the company Tenis. Secondly, who exactly are the signatories of both the Contracting Parties to the Republic of Serbia and the company "Tenis", which are the rights and obligations of the parties to this Memorandum, which by law or by the laws of the Republic of Serbia has defined the business which is the subject of the Memorandum, which is the basis of which the law, on the basis of which the evaluations were approved by the company "Tenis" to rent 2,420 hectares in the Municipality of Zrenjanin, and today cattle farmers in the territory of the City of Zrenjanin do not have the opportunity to obtain any hectare by the parole of cattle and are forced to destroy their breeding herds? Who, on the basis of which and under what conditions should the boards of the company "Tenis" use another 7,000 hectares, come out about 9,500 hectares in total and who, and by what law, and for which land has granted the right of the championship to the company "Tenis" since 1 November 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46015	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Vinograd" affair and the assets of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me take my turn. They say the Masons and let you know that our Maria Janjusevic has entered that parliament, Scott and the Masons have put a lot of shit in here. Let me remind you, my colleague spoke before me about "Tenis" and the investment plan, about the land that the company received. He kept quiet when a pile of land was issued since 2006/2007, including Zivkovic's vineyard for 30 years through investment consent. So, without any obligation, whoever gets the land invests on it any processing or employment. In doing so, it was allowed to give investment consent for 30 years and for land subject to restitution. Professor Chevarlic kept his mouth shut. Professor Sevarlic, who now advocates guaranteed prices, kept his mouth shut when he signed the SAA in 2007, initialled in 2008. He kept quiet because it was probably worth it to him. Sasa Dragin and Dusan Petrovic paid at the expense of his association 63,000 euros for a study they never received, a study on co-operation. While the professor was doing a study on cooperatives, all the cooperatives fell apart, he kept quiet. Today, thank God he spoke. He kept quiet until 2012 about GMOs, he spoke in 2013, but he is not an expert in genetic organisms. He is reportedly an expert in cooperatives that have disappeared in turn as the prey of Dilas, Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic and teams that sold 300 thousand hectares with hundreds of combinations and cooperatives, sold for a total of 50m euros. Today, the professor is a little short when he gets 122 million for one combination, then he shuts up, now he's gone. When it comes to modified organisms, I have to remind the viewers specifically that they need to be careful here. I don't mind the ban, but that's where the selection has to be done. Say, insulin, without genetic modification, can't exist. My dear sugars, the professor is about to give you a death sentence. So I'm not against it, but science has to say what it can and can't be modified. Speaking of organisms modified, modified body that wears a suit, and only when it's due to enter the Assembly, it puts on a folk costume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46017	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Goran Chabradi, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission for the determination of the consequences of industrial pollution of water, air and land by the health of the residents of the town of Pančev, the Municipality of Bor, Obrenovac, as well as the inhabitants of municipalities along the Veliki Bačka canal (Vrbas, Kula, Crvenka, Sivac), which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 May 2018. Does the MP, Mr. Goran Chabradi, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46018	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I have today submitted three proposals to supplement the agenda. We've been here a long time, so you know that I don't do it often, I have prepared a dozen legal proposals, but I'm not going to abuse this time. However, I will tell you what happened today to submit three proposals and all three proposals related to the protection of the environment. To tell you the truth, I am delighted with the debate in the last session, the wave of all MPs and all parliamentary groups when we had formal technical amendments to one important law, but these changes were of a formal nature and such changes to the formal nature of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, we had the plebicytary here the enthusiasm of one and one debate where all MPs explained that they and their policies and political groups were concerned about citizens, taking care of health, caring about the environment. For this reason, I realized that we think alike here, the vast majority, I have submitted three proposals, all three of them concern the environment and the health of the citizens. Unfortunately, the first proposal today to be considered by an emergency procedure, so I have not had the opportunity to explain it is to form, to decide on the formation of a commission that will examine the potential adverse effects of the construction of a mini hydrocenter in areas of protected natural resources. Unfortunately, only eight MPs supported the proposal. Then I'm afraid, I'm thinking out loud that maybe what we're saying and not thinking. I don't know if we think it or not, but we don't do it. Out of 130 and something, 150 MPs, as it was today at some point, only eight MPs supported the proposal. I don't think it's good, but anyway, I'm going to continue to force the adoption of the proposal, supplementing the agenda, the law, commissions that will raise the standard in the environment. The commission I proposed at this point was to examine the impact of pollution in Serbia's four most polluted environments on the health of the population. We as a state, we as a society, are obliged to provide information to our residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46019	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no more than 136 Members of the people who have been abstaining. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Goran Chabradi, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2018. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Goran Chabradi want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46020	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, unfortunately, here we are once again confirmed that what we are saying and we are not acting that way. With this proposal, I want to encourage you to try as a society to think a little bit wider, not to always respond to the consequences and their resolution. This is where I suggested amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. Why? Because as a society, we've been ignoring the great pollution we've had in this country for decades. As a society only recently, in recent months, we have unearthed some crates, in some places, 25 tons of hazardous waste has been discovered in Obrenovac, and then we react later, with subsequent intelligence and allow, in fact, in such a way that individuals, companies, think they can behave as they please, that they can pollute the permanent environment, whether they know it or not. As a state, we must send a message to sanction such irresponsible behavior. Such irresponsible behaviour cannot be sanctioned properly by the existing Criminal Law, so we in the Green Party predicted that a special category should be singled out and formed that would be called ecoterrorism. It would, in fact, mean very clearly what we intend as a society to do with those who pollute and pollute the human environment for a long time and, of course, the citizens of this country. I call on you to support this proposal in a slightly larger number. These things and the environment are above daily policy and I think the citizens of Serbia will know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46021	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention against the Messengers of the people. 141 was not voted by the Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Lutrija Serbia" affair, related to Gjorge Vukadinovic, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is known that Djordje Vukadinovic has tried to join the Assembly on the list of Vlaška national minorities. It's also known that he won money on the lottery, two million and four hundred thousand. This should be examined under what circumstances. But also, what's a little familiar with you, Mr. Martinovic, is that we also have a fake Slovak, we also have a fake Green Party. Let me explain. The Green Party has come to parliament as a national minority party. We can't draw blood from anyone. Everyone has the right to plead as they please. That's what Gjorge Vukadinovic was right about, and Mr. Chabradi is right about that. But, let me explain, if you are a party to the Slovak National Minority, it's not nice when the President of the Slovak Assembly comes here to this Parliament, that you do not, as a representative of the Slovak Party, come to that session, probably because Mr. President of the Slovak Assembly strongly supported Serbia and its integrity, but that is why you come to sign the Srebrenica genocide declaration, you come to this, but you don't come to this. Also, as far as the environment is concerned, I agree that it is a very important healthy air, soil, water, and that we must protect this planet, because one people does not only make up the present generation, but also the past and future one. For generations to come, we have to leave this planet at least in the same state that we got it from our ancestors. The offspring should be given at least in the same condition, if not in a healthier state. That's why I'm pushing for renewable energy sources, for less air, soil and water pollution. But let me tell you, there's a fake Green Party. I have a signed statement where employees at a service in Novi Sad say that the president of the Green Party, the Slovak national minority, is under the name of the Green Party, so-called "when a catalyst in his car broke down," instead of buying a new one, asked them to take it out. Now, that's what we do with fake Vlas, fake Slovaks, fake Slovak parties, fake green parties, and those lies we have to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46023	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no more than 137 people's messengers who have been abstaining. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the legality of donations to the Serbian Progressive Party for the 2017 presidential election campaign, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2017. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one other than the Messenger of the people, against those who are abstentions, who has not been voted by 143 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska and Branka Stamenković, on 8 November 2017. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one other than the Messenger of the people, against those who are abstentions, who has not been voted by 143 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Bozic, 17 August 2018. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46024	I thank you, Chairman. The motive for me to submit a proposal to amend and supplement this law lies in the fact that there are a large number of citizens who are launching national, civil initiatives, collecting signatures within a very limited timeframe, able to collect a large amount of signatures, and ultimately with these signatures they can't do anything. One such proposal is also a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code for which some 160,000 signatures were collected. I think it is absolutely illogical for such a proposal to amend and supplement the law, given that this has been desired by 160,000 citizens in Serbia, cannot come to the Assembly's agenda. It is, therefore, one of the draft laws that, due to this law, for which I am asking for an amendment, have failed to be found on the agenda of the Assembly. With that in mind, I would suggest by this law how optimal is the time for MPs, or the president of the National Assembly, to have some proposal, which comes from the citizens, not the agenda of the Assembly. I find it inadmissible, or my parliamentary group and MPs of the Centre's Movement, that it is inadmissible for the power of the citizens to be under the power of a national MP. So if I, as a national MP, can change this very proposal and supplement the law to hand it over by just wanting to do so, and that these same citizens in this place have chosen me, I find it unacceptable that when they want to do the same thing, and that they don't bond with any political organisation, they can do it just as a group of individuals who don't want to wear political features, they can't do it. I hope, dear colleagues, for the first time I represent this law in the Assembly, that I will get your support, and precisely because of one of the perhaps greatest and most difficult, proposals that we can hear in public today, which are proposals for amending the Criminal Code. So the 160,000 signatures coming to change this code can't be less powerful than the 250 MPs sitting here. Let's make this right. Why are we sitting here? These same citizens who supported this initiative supported us sitting here with their voices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46025	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 July 2018. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, two, and 143 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, submitted to the National Assembly by the National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas on 25 September 2018. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46026	Thank you, Chairman. For me today and at all these days, this is the most important law that our Assembly can put on the agenda. Whether you agree or disagree with my bill or not, you cannot deny that there is an extremely large problem in Serbia with over a thousand mothers, possibly several thousand mothers who today suffer the consequences of the bad law that we recently adopted in the Serbian Parliament. The law proposed in the Serbian Parliament does not bear party colors. It's very important that you remember. The law was written by mothers in Serbia, they wrote in four cities: Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis. They all have a problem with the application of this law. What we have reached consensus on these talks has been put into the proposal to amend and supplement this law. Today, I ask you to support, on behalf of your friends, the godfather, the sisters, all those who suffer the consequences of the laws that we so quickly and thoughtlessly adopted in the Assembly just a few months ago, with your vote, that this law should come on the agenda of the Assembly. Something we're proposing, we have a dozen provisions we're referring to, but I'm just going to set some aside. We ask that 18 months, as far as the bill of compensation they need to receive the maternity leave, based on maternity leave and leave due to child care, be reduced from 18 to 12 months. Women in Serbia today have a very difficult time getting to work. I'll only give you one example. A woman from Nis, who I met at an open debate, has been volunteering in a public company since 2011. She's an invisible worker for this system, and for her, it's a mental noun to realize those 12 months we're proposing, let alone 18. Because of it and because of thousands of other women, I suggest that every mother in Serbia who is born has the right to monthly compensation at the height of the republican minimum. We have the budget space to provide these compensations to the most sensitive group of women living in Serbia today. Also, that entrepreneurs, who and how they fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, are recognised in the right way to pay their taxes and contributions so as not to suffer because of the poor application of this law. Then, to account for maternity leave, there is also a pregnancy leave, because it is not a hierarchy of women but a necessity, not to further marginalise farm insurance, as well as mother children with disabilities, to identify each third, fourth, and every next child in the family. Vote for, dear colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46027	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and Storm, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46028	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unfortunate statements that the genocide and statement by Sanda Raskovic Ivić were committed in Srebrenica that the Storm was, in front of Mr Letica, on a TV show, humanitarian action caused irreparable damage, and with a statement from Boskov's friend Ivan Pernar that Serbs had expelled themselves. So there is a system in making these statements and probably behind are financial, property reasons. That's why we should be looking into it. As far as the previous proposal is concerned, and Mrs. Sanda is a doctor, I supported the previous proposal, but our viewers need to know that this government in the budget has found a place for births, depending on the number of children, to pay once, very quickly, from one million to four million, and that people should know, depending on the number of children born. The least they get is 100,000 dinars, it's never been, plus revenues from the local budget. All local self-government, I mean, isolating extra resources. That should be said, and we should commend this authority for finding the money for these needs, but what did the previous government do? What were those who waved at us with these banners? What was Vlad Jesic doing? What were Mr. Martinovic and Vlad Jesic doing? Taken from the birth of 57,000 euros. What were Sasa Radulovic and Mrs Macura doing? What were they doing in the election campaign? The money that was supposed to return to the budget, which was neutral, did not return it. What were they doing with that money? Click, click. Do you believe they charged the click? In order not to make money for the state, they did fictitious jobs and that's to say, that money was taken from pregnant women, that money was taken from pensioners, that money was taken from mothers. This was done by Dvori, done by Sasa Radulovic, made fictitious jobs and money from the campaign transferred to their members. One of them was Mrs. Macura, she was Mrs. Nikolic, she was Mrs. Stamenkovic. They all got 800,000 dinars for their companies to click on. That's when you click on a mouse from a computer and don't take it to target a political opponent like Bosko Obradovic did. This is what our people need to know that this government has been saving, that instead of 834 billion, how much of the former government they support has been harvesting, it's picking up 1,100 billion, three billion euros more in the register than they've been picking up. Who used to steal those three billion? Well, they do. Who were they stealing from? From pregnant women, from children, from the sick, from the poor, they stole from them, and they need to know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46029	I thank my colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the origin of the money that Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin bought an apartment in Belgrade, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2017. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Radulovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46030	Thank you, Chairman. Some time ago, all citizens are more or less familiar with the fact that Alexander Vulin, the military minister, bought an apartment for 244,000 euros if I'm not mistaken. That's what he said. He could show the Anti-Corruption Agency 44,000, but for those 200,000, he told the Anti-Corruption Agency that those 200,000 euros, which, of course, the citizens know, nobody can make out of salary, and Mr. Minister was doing nothing but getting some party jobs from his aunt in Canada. That would be very nice if all Serbian citizens had such an aunt in Canada who would give them 200,000 euros. However, few of our ministers got involved in this story about aunts and Canada and the 200,000 euros, as citizens probably know there is a limit to the introduction of money into Serbia, so when you bring in 10,000 euros, or more than 10,000 euros, you have to report it at the border. Since the minister doesn't have a single application at the border for the money he allegedly carried, and there's no traffic over the bill that that money really came from an aunt in Canada, then the competent state authorities had to question it a little bit. The only way to get those 200,000 euros legally into the country is if he bought about 20 plane tickets, so that he traveled there, from Serbia to Canada and back 20 times to take those 200,000 euros. He had to take a little more money since one ticket to Canada and back cost at least 700-800 euros, so when you multiply it by 20 times, it's huge money. Well, the minister doesn't prove anything. The D.A.'s office is getting a report that he's looking into this. However, they have appointed a new prosecutor for organised crime and imagine miracles, the prosecutor did not say anything but shut up about this case. Since that was the case, I am sure that citizens are very interested in hearing how 200,000 euros can be obtained from their aunt in Canada and how it is possible to bring that 200,000 euros into the country of Serbia without reporting to the authorities at the border that you have entered so much money. The only way to question this is to make one survey board of MPs from all MPs so we can examine it nicely here. I know you tried everything today not to get to these points of the agenda. You're trying to starve us. Some MPs eat with their cover. I'm not hiding because the only way I'm gonna make it this long is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46031	I thank my colleague Radulovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the reason for the huge losses suffered by Er Serbia, the commitments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Etihad have towards Er Serbia, the total business loss of Er Serbia in the period from 2013 to today, the total amount of state aid granted to Er Serbia in the same period and the harmfulness of the contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with Etihad and the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Radulovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46032	Thank you, Chairman. So Er Serbia was brought to Serbia, i.e. Etihad was brought to Serbia in 2013. We were recently able to read that they have huge losses, that Etihad has and that they don't know what to do anymore. So we expect an event to happen around Er Serbia. What a lot of citizens don't know, they think Er Serbia is a self-sustaining company, that it works most normally, they don't know what Er Serbia's business really looks like. In 2013, somewhere in the middle of the year, Etihad came to Serbia. The old JAT management lost 10m euros in the first six months. Etyhad's management took over and lost nearly 40m euros over the next six months, and then began to receive subsidies from the budget after 2014 and received 70m euros in subsidies. This should be known by all pensioners, to know where that money they took from their pensions actually ended, this should also be known by educational workers and the military and the police, to know what the state is spending their money on. So, first 70m euros, then next year about 40m euros, then 50m euros. Every year, Er Serbia receives from all of us Serbian citizens huge money to stay somewhere on a positive zero, while lauding some gains. Huge losses. When we add up all the subsidies Er Serbia has received, we come up with some figures that are over 200-250m euros for this time while they are here. It is very important that the money of taxpayers is spent properly and that we have the responsibility of various managements that are placed at the head of important companies, to see how they work and that we can check that money is spent properly, that we have the right people in the right places. Air Serbia is headed by a man who has no experience in air traffic, and our professional people are on the sidelines. The result is devastating in Serbia. We expect after the big financial problems that Etihad is in which we come and that eventually they will have to withdraw from that company because it simply doesn't work. Who did this and why did this, which is why these devastating decisions were made. I, as Minister of Business, stepped down this contract on time, asked to register JAT's assets, to assess the assets, to assess everything JAT has to determine whether there is an equivalent of giving, or whether what comes through investments really corresponds to the value we have and, of course, multiple is underestimated. So it's very important that we settle this, otherwise we'll still have these pay cuts and pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46033	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the Public Enterprise of the Elektroprivred of Serbia, Belgrade, as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the Public Enterprise of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Radulovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46034	Thank you, Chairman. Well, EPS has huge losses every year in the name of unpaid electricity. So all Serbian citizens especially know, since they paid the most regularly, that the first things they do is settle all their municipal accounts, including electricity bills. Citizens should know that a large number of irresponsible citizens, mostly better financial assets, as well as a large number of companies, do not pay their electricity bills, but rather those bills are paid by Serbian citizens. So, somewhere in the last four years, when you look at EPS' financial reports, you'll see that about 150 to 200 million euros a year is the losses that result from the EPS having to write off claims that it has to make to customers that it delivered electricity, which is not paid. And imagine when you take the last four years like that, that's 600 million euros. So incapacitated party management within the EPS and all other public enterprises is producing these huge losses that we have. That's why the price of electricity is rising, which is why we have large excises that have been introduced into electricity because there's no order in place. We tried to establish order in our own time while I was in the ministry. We asked for ID cards from the company, the EPS and everyone else to figure out how these losses happen. There are other losses, let's say, losses on the power grid and things like that, and the EPS doesn't do anything about it. Now imagine what that money is, they took about 180m euros annually to pensioners, and this loss in total when you look at the last four years is 600m euros. It is necessary, then, that the committee of inquiry, because the government will not deal with this, because we have sent letters, asked both the ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why it does not deal with these and these problems. Looks like they're protecting those people who don't pay for electricity. Now, that can't be right, or it's not right. It is not right that the vast majority of Serbian citizens who can hardly put an end to the end are at peace with their accounts, and that there are privileged ones who are usually tied to the tops of political parties, who do not do so, but then expect the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that we are all filling that budget, so that practically from our taxes and from everything that citizens are detaching, these things are paid. You see, this is how order is introduced in the state, by preventing these and these unnecessary costs, by introducing order that everyone has to pay electricity bills, and then when you do, you don't have to drag your hand into the pockets of citizens and take away their salaries and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46035	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the Public Enterprise "Srbigas", as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the Public Enterprise "Serbia" began from the establishment of the company in 2005 until today, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46036	Thank you. Another public firm with party personnel at the head. For many years, "Serbigas" has been making huge losses, rising gas currents, burdens borne by all Serbian citizens, and no order has been introduced. When we were looking for company IDs, in 2013 while I was at the Ministry of Business, "Srbigas" was one of the companies that avoided delivering any data. Well, then with great pressure, me as minister, we finally managed to get some data, and they made it so difficult and the practical way it was done was when the president of Serbia, then PPV expressed favorably about these ID cards, then everyone ran to deliver the data. When he says something negative, it all stops. This is your state of affairs. Instead of having party personnel who got to run public enterprises, keeping accounts for both ministers and citizens, they're practically hiding behind politics, and what's the result? Huge losses. It is hundreds of millions of euros, which are then practically placed on the back of Serbian citizens. Let me tell you how. "Srbigas" takes, say, huge loans, so there it practically benefits for operational activity, for what they need to pay off, and then there's no money left for them to return those loans. Then what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia do? He suggests that the Assembly return all the money, that is, all the loans that the company as "Srbigas" took, by returning directly from the budget once again. Then, when you look at the financial reports and you look at the budgets, in the next four years, you see that every year and every month, the state of Serbia, or all of us citizens, is giving away money to pay for activated guarantees. Because every credit, for example, that gets the "Serbigas" state has to guarantee it, because those who lend credit know that "Serbigas" will not be able to do that, so when, of course, really "Srbigas" and can't, then Serbian citizens cover it from the budget. You see, these costs, these activated guarantees a year, sometimes 350, sometimes 300, sometimes 250m euros. These are you, these amounts are much bigger than what was taken from educators, police, military, medical workers, doctors and nurses, by this wage reduction and much more than was taken from pensioners. This is the price of a party state in which you don't put strings of people at the head of the state, but you set up incompetent party personnel with bought diplomats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46037	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – five against – seven abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the opinion committee to identify the facts relating to the irregularities in voting and circumstances which led to this and marked the conduct of elections for the President of the Republic of 2017 in the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46038	Thank you. We've been talking about this since the presidential election. A huge number of SNS votes have been recorded in the Municipality of Sjenica and we went to watch voter material, see who voted. The people, the locals, who went to watch it, saw on those lists that some of their friends, some people they know, were voting in the country at all. So, they voted people in diaspora or somewhere on the official road. We've recorded the names correctly and filed a proper complaint. What do you think happened to that objection? Nothing happened, someone put it in a drawer, like nothing happened. The only thing left for us, after we took the official route, informing the D.A. and the official state authorities, because you know how, it's not that hard to determine, we gave a list of names, it's known exactly what these people are, it can be easily checked. The police and the D.A. can easily check whether these people were in the country or not. They can ask them, say, as the police could talk to Wulyn's aunt, to discuss it a little bit, so they could, in this case, talk to people who say they voted and didn't vote. Today I also proposed a few laws, we discussed them earlier, while my colleague Arsic was trying to find me out of the O.R., in order for the agenda to pass, we talked about how this could be prevented, that through the legal proposals we made, it is possible that after the election every citizen could check, as he could check whether he was listed in the voter's list, that he could check whether he voted in the previous elections or, more importantly, whether someone voted in his place. The diaspora would like to see it very much, who's voting for them. You know that joke, when he says, a man goes to the polls, so he sits there next to the ballot box and they ask him, "What are you waiting for?" And he says, "Well, I'm waiting to see my father." They ask, "Well, why are you waiting for him here? Why don't you go home?" Then he says, "He passed away five years ago, and I see voices every time, so I can wait for him to talk a little bit." So these are the things that happen in the Shadow. These are the things that have been happening in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. This is something that is the complete disintegration of democracy. Our dear friends from the EU are told that these things support when they say – Serbia is going in the right direction. Because when you bring down fair and fair elections, you practically don't have democracy, you just have a vision of democracy. We want a survey committee that's going to examine all these facts that we've presented, and then it can be checked out, maybe we're not telling the truth, maybe we've made this all up together, and here's a nice opportunity to check it out. The protection of the electoral process is critical, otherwise why are we voting?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46039	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances that point to the link between Aleksandr Vukic and Andrej Vukic with the rightful convicted drug dealer Aleksandr Stanković, called Sale Mutavi, and the forced takeover of the luxury restaurant "Franš" in Belgrade, management rights over IT companies of the IT industry Alti/Vin-Vin, Prointer and Energosoft, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46040	Thank you. The public is known when Aleksandar Stankovic, a convicted drug dealer named Sala Mutavi, was killed at a time when a car was opened, official guns of the Republic of Serbia's MUP were found in the trunk, official ID, official equipment that was there, and then news appeared also in public that he was actually protecting members of the family of the president of the Republic. These are all the things they really require to be questioned. On the one hand, it can prove that this is all incorrect. This is a very good opportunity for the President of the Republic to show it to all citizens, that in these rumors, as they like to say about them, there is no truth, but this can also be shown differently. Also, the public is well aware of the racketeering of various companies that find another owner in a strange way and it connects with the brother of the President of the Republic. This polling committee would also be a good opportunity for a brother of the President of the Republic, along with the President of the Republic, to remove any doubts about these things spoken in public. We, of course, have direct knowledge of this, and we've filed criminal charges and this with regard to Salet Mutavi, as well as about the takeover of these restaurants. Otherwise, we see the members of the family of the President of the Republic with people coming from a criminal mile, and of course it shouldn't be happening somehow. Therefore, this polling committee is a very good opportunity to examine all these things and see if it really happened or not. So instead of the ruling majority who mention some of their committees of inquiry to question me or who, and for six years they've been saying the same thing, and they don't work on it, and they have a chance, let's do it once, because we support all of your committees where you want to question, let's say, how I worked as a bankruptcy manager in the companies where I was, what I was doing there, whether I was protecting the interests of the trustees and fighting the thieves or doing something else. So this is a good opportunity to check all this stuff out, finally get out of this amazing story where there's this same man, Marijan Risticevic, who's muddying everyone around him, with no responsibility whatsoever, and then they don't vote for their own proposals. Here, we voted today for his proposal to examine everything I've done in my career, because I'm proud of it, so let's say, let's do the same thing about the President of the Republic and his brother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46041	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the reason for the huge losses incurred by Željzar Smederevo from 2014 to today, the total amount of State aid granted to Jelizari Smederevo in the same period and the damage to all contracts concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in connection with the operation of Jelizara during that period, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46042	Thank you. Jelizara Smederevo has been making huge losses for years, especially after the time the SNS came to power and practically placed its personnel there who literally destroyed Jelizara. What citizens don't know is that Jelizara is not privatised, i.e. it's not sold by Jelizar Smederevo, but was sold at an auction by a Chinese investor. So, practically all the debts that Jelizara's rules have fallen on the burden of Serbian citizens. It is about debts, i.e. losses measured in hundreds of millions of euros. If only employees had paid their salaries, the loss would have been three times lower. So it's obvious that money was going out in some interesting ways out of the country, through some very strange contracts, where somehow for Jellyzar, the cost of raw materials was very low all the time, the cost of everything in business. So then, I'll remind you all, the President of the Republic said that he brought in the miraculous management associated with the former Yu-Es Steele, that this management would introduce an unprecedented order, that they would finally blossom the roses of the Irons. After that, we received a management that took about 340,000 euros a month for salaries from the Serbian state, 340,000 euros as a monthly profit for management. After making further huge losses, and this chief manager who won, took over, or gave him the SNS to run Jelizara is then through his companies that became, imagine, the main buyer and the main supplier of Jelizara. So, the CEO of a company that owns its own private companies through which he acquires raw materials and through which he places iron on the market, everything went through him, and after he made huge debts, he just got out of the company. Now, that would be the end of it if he hadn't sued the Republic of Serbia after that, so it looks like now we still have to pay for all that. So this is one huge ride that costs us hundreds of millions of euros again. Citizens need to know that the hard life they have, that they can't get free textbooks, that their salaries and pensions are being taken away, that there's no order in the country, that we're being led by the worst, that we're being led by people with bought diplomas, and then the cost of such a system is so much that it's just so bad...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46043	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board of work to determine whether opposition civil movements, minority parties and opposition parties were won during the elections held on 24 April 2016, stolen and registered as votes to the electoral lists Aleksandar Vucic – Serbia wins, Ivica Dačić – the Socialist Party of Serbia, Unity Serbia – Dragan Marković Palma and Dr Vojislav Seselj – the Serbian Radical Party, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46044	Thank you. This is another polling committee concerning the election process. It's very important to make sure there's no theft in the election. Stealing happens on a number of levels. It is not only a matter of men being intimidated, as we have recently seen in Majdanpek, where the jeeps are surrounded by houses, citizens taking to vote and then having to circle in fear at the polling station, it is not only to buy votes and make Bulgarian trains, but to manipulate the voter lists, it is being manipulated with those who voted, so you find people who were not in the country who are said to have voted, and it is being manipulated in the end and the election results. The basic thing about democracy is that you have free and fair elections. This will mean very well for our dear European Union friends, who support this government, because it is one of the most important things for them at home, because it defines whether you live in a free country or live in a country where there is dictatorship. The free country is characterized by free elections, where no one is pressured, where voter lists are arranged, marks a country where you have a normal media situation, where MPs, for example, opposition members can normally, along with MPs, discuss different proposals and get the best solution for citizens. The free country is characterized by free elections, where no one is pressured, where the voter lists are arranged, marks a country where you have a normal media situation, where MPs, for example, members of the opposition, can normally, along with MPs, discuss different proposals and get the best solution for citizens. Unfortunately, none of this is available in Serbia. Then we need to look at each of these choices a little bit and figure out what was really done to prevent these things from happening again in the future. We've had this situation for many years, the SNS hasn't invented these things, they've existed before SNS, but the SNS through its Pink Coalition has led this to absolute perfection. Well, when you don't have free elections in the country, then you don't have any democracy. I'm sure the SNS colleagues will want to talk about this, and show how clean they get the elections, how much they don't deal with manipulations, and that they'll be glad to present it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because that's how I would behave if I were on their side. When someone raises a question like this, I would support it, as I and the entire DJB Parliament Club today supported the initiative of Marjan Rističević, who wanted to examine what I was doing before I entered politics, whether I was stealing someone, or if I was actually protecting the interests of the workers, protecting the interests of the trustees and fighting the thieves. These are the things we wanted to talk about today, they all tried to stop us from talking about this at all, so they tried to starve, so they tried to get me out for a minute, to call me, unfortunately, and fortunately, it didn't work. So these topics are very important, this is the essence of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46045	Thank you, colleague Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Here you go, colleague Rističevci.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we should examine everything the former defence minister has been saying and doing. Before me, Sasa Radulovic spoke of it, but only talked about the current defence minister, doubting the property the minister obtained. But Sasa Radulovic has no doubt about the properties obtained by former Minister Sutanovac, who has knocked down 340 square meters, and his neighbour, behold, Balsa Bozovic. That's not what Mr. Radulovic is interested in. Mr. Martinovic, I don't know what Sasa Radulovic ate, what a barrel he was, but I think he was with some mushrooms. I am obliged to warn Mr. Radulovic that only some mushrooms are edible multiple times. I'm afraid he ran into some weird mushrooms, and something's acting, like our people would say, looks a little bit cold. Namely, if Mr. Radulovic of his organization has not paid eight hundred thousand dinars to the three ladies of the company, which I spoke of, Mrs. Stamenkovic, Mrs. Macuri, Mrs. Nikolic, if he has not paid 800 thousand dinars, I am resigning, if he has not paid off, but if he has paid off, then if he has paid off, let him resign, and whether he is willing to do so. Here, while he was milking, he tried to pull in all kinds of mice, but I know some big mice, so I'm gonna talk about one. You all know that RIK is an organ that receives complaints, Mrs. Radeta knows that. So, no Sejnica accepts objections, the RIK object. In that commission, Mr. Kradlulovi, Radulovic, there is Mr. Ninic, whom he paid dearly from the minister's register, I mean additionally, 80,000 dinars, a little cat's head, as our people say. We all know that the opposition representatives had a majority in election committees and bodies. So, if these objections were, if they were valid, if they were stolen, all the instruments Mr. Radulovic had. But on September 19th, Sasa Radulovic, let's see how many Sasa Radulovic has. One says theft, and the other says so -- stealing in Belgrade's polling stations was not, in the rest of Serbia as well. The facts are sometimes painful, the SNS election wins in the field. Who Sasa Radulovic is lying. Mr. Rancic, he doesn't need a leader, he doesn't need an election, he needs a psychiatrist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46047	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on article 82. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to see the overall election material of the 2017 presidential elections and to determine whether the election material contained anomalies and what they consisted of, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46048	Thank you. It seems to the chairman that Mr. Marijan Risticevic can talk about whatever he wants, of course, it's completely pointless, with a lot of insults. I really don't understand why you're not responding. Then I guess I can tell you what I'm thinking, too, because practically a colleague can talk about things he didn't suggest on his survey board. What is important, again, is for each election process to determine whether there really was an election theft and what kind of electoral theft was. It is very important that we do this job so that all Serbian citizens can see it. I think it is also in the interest of Mr. Risticevic and the entire ruling majority to just do these survey committees to determine that they could show that there was no theft anywhere. Something tells me that when we look at these voter lists, and the data we've come up with, it's more than clear that they voted dead, that people who weren't in the country voted when the vote was organised, that we have that big problem, that citizens know that people get calls to vote on addresses they're not at. So no one knows, those little white sheets, those lines that are put before the election in mailboxes, usually there's a large number of them in each entrance, where the names of people the tenants never heard of are. This clearly tells you that there are serious problems in the polling list, that there are serious voting problems. Then it would be interesting to see if these people, who the tenants in their buildings know don't live here, have voted in the elections. You also have manipulations that are such as to report a large number of people who report residence in the municipality just before the elections, in a way that goes by, or even though there's a limit that you can't change that place, then immediately after the election they turn it back, but this technique is used for local elections. Now, so we don't speculate with this, that as the ruling majority as it works, for six years we've been talking about one of those same things, and in the end we don't have any evidence and no one ends up in prison, we want these survey committees to work out so that we can finally say it. Yeah, we were right, there was an election theft, these are the people who organized it and ended up in jail and let's say no, we made a mistake, we claimed something that wasn't true, the elections were regular. So this is what we need. If I were on the side of the ruling majority, and it's going to be healthy, and we're going to get there, I'd adopt all these committees and then I'd have one normal discussion to prove to the citizens of Serbia that the elections are fair and fair. And hello to our EU friends who support this whole circus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46049	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the affairs related to the former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to remind viewers and MPs, Mr. Martinovic knows this, so the mention of Jankovic met with Mr. Radulovic at the ministry and discussed the parallel security service, which was allegedly set up by the DS. That Mr. Radulovic could also confirm, but when it comes to Mr. Radulovic, he says that I am muddying him, lying, etc. Here, again, I repeat that the viewers hear if Mr Radulovic did not transfer 800,000 dinars from the election campaign, which were received from Serbia's budget and were to return there, if he did not give 800,000 dinars for the click, I would give the rest, but if he did, that he would resign. Also, the elections were conducted according to the rules established by the DS, his brother's party, the thief's and the fraud's party, as he did himself, so they passed those rules and the elections took place according to their rules. So, not according to us, no electoral law, no electoral regulations, has been changed. They had most of it in their organs. He has one representative, Mrs. Radeta reminded me, he had Mr. Gajic, another lawyer, so this is what Mr. Radulovic wrote -- stealing in Belgrade's polling stations was not, in the rest of Serbia too, facts were sometimes painful, SNS elections were won on the ground. I ask which Sasa Radulovic wrote this, and which Sasa Radulovic now says there was an election theft. So, I don't have a dilemma. In one man there is a congested second Saša Radulovic, who should be resting in Vienna, in that apartment of Goran Jesic, if he is only 160 square meters small, I suggest they go to Mr Sutanovac, he has 329 or 340 square feet in the pasture, directly from the pasture, not to be compressed with such big, long legs. They can take a good look and rest. Mr. Radulovic, again I offer you, do you want me to resign if you have not transferred 800,000 dinars to the ladies to click on three of their companies, if you prove that you have not resigned, but if it is that you resign and that you are no longer burdening us here with your fantasies, neither the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46051	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances relating to bankruptcy, which is carried out over the mining-topic Bor, the cause of the huge losses incurred by RTB Bor, the total amount of State aid granted to RTB Bor and the harmfulness of RTB Bor planners, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46052	Thank you, Chairman. I will not deal with my colleague Rističević, he deals with me every time in his speech. What is really interesting to me, how is it possible that between my proposals for supplementing his agenda, because when I went to the office and handed over my 30 proposals there was no Risticevic and how did you manage to get him in between? That's really amazing. You are one miracle worker, Mr. Arsic, capable of combining such things. As far as RTB Bora is concerned, a bankruptcy procedure has been conducted on RTB Bora, where the huge losses made by management with Mr Spaskovski, led by the huge losses that have passed over a billion euros. They were practically deleted in this bankruptcy procedure, without anyone finding out how these losses were made. One large part of the loss refers to the completely missed investment of the smelter, which Branislav Mihajlović our Dr. Bora science, who has worked there all his life, can tell you the volumes and these huge losses have been made practically and everything has gone under the carpet. Major claims by state-owned enterprises have been virtually wiped out, so losses have been paid to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and incompetent management has escaped. Then, after all of this, after this huge ride, which I remind you, cost over a billion euros, and it's not just this power, it extends to the previous government, since Mr Spaskovski, just like our president of the Assembly, is a serial flyer that goes from one party to another, so this has continuity and losses were made in a long time. Finally, because of that and such party personnel, the incompetent, who got to run such important businesses, we practically have this kind of problems. We've got public debt problems, so there's pay and pensions, instead of law enforcement. The RTB Bor, after so much riding and losing over a billion euros, has been sold to the Chinese, practically wakes up why, because the reserves held by RTB Bor in Borska River have been explored somewhere at $35 billion and sold for 340 million. In addition, he bought, i.e. trying to buy Chokara Beijing, where Canadians, where the reserves were first up to about $5.5 billion, and now grew to over 100 billion. President Branislav Mihajlovic told us all about this. No state body has responded to this, and for years it has been trying to bring order there, because it knows what the resources of RTB Bor are. Instead, we are a true colony colonized by who arrives, and now the Chinese.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46053	My colleague Radulovic, before I put you to the vote, since you called me, I am not a miracle worker, perhaps only if you consider me sitting here in the assembly hall for seven hours and following the agenda, seven hours uninterrupted, just sitting maybe a little among the MPs. For one thing, even though you brought in food here, it seems to me like a cheese barrel in the congregation and hurt dignity, you were lucky I wasn't chairing at the time. In one piece, I can give you credit, at least fight for the word here in the Assembly, not as some of your colleagues, my colleagues, not just yours, have lost their patience and left the session of the Serbian Parliament, saying they have no rights. The thing is, they didn't have to do anything else but share the fate of all of us sitting in this room and participating in the work. That is why there is no order in which ye have invented that the messengers of the people should be called. They're called the order here, and now that you don't know who will be called, I think that's the only way to see who wants to sit in this room and participate in the work of the National Assembly. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Regulation of the way pensions are paid, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46054	It is precisely because of this speech that you have proposed, and I have suggested today that you be relieved of the post of Vice President of the Assembly, as you abuse your position, and your opposition colleagues have left for a reason. We just won't give you the satisfaction of driving us away, because you won't drive us away. As for this temporary pension reduction, it's a good thing that it's finally been abolished, or finally after four years of retirement, from all of our grandparents, it's finally taken back. To remind citizens of the Republic of Serbia, over 60% of pensioners did not receive a reduction, those who had pensions below 25,000 dinars, and all who had over 25,000 dinars received a reduction of 22 and 25% above 40,000 dinars. Then there was the story of how to be taken by wealthy pensioners, those others were being guarded, and practically the government watched to dissuade the pensioners from one another. Imagine the situation, a pensioner who has a little over 25 grand, that's most of it, gets a cut. And all these losses that the state is making because of the irresponsible government, not only of these but also of those before and before it, who can't, obviously, run the state, because running a state is a serious business for serious people, who know that they're not making losses and that they're making value for the citizens of Serbia, so, because of all that, practically, that reduction of pensions was to get their hands in their pocket, so that the more partial, these incompetent party personnel could feed. It's tossing your hand in your pocket so that, in the end, this new director of the Nikola Tesla Museum could throw out the man who ran that Nikola Tesla museum for years, who's probably known better than anyone else and Nikola Tesla's work. Well, did you have to push someone of your party into that institution without any experience? What is wrong is, it is good that you returned your pensions, but you took four years. There are about 720m euros, the bottom limit of the bill, although there are different calculations, since there were some small increases in the meantime, so we watched that we calculate all of this, so 720m euros you took from the pensioners, you kidnapped. We suggest that it be kidnapped and returned, for – it has been kidnapped, pensions are property, not social contributions. So then we proposed an amendment to your law, where we said that with every new pension, it should be paid to the pensioners one month of what they were kidnapped. And we're going to stay on this one until the end, so this and this legislative proposal will continue to be explained. What is very important, and today I have shown it through this whole series, the polling board, if they have suggested, how many countries waste money and how much incompetent partocracy in power actually destroys the state of Serbia. Therefore, return the pensioners kidnapped.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46055	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46056	Thank you. This is the law on free textbooks. That's what we talked about when the law was on the agenda. The Minister of Education agreed with those free textbooks, said he would do something about it, so then, of course, like all other things, he didn't do anything. What exactly is this about? In an orderly world, where most of our young people have escaped, so that children who are fleeing our diaspora are created in different countries, America, Canada, in EU countries, but also in Russia, even in Botswana, the state recognized that education is the right of a child. What does that mean? Well, if it's a child's right, then you can't burden your parents for something that society has given the right, or textbooks should be paid out of the budget. When you look at it like that every year, parents barely make ends meet, in a country where we have a huge problem with Natalie, where we have a problem with not having enough children, the state doesn't encourage education, but it makes parents get out of such low wages, often pensions from grandparents, separates 15-20 thousand dinars per month to get children a set of books. My kids went to school in America for the first few years. America is the most capitalist country in the world and imagine, you take your child on the first day of school, take him to school, and the child gets a set of textbooks there. This is done by the world's most capitalist country, this is what many EU countries do, this is what Russia does, and I mentioned, even Botswana does. And then the question arises – can we pay for this? One rational system of using these textbooks is that they are obtained by passing from generation to generation, so the child takes textbooks, works for a year, then transfers them to the next generation, and only those textbooks that the child destroys, and that happens, parents have to pay. And for those who are normally preserved, with normal wear, there's no payment. After four years, typically in a cycle, you change textbooks and buy new ones. If such a system is established, the textbooks are changed for four years, the total cost per the budget of the Republic of Serbia for all children in primary schools, which has about 560 thousand in Serbia, and for all children in secondary schools, around 260, would be 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Let me tell you again - 0.23%. Therefore, if you collect these masts and New Year's lights and these wonders around Belgrade, you could pay for textbooks for all children. So education is the right of a child and here's a chance for us to do so in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46057	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46058	This is the extension of this point I was talking about. We often hear arguments that there's no money in the budget for what we're proposing, that free textbooks are a privilege, that the state can't pay for it, and when we look at all the things that money is being thrown at, it's more than obvious that this can be paid. If we say that ethnicity and that children are a priority in Serbia, which they are, or should be, then we should allow parenting to be maximumly supported by the state. So, not only textbooks for children in primary and secondary schools, but also for preschool education, since studies show that this segment of education is also very important, where children are introduced into school. The cost of this, the cost of all textbooks for primary and secondary schools, as I said, for 560,000 children who are in primary schools and 260 thousand in secondary schools is 0.23% of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Subsidies are being thrown at a billion euros a year. This takes about 20m to 25m euros a year. As I explained, these textbooks are passed down from generation to generation and change about every four years. A system like this can be established. This is what Serbia never had. We had some paid textbooks for some categories. What we're saying is that education is the right of a child, that education must not depend on the economic strength of parents, and we should be practical here, we can easily find those resources that are needed, that all children get free textbooks and then maybe we can foster parenting because there are a large number of young couples who want to have children. They have, of course, couples who don't want to have children and this doesn't apply to them, I'm talking about those who want to have children. If you make a system so that the state helps raise these children, removes the costs that can be taken away, which are the costs of textbooks, the costs of kindergartens, we will practically encourage these people, because they know that the state takes care of them to have children. It's the best measure to fight the fall of Natalie. Another thing, citizens probably don't know, Serbia's textbooks have been turned into a very profitable market and imagine 60% of the textbook markets in Serbia are held by German publishers. So most of the textbooks for all the children in primary and secondary schools are written by German companies, and then it happens to us to forget the 100th anniversary of the Thessaloniki Front breach. It's very important to introduce free textbooks. That's something the budget has to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46059	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46060	Thank you. That citizens understand that so many different proposals, and the subject is very similar, so we have a few laws, we have a basic roof law that covers all kinds of education. After that, special laws for primary and secondary schools, so hopefully somewhere in these laws, the ruling majority will light up and say – Let's support this. So it's about free textbooks, that all our children in the diaspora, the vast majority of them, because they usually go to Western countries, but also in Russia and Botswana, they also have free textbooks, and then it'd be good to have our children, who went abroad, where they get free textbooks, to even these little ones at home with them. You know, the average household income in Serbia, where you often have pensions coming in, means not the average salary, but the entire household that it earns, about 60,000 dinars. I know a lot of people sound too much and it's true, because statistics are a little biased by those who report incomes, not those who work on black and often get less than that. But this is official statistics, if we were to use some other numbers, we'd be attacked to speak contrary to what statistics say. So we have to use this amount of 60,000. Well, now imagine that family that feeds, say, four, having two kids, how do they pay for those kids' textbooks? A set of textbooks cost 15-20,000 dinars with accessories that go along with it. Look how much the bags cost to the students. When you add it all together, and you see, all possible excursions, all where kids are being taken, everything you have to pay for during the year, then it really turns out that the citizens of Serbia and these families who are raising children are actually miracle workers who make something out of nothing, because mathematically it's impossible to cover it up that you can practically send children to school with your incomes. This is something Serbia can solve, this is something Serbia has to solve. There is enough money in the budget for this, it only takes 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget to cover this. Look at the subsidies. The government throws a billion euros a year. Well, he should only separate some 25m euros from that large number and practically cover free textbooks for all children in primary and secondary schools, or textbooks paid from the budget. Otherwise, that textbook market is so high, the prices are so high, as I was saying earlier, the German companies control that market, most citizens don't know, so if the state took over, then the prices of these textbooks would fall significantly. So, give education to be the right of every child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46061	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46062	Thank you. This law concerns preschool education. Since we think that education is the right of a child, we think that staying in all preschool institutions should also be paid out of the budget for all children in Serbia. They often tell us this, but there are families who are not socially endangered, who have large incomes, why pay them that, too? Well, so they don't make a difference between kids. So that those children whose parents can't pay would not feel less valuable than these other children whose parents can pay, and in fact the difference between the burdens that parents from more wealthy families can bear is made in the tax system. These families that earn more, should pay more taxes, because they finance a general system with higher amounts and then, by doing that, you actually do this social justice, not make a difference between children. Now, we have had many examples where parents, especially in Belgrade, are charged kindergartens at much higher prices than the law itself predicted. For years, they paid kindergartens much more than they were supposed to pay, because there's a bill that says that parents only carry 20% of the price, and in fact, that 20% of us think we should stop that all kids should get places in kindergartens. Then, with our help, they had to sue their country often to get that right to be only 20%. This was launched under previous rule in Belgrade, this problem, so parents paid a lot more, so it continued under this authority, at one point interrupted. However, the city does not return this money voluntarily, but parents have to sue. It's very important to get a few key messages out of all of this. If, indeed, if we really say and think, we stand behind these words that children are our future and that investment in children is the most important, then we need first of all to make education available to our children, to make education a child's right, to have the right to have a place in kindergarten, to have a child's right to get free textbooks and that no one can endanger that right and that the economic power of parents can in no way affect the future of a child. This should be done for all children in Serbia and practically bring them all into the same position as I said, many of these things exist in the regulated countries in the West and Russia and Botswana, as I said, and the story of not being able to pay for this is simply not true. I'll remind you again of the subsidies, the state throws a billion euros a year on activated guarantees over 400 million, we stop riding, there's money for textbooks and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46063	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during the exercise of the power of Vuk Jeremic, in a people known as "The Wolf of the Seeds", Sasa Radulovic did well. He's here rebelling from where I'm between his two exhibits. Now, there's two of them, and I'm telling you seriously, there were two of them, one of them was an election theft, the other was a hard one, there was no electoral theft, and apparently there were 14 of them. According to the list of companies he ran in bankruptcy, there were 14 of them. Dear grandparents, dear grandchildren, here are your free textbooks, here are your pensions. During the rule of the former regime's party, "The Wolf of Seeds", Gilas and the team, Sasa Radulovic welcomed everything they did not rob. What does not take the privatisation of the party of the former regime, it welcomes and shares the "stretches" and elaborates and transfers the money to its firm, as a fairy tale for bookkeeping services. A little godfather's honor, but the time has come, no more bankruptcy, he's left the godfather, he's been abandoned by party buddies, and I believe he'll soon be abandoned by pets. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at least our viewers know how to make peace with the trustees and the company recovers and the workers keep their jobs. No, he didn't do it. He was looking to make peace with himself, the best man, the close family, and they were recovering. I recommend this lucid or ludicrous type of man that his president, Bane Mihajlovic, who bathed the miners with cold water because he found it done by the Germans, in the Bor mine, I recommend that he pour this cool water next to him. So it's the only drug I can recommend to Sasha Radulovic who won't accept the offer of resigning me or him, obviously that I was telling the truth. Why was he shot from the minister's post? Here's the e-mail he sent 17. In November 2013, Mr. Vucic; "Pull the order to dig through the bankruptcy I worked in. “ So, grandparents and grandkids, he wanted to mask the theft he had committed and when he failed, he was shot from the government. One more thing, he says, I don't know who Radulovic wrote this: "My and Cvian's parliamentary group will certainly be part of the future ruling coalition, because the IMF and the Americans set Vukicu as a condition for the promised $500m budget support, he was forced to accept, just as he had to accept my appointment in August of last year, so willfully. I'm supposed to take over the reunited Ministry of Business and Finance. “ I don’t know which Sasa Radulovic was saying this, but apparently this country is too serious a product to fall into the hands of such bankruptcy characters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46065	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46066	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, very briefly, in the end. I'm not defending power. I wasn't the government. Sasa Radulovic was the government. I defend the state, the state of Serbia and its right to exist, to defend the state from these characters who drank blood on the people's straws, their eyes from their heads. That's why I'm saying this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-16-0.u46067	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the privatisation of the Duvan industry and the involvement in the then state summit led by then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs of former President SO Smederjevska Palanka Radoslav Milojic and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Construction Products, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Air Traffic, Railway and Water Traffic, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Passengers in Road Transport, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Membership and Registration of Ships, Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on Maritime Viewing, Proposal for the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Republic of the European Union. Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstention – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstention – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, in general. I ask the National Assembly to prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Construction Products Act, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposals for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Transport, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State ownership and registration of vessels submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, which was submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary in the area of infrastructure projects submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 82 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Dusko Tarbuk, Aleksandra Jerkov, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic and Ivan Kostic. We are moving to work on the established agenda, i.e. on a common principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 10 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the sittings are invited to attend: Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Aleksandra Damjanović, Miodrag Poledica and Imre Kern and Zoran Lakicevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Jovanka Atanakovic, Djordje Milić and Zoran Milić, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Veljko Kovacevic, Lazar Radaković and Saša Stojanović, Deputy Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Mirjana Cizarov, Director of Civil Aviation of the Republic of Serbia, and Bozana Lukić, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on proposals for the agenda under points 1 to 10 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the time to discuss parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform review on: Proposal for a Law on Construction Products, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Dangerous Goods, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Traffic and Air Traffic, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Travellers in Road Transport, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Law on State Belonging and Registration of Ships, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Transport of Passengers in Road Transport, Proposal for a Law on the Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport, Proposal for the Law on Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport in Roads of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport, Proposals in Roads of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport, Proposals of Transport of Transport of Transport, Proposals of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport and of Transport and of Transport in the Governments between the Governments between the Governments of the Republic of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Republic of the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by Professor Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
