ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37766	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 62 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall and that we meet the conditions for further work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic and MP Djorđe Milicevic. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first speaker on the list is MP Muamer Zukorlic. He's not here. The next speaker is Tatiana Macura. (Not present. ) The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37767	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Governor Tabakovic and his associates, Minister Djordjevic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law on interbank fees and the specific rules of business in payment transactions based on payment cards, given that the provisions will be applied daily to citizens' behaviour and relations resulting from the use of payment cards. I'm going to try to get the citizens a little bit closer to this topic so they know what the benefits are when using payment cards. Therefore, payment cards as a payment instrument are increasingly used, as citizens are now recognising their advantages in relation to other payment instruments, both in the EU country and in our country. This is why there is a need to particularly regulate business rules, as this will encourage further growth of this type of cash-free payment, but on the other hand, the interests of payment card users will be protected and a fair match will be allowed. Payment cards offer numerous advantages, both for payment card users on the one hand and for banks and traders on the other, but ultimately contribute to the state and society in general. Payment cards are used for paying goods and services, raising money on ATMs and identifying account holders. They provide continuous access to money on the account, ease of payment, and increasingly popular is the possibility of paying on the Internet. Another advantage is that there is no compensation for the execution of these transactions, as regards the payment card user. As for their security in the event of a loss or theft of a payment card, immediately upon application, the publisher will block it and thus the user will save the money, which would certainly be lost permanently if that money was stolen. Dealers who accept card payments increase their sales volume, and on the other hand reduce the possibility of being victims of robbery, fraud and similar crimes. As far as banks are concerned, those through the work of issuing payment cards have additional revenues, in terms of different fees, but at the same time reduce the cost of handling almost money, reduce the size of the gray economy and maintain the stability of economic growth. Positive legislation does not regulate these payment card transactions, and in particular interbank fees have to be arranged, so the adoption of this law is also necessary for this reason. Certain shortcomings seen in practice will be eliminated, the imperative norms will regulate matter of great importance, above all for the citizens of Serbia. As a special goal of passing this law, I would like to encourage the use of payment cards, and in this sense that payment cards are increasingly used in some other cities, not only in Belgrade, because if we take into account the analyses carried out, in Belgrade, the percentage is 60%, while in other cities is significantly lower. For example, in Nis it is 5%, in Novi Sad 4%, in Kragujevac 2%. Here, as a positive thing, I would highlight the positive effects this law will have on our citizens, which followed the agreement with traders and banks, which mainly relate to the reduction of commissions, i.e. the reduction of costs in general. Finally, I would like to invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support in the voting day all proposals that are before us today in the principle debate, as a form of supporting the government that is leading a good policy and in this area, as a form of support to Mrs Tabakovic, the governor, who has achieved fantastic results with her team. I believe that further NBS measures will only be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37768	The next speaker is Ambassador Marko Djurisic. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37769	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Mrs Tabakovic, and on the previous day, when we started discussing the set of laws from the jurisdiction of the National Bank, it seems to me that my fellow MPs in the absence of arguments or not knowing about certain laws, and from the former regimes, they always prefer to be caught by public debt, for how it came into existence, and even my colleagues from the former regime, so glum, with great sadness, to ask how much the public debt was on December 31st 2011, how they were successful, how it was at the border that it was passed by the Budget Law. Always in this one game of numbers will not be completely honest with the citizens of Serbia. Is public debt just what the state officially owed on a capital market or is public debt what it accepted as a commitment, not providing funding sources, and that obligation has created? That's not what they're gonna say. That's not gonna happen. It's not in their interest. They won't say another thing -- where they spent 450m euros, say, from NIS sales, and they're telling us how small public debt they made? The sale of NIS was sold state property. I don't understand how they don't realize that money was spent and they didn't earn it. They're still hiding like a snake's foot where the money from Mobtel's sale was spent, and they won't be honest about it. The biggest investment by Jjeh, they say, amounted to over two billion euros for the period 2008 to 2012, and they call it direct foreign investment, and I do not want to say where the two billion euros ended, as the investment was the sale of private capital. They will not say that these two billion euros ended up in neighbouring countries and in the former Yugoslavia countries, mostly in Bulgaria, one part in Bosnia, one part in Slovenia. That's not what they're gonna say. They won't say they owe about 40 billion dinars for subsidies to agricultural producers, and that's a public debt, just not shown in their tables. When they ask the question how public debt has grown to these fantastic 76%, they will not say that a billion and 700m euros have increased debt to loans they have raised in dollars, to exchange rates, and that will stop. They won't even say we spent nearly four billion euros on paying off their loans, and that's not going to happen. They won't say that they spent a billion euros, which the state had to cover, through Vojvodina and Agrobank Development Bank, and you'll refuse. In 2012, we had a state that had to pay off its adopted commitments regularly, but the question arises, and from where? Also, funding sources for the state are the real sector of the economy. They will refuse again that 400,000 people lost their jobs while they were in power. Then they will ask a very rude question – how the public debt has grown, and they will not look behind them as they have made it. Now, I understand that someone who doesn't understand public finances, you know, you tell him – that was so much at the time, today is so much, explain the difference, etc. But this is about people who and how well they know what happened in Serbia from 2008 to 2012. It's the ultimate insolence to ask one such question from people who know what's been going on. When we talked about this economy, they tend to mention that countries in the environment have a greater growth of gross products than Serbia. I don't share their opinion with them, but I do know something else, that every penny of privatization of property, in a direct or indirect way, ended up in countries in the environment. We have funded our capital, which we have sold out, other economies and other countries. What was it doing in Serbia in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012? Only the service sector and the banking sector, through which the capital that has been available for decades has been spilling across the countries in the environment. We found an economy that was on its knees and was exhausted, someone is going to say - the global economic crisis, however, there is, but in much, much smaller scale. We had an economy that was exhausted by the galloping rate of the euro towards the dinar, we had the economy and the population that were exhausted by the high inflation rate, we had the economy and the population that were robbed by green interest in banks. Then they say, "Behold, you are in power, you are in charge of the country, you are in charge of the land, you are not in debt, and they have made commitments, they have left the country in total ruin." Mrs. Governor probably remembers that in 2012, when they accused you of printing dinars without cover, how you would sell out foreign exchange reserves, how you were controlled by banks, and not to say any more things that were political, like we're going to war with the whole world, etc. And so, I wouldn't say that inflation would be as record-breaking as it was in 1992 or 1993, and now, as a rule since 2012, everything they say, the events have denied them. They even have so much courage to say that the course of the dinar is held artificially. I'd like to see that artificial way when the dinar course is stable, and your foreign reserves are increasing. Let any of my colleagues in the former regime explain to me, that, according to them, the perpetum of the mobile. Let him explain and explain to everyone here, including the citizens of Serbia, how 1.5.2% of inflation is greater than 12, 13, 14, or 16%, as it was when they were in power. Or let him explain how it is, the interest on short-term loans in Serbia today is 10% to 12% in dinars, not indexed in euro, or another currency, and in their time it went up to 36%, how is that 12% greater than 36%? I have a feeling some time when they start talking about profits and public procurement by the Central Bank, that they receive money from which they receive newspapers that publish such articles, because I know, as soon as some such article appears in the papers, that the Central Bank has encountered irregularities in the business of a particular bank and that they would try to stop the identification of these irregularities and responsibilities, certain articles are paid. Do my fellow MPs, for some similar way, of their discussions here, get any funds from someone? They have not learned for all these years that citizens in the elections do not measure what they say, but measures the results of the government, which recognise the difference between the former DOS parties, which led Serbia until 2012, and the government, led by Aleksandar Vukic from 2012 to his election as President of the Republic. Learn that already. I remember that at that time, I can say freely, as an opposition, one of the party's presidents said, from the former DOS, he apologized to the citizens that his party committed abuse here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and during the election vote, it seemed to me, the governor of the National Bank, that the subject was very similar, and based on that apology and acceptance of responsibility for the error, that man later became both the president of Serbia and exercised power. I expect my colleagues representing the former DOS, the former regime, at least once apologized to the citizens of Serbia for everything they did to them while they were in power. Maybe then the citizens will start listening more seriously to what they're saying, and maybe because of a dose of honesty, someone will trust them. About these stories about how money was printed, how money would be printed, how big inflation is, how the money is held administratively, and all economic indicators say otherwise, they're no longer trusted by anyone. It doesn't seem to matter to anyone anymore because they now have a stable life, because they know if they have a loan of what the war will be when that loan arrives, not as during 2012, when the entire salary was paid for one war of credit, when foreign reserves were sold close to five billion euros to save the dinar from 76, 77 to 119.80. That's how long it's been since the governor's current governor's office at the National Bank, 119,80, is today a lower course. These are the results, and don't be surprised, it's not a fraud, it's no setup, it's not a lack of democracy, you have even more than we are in power, because a lot of things we feel for you and we don't want to go into any pointless discussions. These are not the results of SNS and Alexander Vucic's success in the elections, but the results it achieves when the state is restored. These laws also require a very important area in the functioning of the state and economy, the financial sector, not completely under control but to lay down clear rules for banks to function under. And these rules should neither be more stringent nor milder than they are in EU countries. Only in this way do we have fair conditions for those who provide financial services and for those who receive financial services. And that's the only way we can secure an even match, as much as possible, between, especially when it comes to payment cards, big trade chains that have systems to protect themselves from banks and small ones, and even enterprises that should also have their place under the sun. Knowing what the financial sector was doing to the Central Bank, at certain times even the state, required a certain amount of courage and let go, first wrote, and then released into the procedure of the law. These laws absolutely bring order to the market and create a fair match. And no more businessmen, no more consumers, no more service providers to be the victim of a desire to create extra profits that we have raised in one part of the banking sector. Someone might say we should have passed these laws before. We may have, but there is always one question – whether the law should be passed in a hurry, any kind, or whether one serious analysis should be done, write down one serious law, which will have as little inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its implementation. Because, on the other hand, you have financial institutions that have top lawyers, top experts, who are going to try in any way to prevent the implementation of one of these quality laws and to ruin a good idea and a fair intention of the legislator. And you should have considered that, too, when you were baselessly critical of the laws that are in the process today. The laws may not, perhaps, but certainly, be at the right moment and will certainly encourage all these reforms that both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the National Assembly that enables its laws to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37770	Thank you. The word is Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37771	Thank you, President. Here, unfortunately for me, it seems that I was right when I gave that assessment that Mr. Sinisha Mali would actually be Prime Minister, de facto Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, because if he were Minister of Finance, he would be with us here today in the Assembly, deciding and discussing, not deciding, but simply explaining, the Assembly decides, we MPs decide, on a very serious issue, which is the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. So he's probably looking at us over little screens and probably his team decided it wasn't good for his first appearance to be on this particular subject, which is borrowing. When we look at the structure, I'll talk about the point. 8, 9th and 10th concerning borrowing, loans signed by outgoing Minister Vujovic, who, coming or coming Minister Mali thinks it is not important for him to come to the Assembly and discuss them with us, amounting to a total sum of 408 million. When you look at the structure of these loans, which Serbia is taking over or which you, or the ruling majority, will approve, of these 408 million 84% of the funds are intended for development policies, public expenditure, for public enterprises. All 10% is intended to support state-owned financial institutions, and indeed a minor 6% is intended for the development of health care. This cut shows how the ruling structure leads one policy. This isn't social policy. The budget of the Republic of Serbia and new borrowings are not distributed in the interests of citizens, but puts first the problem of restructuring public enterprises, so to speak. This government has not since 2012, been able to launch a development policy, although this maximum amount of 343 million loan has just been launched for problems created by the wrong development policy and public enterprises. It is not enough for the government to reach a conclusion ordering "Srbigas" to suspend the supply of gas to those commercial consumers who are late. Dusan Bajatovic tends to say that the problem of "Serbiagas" is precisely what he runs social policy, meaning, which delivers gas and riot payers. However, the government's task, which was set up during its term of office by the Serbian Development Agency, so-called. The RAS and regional development agencies, is another way to start Serbia's development, which is to extract Serbia's economy from depression. Of course, I'm talking about the economic meaning of the term "depression," because economists, counterpart Kovacevic, if I remember correctly, mentioned Friedman, Kanza in his presentation. I belong to another economic school of opinion that expresses concern that new borrowing will solve the problems that administration and result from borrowing. counterpart Arsic tried to justify a high level of public debt in Serbia. economic theorists, to be quite precise, really say that growth in public debt may not be so worrying until the moment that the share of this debt in GDP is growing faster than economic growth and is growing faster than inflation. Indeed, Governor Tabakovic managed to control inflation, which is the biggest fear of Serbian citizens, you know that fear of hyper inflation that we all remember very well, and we know how he was restrained. Governor Tabakovic mentioned political will, but the economy cannot be cured by political will. The economy can be cured in such a way as to invest more in consumption, i.e. to start consumption of citizens, and you know that this government insists on tightening citizens' belts. I think there's that mistake, which is actually a matter of political decision and will. In the end, even these 25 million that will be invested in health development, I don't think they'll be enough. It's only a crumb in the total mass of this new debt, it's only 6%, and here's citizens around Belgrade will remember that not even donations, because this new loan mentions the purchases of new medical equipment, linear accelerators, CT scanners, magnetic resonances, but you'll remember that recently there was a sign in Kaludjerica, so these mammographers were bought from a Japanese donation, the sign was that the mammographer would not work until further due to the digitisation of the apparatus. So, all this stuff that's being invested in e-Health, the e-equipment, unfortunately, won't produce results for the benefit of the citizens because there's no home-made good care about equipment, resistor, people, or patients.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37772	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. (Veroljub Arsic: Replica, she mentioned me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37773	I thank the chairman. Well, first of all, let's explain to the public that Mr. Sinisha Mali is now in the formation of his cabinet, so for the simple reason, he couldn't even come, since he's only on his way here with his associates. These are some laws, proposals for the ratification of loans, which have long been prepared and what we need to say today, is that these loans refer not only to the support of the "Serbigas" budget, and if we are going to talk about "Serbigas", then we have to be honest with the public until the end, or we will increase the price of gas and burden on schools and hospitals, or we will leave in this part of funding from the budget, because it is very important that hospitals and schools always have gas when it is necessary, because, above all, people living because of their health in the hospital and their employees and children going to school should not pay for the past, which is why loans are raised for "Srbigas", which are now very difficult to pay. What's important is that when we talk about loans, we can't put them all in one place, so let's just say, here's the deal. First, we return those loans that some once raised with interest rates of 8.3%, and we take loans that are below 2% with large payments, or grace periods, and they are very dedicated. In addition to this for support, when we talk about EPS, "Srbigas" and traffic that is at 20 years, nine years is a grace period, when we talk about a loan related to the financing of state-owned institutions and that is what is important, restructuring of the Post Office, the Development Fund. When we talk to the Serbian Development Agency, its essence of work is to help the private sector, not to help the state sector. So, in order to start a business, you need first of all to help private companies create new jobs, to improve their work. Finally, the loan for health development in Serbia, which began three years ago, consists of several phases. So 29 million started buying accelerators, that's over. But the second phase that follows is reform, in fact, and better support for the quality of the health institution, and that's the second phase. The accent has been placed on the oncology centres, for cancer-treated centres, especially when we talk about Vojvodina, of course other centres in Serbia and optimization of the health care home network, which is very important that digitisation as a process that should primarily be introduced into health institutions and schools in Serbia. This is one type of entry into health care facilities, and we get a better quality of health care. Therefore, today's loans that we are talking about are precisely showing the purpose of these loans to improve the lives of Serbian citizens. When we talk about the growth of public debt, because here now we have to keep repeating why there is a difference between 15 billion and 24 billion, so it should be said that there is no real public debt at all, so the IMF has gone and refused to talk to Serbia. So what was kept on some of the balance sheets and accounts of public enterprises was never shown in Serbia's budget. What was left of 128 loans was 1.4 to 1.5 billion euros a year, only interest from 2012 to today. There are many reasons why public debt is not shown at all. That's why the IMF agreed after 2012, when it got a good political partner in the form of SNS and Mr. Vukic as prime minister, that it could talk in an extremely realistic, honest way with Serbia, and with its political leadership, and with people who run the National Bank, such as Governor Tabakovic, who also participated in negotiations when it comes to the IMF's arrangement. This is why we are talking today about NBS's inflation results, which in 2012 was 12.9%, and already in 2013 2.2%. Today it moves in European parts that range from 1.5% to 2%, we have 1.9% today, so the stability of the dinars at all today is much higher and cannot be said at all that the time before 2012 and today is the same. They're completely two different concepts of the economy being run. When we talk about the NBS results, we should say that because of the efficient use of foreign reserves, we today have a significant increase in foreign reserves. Of the gross reserves, which amounted to 409 billion euros, we are talking about 10 000 550 billion euros in reserves today. So these are the results. The nbs' reference interest rates used to be 11.75%, they're 3% today. So we're talking about dinarisation, as one of the instruments models, today in Serbia's economy, is a dominant notion that all citizens are meeting and even the loans they raise in dinars are much higher because they are much more favourable. Therefore, what needs to be pointed out, that these financial laws are now proposed, the essence of giving citizens of Serbia the opportunity to simply enter into digitalisation in the financial sector and to improve their quality of financial services for which they will decide for themselves. It's a simple market. So far, we have two million users when it comes to using the internet and e-banking at all, and this is actually an idea with this legal proposal and the application of cards and new obligations that banks will make to themselves rather than break over the backs of Serbian citizens, in fact that this number of people who use e-banking doubles and thus we all make business more fundamentally easier, and of course it will make business easier for business operators and employees. Financial security, when we talk about financial security laws, about fees, about business rights, about payment services, shows that the National Bank for the first time now introduces stricter criteria for the business of banks on the market. This means that it will establish one list, in fact of its banking derivatives each bank in particular, and you will be able to enter on the National Bank website for every bank where you are a depositor, to know exactly what are the services that it can charge. We have had the opportunity to hear on the Finance Committee that, say, banks have no right to charge fees for closing accounts and this law was adopted in 2014 and the rule is respected. But the banks do what they do, they do it illegally. Each deposit is required, if it has an obligation to follow it, if it sees a single bank doing so, it should simply fold the tab, write and sue and inform the People's Bank that it could respond adequately. It's a simple job for each of the depositors to have these kinds of visions, I'd say for the use of banks who think they're very strong here on the market and that no one can do anything, that simply this transparency is shown in the public how much they're actually going to introduce order, and also help the People's Bank in some way introduce stricter law enforcement at any moment. When we talk about amendments to the Law on the National Bank, it should be said that the National Bank has received new powers relating to the law that we adopted on foreign exchange business and, accordingly, all these changes relating to the law show that one continuity in this implementation of the NBS policy and shows essentially that a good business environment, not only of banks, but also of business and companies that are interested in investors from both the West and the East, is recognised. What has not been so far, the NBS has in the past four years introduced even new four currencies that can be changed in the foreign exchange market. What is important to say today, this set of laws is indeed for the benefit of all of us, and I think that we should really also have parties who will not agree to it, because they are in opposition, that they should simply raise their hands and vote in favour of such a law, because it simply paves the way for good economic policy in Serbia, the improvement of the banking sector. Finally, the Serbian Parliament adopted negotiating chapter 33, which concerns financial and budgetary provisions, for Chapter 9 - financial services and for Chapter 17 - economic and monetary policy, which shows essentially that Serbia is moving forward with European integration, especially in this sector. In the voting day, of course, we all here will support this set of laws, because we believe that this really brings benefits to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37774	The word is Anna Stevanović. She's not present. The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37775	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, the Honorable Governor, for the amendments and the additions to the Payment Services Act, and I will refer to the other laws, if that time allows me. The amendments and additions to the Payments Act will allow better information for citizens, better information for payment service users, and good information is the basis for protecting the rights of users, i.e. citizens' rights. The biggest problem today is that citizens, in this case, cannot make comparisons with the prices that banks offer as their own service, it will change because this law will allow citizens to become more familiar with their rights and protect themselves. The National Bank of Serbia is hereby authorised by law to establish a list of representative payment services related to a payment account that will be the same for all banks and which the bank will still have to give as mandatory information, i.e. to the user, as well as all other information for each service individually, so that whoever wants to open a new bank account can easily choose the most favourable, or best bank. The law defines the bank's obligation to provide a minimum once a year to the client with a bill of charges, it is also a newspaper that when someone wants to change the bank that they will be able to do it in a much simpler way than they have done so far, it will be enough to just contact the other bank whose client wants to become and that new bank will have an obligation to carry out the whole process on the basis of the authority of that person in connection with the change of the account. The application of this law will create competition on the market, because it will now be very soon able to change the bank if we are not satisfied, of course, with the services it provides, so that all banks will work harder to keep clients, which means better quality, better service and, of course, lower price. For the first time, it is possible for those who have not had an account in the bank to use modern payment services, e.g. electronic banking, because each bank will be obliged to allow the consumer who has a stay in the Republic of Serbia, at his request, to open an account with so-called. basic services. The law also gives the National Bank of Serbia the opportunity to determine the amount of compensation to banks for the service, and it can also be prescribed that this service be free of charge for those who are socially at risk. All these new provisions of the law will allow as many citizens as possible to engage in financial flows and to encourage modern services to be used in the 21st century. This will lead to a rise in cash-free payments, which, of course, has a reduction in the grey economy. Another good news is that if the citizens are now to pay the money by mistake to the wrong jury account, the banks will have to provide all the necessary professional assistance and return that money to the user's account as soon as possible. Also, I just want to say in a few sentences about the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services at a distance, because I think it is very important, because it introduces special protection for users who are physically not present at the time of conclusion of the contract, if they use the Internet or mobile banking. Protection defined by the law will encourage citizens of Serbia, i.e. users of financial services, to the mass use of modern means of communication. In Serbia last year, we managed to cross over one million mobile banking users and the application of this law will allow the number to grow more and more in Serbia every day. So all these laws that are on the agenda today are exclusively in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I call on all fellow MPs from the post and opposition to support these laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37776	Thank you. The word is Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37777	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see no reason for panic on the other hand, I see reasons for panic among Serbian citizens. I see reasons for panic among Serbian citizens because this best government, with the best budget, with the largest surplus in mankind's history, is again in debt to 225m euros. The 225m euros, citizens of Serbia, will be paid back by you and we and our children. Dear friends, 25m euros, I'm saying this because of Serbian citizens, it goes for the development of health care in Serbia, which is fine, 160m euros goes mainly for failed public enterprises where the failed directors from the ruling party, which is six and a half years in power. Of course, there is nothing more than for directors to choose from competitions, of course that party personnel are being placed and, of course, the gaps in these companies' budgets are getting bigger and bigger, of course, that you, respected citizens, out of your pockets, out of your empty pockets, will pay in the years ahead of you these borrowings and this ignorance of the ruling furniture to manage both public enterprises, so to the ministries, so to the state and all the institutions in this country. Forty million goes to reform financial institutions. Instead of reforming financial institutions, I propose that employees in financial institutions have no salary of 500 and 600,000 dinars, while Serbian citizens work for 22,000 dinars. Are people doing a responsible job supposed to have serious money? Yeah. Should they have five times the salary of the Minister, the President of the Republic, the Director? No, I don't. Should they have ten times the salary of a school principal? No, I don't. Should they have ten times the salary of nurses or five times the salary of doctors? No, I don't. It's incompatibility and inequality. I see that the previous speaker from the ruling set was inspired, so he said that in 2012, Serbia was in front of bankruptcy. Dear friends, this is the seventh summer, the seventh year he manages SNS finances. You're saying we were facing bankruptcy in 2012, with a debt of 14.1 billion. All right, we accept that argument of yours. And what are we now when the country's debt is 26 billion, nearly 11 billion euros in six and a half years' worth of SNS has been in charge of Serbian citizens, so what are we now? We're not in front of bankruptcy right now. I'm sorry, I'm coming from the village, and if the local has grain or has corn in the basket, he doesn't go to the neighbor to borrow that corn, he's got enough, he's not going from the neighbor to borrow 100 euros to pay for the electricity, if he's got home money. Why if on the one hand, you say, the state of the budget is great, that the state has never been better, that the finances are great, why do we have new, new and new responsibilities all the time? How do citizens live? They live by having more expensive fuel than in Germany, over 170 dinars. We have a situation that you've cut agricultural subsidies from 12,000 to 4,000 dinars. At the time of the yellow ones we were bad, as you say, the subsidies for agriculture were 12,000 dinars, with the price of fuel being 80 dinars, and the euro was 80. At the time, you say, good ones, is a subsidy for the agriculture of 4,000 dinars, the euro is 118 and the fuel price is 160 dinars. How do you think a farmer can make ends meet? You've collected the price of electricity, you've collected the price of fuel, you've reduced subsidies for farmers, you've kidnapped pensions, you've reduced your dailys to cops and soldiers, you've reduced your wages, you've kidnapped 50 billion dinar local self-government by six years of government. Only last year, five billion dinars were taken away from all local self-government, and why? Well, to show that the government has some kind of surplus and that it's doing well. You know, the way people see if they have money and if they live well? So there's how much money in the wallet, fuel in the tank and food in the fridge. On this basis, it is seen, not based on your false statistics, that unemployment has been reduced in Serbia. Yes, but because you've introduced the modeality that if one day in a month a man works, one day he's being kept busy. So if you have an appointment to come to the desk at 12, you come in at half one, you're off the list and you're on your way to work. That's not true, go outside and visit a little Serbia, and I visit it every day from Surdulica to Subotica and see how citizens live and if they have the money to send their children on a field trip. Do they have money to pay for electricity and basic needs. I know it's funny to you, but it's unfortunate for Serbia that State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Nenad Mijailovic is buying a 400,000-euro villa. Of course, that's sad for Serbia. You say what you've found, what's left for you. Dear friends, in 2000, the average salary was 30 euros, we raised it to 200, and from you we inherited the land. We had to return the old foreign savings. We had to pay back 13 back pensions that you remained in debt to the citizens of Serbia. We had to return 12 children's supplements, we had to return Telekom, we had to lift visas and return the country to the UN and to normal flow. It's the result of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37778	Thank you. Right on the replica of Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37779	Interestingly, when someone was talking about who owed local self-government with four billion dinars, paying salaries through a football club, talking about how to spend the budget and how to run household finances. It's interesting that I'm talking about the 84-euro course, maybe he was actually paying some 84-euro rate, but that course was in 2005. So the course, it's true that it ranged from 84 to 123 it even varied by 2012, and the NBS ran one ultimate commercial policy, so that some banks could only deal with it and some individuals. So it all went through the citizens of Serbia, through that budget and through foreign reserves. Then foreign reserves were 400 billion euros, and today they are 10,550 billion euros. So there's a big difference. The public debt talk of 1.5 billion euros left us only interest on the large loans you raised and you were sure to do something in the state, or to pay your salaries, pensions, and that's why you raised your loans because no one wanted to work with you anymore, because you issued building permits to investors for 300 days. Because you've kept the exchange rates hidden in the NBS' special accounts. Because you paid 750m euros from the privatisation budget for the companies that were paid back, so they called the companies in restructuring and because you made a certain decision to the military pensioners, abolished the practically pension with pensions that were not from the military area, and made a debt of 22 billion dinars in court judgments. It didn't all go into public debt, but when certain financial institutions come, then they say we want to see how much you really owe. Then you have to put all the debts that stand in the final accounts, that is, in Serbia's budget and then normally that public debt has to be bigger, because that is the difference between those of your capable managers, the politicians who led this country and who showed that it is the easiest thing to do, in fact, to run the economy until they say -- well, enough is enough, while no one will help you anymore, while simply Serbian citizens remain in a situation where they can't accept salaries and pensions. That's the difference between you and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37780	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Goran Kovacevic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37781	Not getting into the assessment that we are experiencing and what our perception is about how Serbian citizens live, which is a different perception because it is someone who is an opposition politician and someone who is a politician in power, certainly has a different perception. Essentially, this perception and why we find ourselves in different positions say Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens have made it clear in the 2012 elections that with an election result of over 50%, Aleksandar Vucic carries changes in Serbia, is someone who deserves and has full support for Serbian citizens, including economic reforms. It's important here that we talk about clear and clear indicators. As for macroeconomic parameters and what we hear very often, the NBS Governor says, she also says, the Prime Minister also says, the MPs say, but also the IMF, the World Bank says, all relevant world institutions say, and in contrast to that opinion, you have the opinion of one group of MPs belonging to the opposition political party. Public debt is 59.9% of the general state of the Republic of Serbia. So this is such a great result to be measured with historical success, 59% is the public debt of the Republic of Serbia at the level of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So when you look at all these macroeconomic parameters, then you can understand that debt, indifference, the problem with Serbia's budget is far behind us and Serbia will take loans for investment and development in the future. When you take a credit of 0.75% at the interest rate and use the fact that the eurobor is down today, then it is time to use liquid financial resources that you have on the financial market for growth and development. It was wrong when you took 7.8% loans in the previous period and choked Serbia's ability to develop in the future because such high interest rates could not be serviced, and all of them were actually funded by election results and personal consumption. These are completely different concepts. Politics is one thing. The economic parameters of the second thing. Of course, the SNS is both for politics and for the economy, and that's why we do it well, and we have citizens' support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37782	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37783	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so a man has a chance to get some support from citizens in local self-government where he's from. Then leave those citizens without water. Then he charges those citizens in billions, and there are some accidents that end up in the Serbian Parliament at one point and salty intelligence for people who have hired more than 180,000 people for five years in Serbia, who have opened over 90 factories led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who have led Serbia to the point that it has a surplus in the budget today. The people who kept the exchange rate stable. People who started attracting investments in Serbia not only on one side of the world, the other or the third, but on all sides of the world. People who haven't ruined Jellyzara and brought her to the point where five thousand families are insecure, that she doesn't know what she's going to give the kids for lunch tomorrow, as my predecessor says from a failed yellow company. People who have done exactly everything and do everything and we will only make children in Serbia see the perspective. Their parents see it today, and so today they choose to stay in this country to work in it and to make families. That is why as MPs, we too support everything that is on the agenda today, as representatives of citizens, because we know that it is good for people. We're with these people every day. We take citizens and talk to people. We know how people live. We know that there are also people who are having a hard time living in Serbia today, but this is the result of a failure in general that we attended from 2000 to 2012, so we talked about the course of the euro. Here, let me give these experts a little bit of a hand in this course debate. Let's say in 2001, when they formed their first government, the course was 59.7 and when they left 118. Well, who's crazy here, who's professional and who's unprofessional, says the results. Four hundred thousand families, four hundred thousand people left with no future, no perspective. They shut down their factories, their jobs, and who was good? Well, it was good for the tycoons, because Serbia was then a tycoon-mafian state, where even those politicians didn't ask themselves anything, in which tycoons twisted their ears and told them – masters, you'll do it and you'll do it, you'll sell it like that and never answer to citizens where the billions of dollars of privatisation are? Where's the money from the Serbian citizens? Where's all the stuff that was sold in the privatisation and went? Well, it went into private pockets. Well, how is it possible for someone to come to power in one of the only shoes, in one shoe, in one jacket, and out of it in villas, expensive cars, and Serbian citizens living worse and worse? How is that possible? There, somebody explain it to me. (Radoslav Milojic): How can you be in power for six years? ) Here comes a man of expertise, probably, with shoes of over 1000 euros. We're talking about lunch, and he doesn't even know how much lunch it costs. It's a story of 150 dinar buns. Let him show us where that 150 dinar bun is. Where it exists.? Maybe when they're implanted, all their friends in that bucket, maybe it comes out 150 dinars, but here, go to Kosovo Street, it's not more than 30 dinars. Today, thank God, we have a responsible authority, people who are ready to always undermine their interest in the general interest, and citizens recognize it. That is why Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have record support in Serbia. This support will grow, because we will have more jobs and more factories in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37784	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. The word has a national emissary, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37785	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, reading the draft laws we are discussing today, this set of laws in the area of finance, can be seen that your old good practice of harmonising Serbian legislation with EU legislation, i.e. with European legislation, continues and that it is almost fully aligned with the EU and that it continues with the devastating euro integration policy. We need to make the laws in accordance with our legal system, to be applicable, not to pass laws just because it's someone's condition and because we have to give it to someone. Most of these proposed laws represent changes and additions. For example, the proposal for a law on companies, which has about 600 members, today you change about one third of the members of that law. Wasn't it better to pass a whole new law? We Serbian radicals believe that it is necessary to bring completely new laws, not non-stop, that we have various changes and additions and that it is necessary to bring primarily applicable laws in practice. In explaining, or explaining the majority of the members of these draft laws, we can note that they are identical to the members themselves that should be explained without concrete explanations, so we wonder if you have lost the text, because you have no justification, or why such legislation is needed and what will be achieved. Then, we Serbian radicals submitted a number of amendments to which we asked for the removal of certain members and thus made it clear that new laws, applicable laws, laws that protect the interests of all road users and laws that will be done more effectively. I would also point out another problem, which is that we have a united debate on all points of the agenda and that we will not be able to discuss these bill proposals in an adequate and quality way. That is why I will focus the discussion on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Business Society Act. The changes provided for in these amendments and additions are freely said to be more than cosmetic and to particularly care for the heirs of the deceased members of companies, as well as the allocation of funds within these companies. What is most important and what should be paid particular attention to, in this set of proposed laws has been completely deleted, i.e. it has been abandoned and no mention of the trustee's rights in the cases of the liquidation of companies or their bankruptcy proceedings is mentioned anywhere. In fact, here the proposed law only takes care of trustees in case everything works properly and where not one word prejudges any economic malversions that we've been exposed to for years. What I'm saying is there's no word on the protection of trustees in cases of liquidation or bankruptcy of companies. So, absolutely no one's words. I would remind you that for years, we have been all witnesses of the fact that in many companies in any form, whether it was a limited liability company or a company or a command company, which was made possible by a state which was, in the most cases, a trustee, that they were taking grant loans, then subsidised loans by the state, that these companies immediately after receiving the funds that had been shut down, went into bankruptcy or liquidation at the end, and that no single dinar had returned to the state nor through the credit wars, nor through production and services, exports or similar economic activity, had already acquired funds from those companies, selling property or withdrawing cash in different forms of money laundering. Of course, the bankruptcy state couldn't charge a single dollar. The only people who could benefit under such circumstances were some of the bankruptcy managers, who provided their skilled malfeasances with wealth. It wasn't just the state that was at a loss. Such companies have made over 55 billion dinars out of the state through this kind of corruption behavior, which is from the very state, which is from damaged creditors, then other honest companies, entrepreneurs and individuals. What is evident is that the bill, or law that you will adopt in no segment, does not help creditors to protect their claims. I will provide an example of a limited-responsibility company building "Belgrade on Water". So it's an active company that has the basic capital of a hundred dinars. You can check that on the APR website. Now I ask you, how is it possible to charge the trustee from the bankruptcy of this company, if he goes into bankruptcy, if the capital of that company is only 100 dinars? And by the way, there are no other security records written down, and, let's say, the state-owned company has provided him with projects, works and services worth over a million euros. Then, on the other hand, we have unfortunate private entrepreneurs who are responsible for their business, not only by the property of their company and their personal property, so when they happen to be in a situation to be deceived by some speculative company, the state immediately sends them judicial and private perpetrators, and then loses not only work and enterprise, but also a roof over their heads. Next, you say you want to speed up private entrepreneurship. You want to speed up the young people to open up entrepreneurship. Well, gentlemen, first of all, apply equal rights to everyone, not to keep letting thieves continue to steal incessantly. They no longer steal as they used to, yet cannot be said for the chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, Mr Meh Omerovic. They're stealing in the fridge, and the gentleman's stealing. ) Young entrepreneurs, i.e. entrepreneurship, only mention them in election campaigns, and when they pass, you leave them at the mercy of various vultures. I would also point out, and that would end up, if there were elements here of the violation of the Constitution, because not everyone in the chain of economic activities is even on the market. Someone's got to make a concession or tighten the rules for everyone. We can't selectively apply the law and help someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37786	Thank you, colleague. The word is made by MP Milena Corilić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37787	Dear Vice President, the esteemed governor with associates, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, I will briefly refer to some aspects of two legislative proposals that are interlinked and related to the area of payment services. This area of banking business with the emergence of the Internet, modern electronic communications means, which allow the rapid flow of real-time information, has seen a huge expansion. Today, there are virtually no banking clients who do not use any of these services, or have debit or credit cards and use them in everyday life. It is therefore essential that this area be precisely regulated, both in the direction of creating greater security for the users of these services and in the direction of creating better, or healthier competition among the banks themselves that provide payment services. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on payment services brings a number of newspapers related to the area of payment accounts. The National Bank of Serbia will be empowered to prescribe a list of at least ten services related to payment services for which fees are paid. The service provider will have to notify the user of all payment account related services at least once a year, but the most significant change carries the addition of Article 73i, which will open the possibility of users of these services to make it much easier and faster, without complicated procedures and formalities, changes in the providers of these services, i.e. selecting another bank where they want to open a payment account within only five working days. Most of the work, which relates to the exchange of personal data and data on balances in accounts, will be carried out by banks in mutual communication, making it safer for clients to seek out those service providers who will offer them more favourable conditions for opening an account, thus affirming the freedom of choice and the principle of competition in business. On the other hand, the bank will also receive certain benefits which are reflected in the more clearly defined possibilities for the termination of the contract with the user in the event that he uses the account for illegal purposes, or if no transaction is made in that account at a specified time. The proposed changes and additions also provide for co-operation procedures with EU authorities and provisions governing the area, which will apply after Serbia's EU accession. The proposal for a law on interbank fees and specific rules of business in payment transactions should, on the basis of payment cards, provide for more detailed arrangements for interbank relations in this type of transaction, thus providing for maximum amounts of fees for interbank transactions, as well as for two or more payment brands to be included in one payment card. What should certainly be commended, in the proposed legal texts, is that they clearly state the principle of banning the discrimination against clients, which is particularly important for us pensioners. It is still not a rare case that older citizens are not rarely placed in a more unfavourable position than others when it comes to illegal charges of various fees, difficult or even completely impossible to obtain longer-term loans and loans, or not to meet in the long-term wait in the ranks. I hope that by applying the proposed changes and additions this practice will be reduced to a minimum. In view of the fact that in the future more and more financial transactions will be carried out this way, that it is a trend clearly manifested in developed countries, with the possibility that the money that we know today will almost completely push us out of traffic, then the adoption of these legislative proposals is a significant priority in the direction of creating more favourable conditions for the business of citizens and the economy and the acceleration of money traffic, as well as the reduction of the grey economy. Because new solutions provide a better relationship and position for citizens, and especially for older citizens, the PUPS Group will support all laws on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37788	The word has Vladimir Djuric. He's not there. Jasmine Karanac has a word. Here you go, colleague Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37789	I thank the chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic, respected ministers Djordjevic, co-workers and colleagues, we have before us a set of proposals for important financial laws that provide financial protection to banking clients, better said to all citizens because in the modern world, you will agree, there is no citizen who is in any way unrelated to banks. Whether his salary or pensions lie through his account, or they're private or large companies, then individuals who carry out their financial transactions via payment cards or electronics, whether they're citizens who raise credit. So, banks are our inevitable, and it is therefore important to systemically regulate this area as best as possible, so that citizens who are in any way connected to a bank are sure that they are well protected by law. For example, by adopting these laws, citizens will be able to easily compare the fees offered and charged by different payment service providers, and all data will be available on the NBS website regarding the price of payment services on the Serbian market. In the future, banks will have an obligation to provide the users at least once a year, free of charge, with a report on all fees paid for payment account-related services. The law provides for and facilitates procedures for the change of banks where citizens and businesses have open accounts. In this way, it will be enough for the user to contact the new payment service provider and empower him to transfer all or individual payment services from the previous one or that, if the user so wishes, shut down the previous account, which has been much more complicated and complex so far. This also encourages competition between bank service providers, and any competition is welcome for customers. By adopting the Bill on Payment Services, all institutions providing these types of services will have to make clear the amounts of their fees in order to easily identify consumers for those most favourable. We also heard data from the NBS who brought out the governor, that only last year were 208 complaints about the payment services provided, and the largest number concerned the current account. These complaints relate, above all, to opening, keeping and shutting down current accounts, as well as paying fees. The proposed law plans to introduce order and price for these services and a simpler procedure for shutting down accounts in one bank and moving to another bank. It will now be faster, simpler and without unnecessary administrative requirements. It is also a good suggestion that in the future if someone steals or abuses someone's payment card, the owner of that card will only be responsible for 3,000 dinars, and all responsibility above that amount will be borne by banks that will have to compensate for their loss. This benefit is provided for by the Payment Services Act. With new solutions, citizens' responsibility for an unauthorized payment transaction with 15,000 dinars is reduced, as I said, to 3,000 dinars, so that those with low incomes would not bear too much expense, on the one hand, and that banks would offer better protection for the use of payment instruments, on the other. This provision encourages banks to invest in the application of additional security measures in order to reduce the number of abuses. There is also a proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, which improves the protection of users in case they are provided with financial services via the Internet or mobile phone. In addition to protecting citizens, this law encourages digitisation in the financial sector, i.e. users are encouraged to conduct financial transactions, such as, say, payment of accounts, in electronic form. One of the proposed laws, which we are discussing here, is also intended for cheaper card payments. Namely, the draft law on interbank fees will limit the cost of payment, first of all, payment cards. The fees prescribed by payment card issuers depend on what amount will remain to the trader after the customer pays the service with a card. He's installing those expenses at the price of the goods paid by the customers. The new legal solution provides that interbank credit card fees cannot be higher than 0.2% of the transaction's value, while the interbank credit card fee cannot be higher than 0.3% of the transaction's value. The limitation of interbank fees opens up the possibility of setting up a post terminal, under more favourable conditions attracting new consumers and positioning them better on the market. These are all solutions from which, when adopted and consistently applied, citizens will have financial protection and these solutions are in the interest of all Serbian citizens and I therefore believe that they should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37790	Thank you, colleague Karanac. The word is Miroslav Aleksic. He's not there. National MP Marijan Risticevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37791	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the country we found was a completely abandoned and abandoned state, with no chance for the present and future generations. Today it is those who have filled their pockets and who have left us with all these problems, those who have created "Agrobank", who have then few and have not been enough, who together with the bankruptcy managers have robbed this country, who have founded a long new "Agrobank", so that they can continue to rob, those who have left us "Vojvodine Development Bank" in ruins, today they tell us why we have not solved the problems they have left behind faster. So those who grew up four years over 50% today are not satisfied with monetary policy. Today, when the savings of the dinar grew several times, when the foreign savings increased, when the structure of the foreign reserves was much more favourable, when imports were covered by a higher rate of exports, when it was almost 80%, unlike their 53% or 54%, when GDP growth was neither from services nor from trade was based on the sale of capital, it was not based on the lending of money on expensive interest, so other people's money was bought for money. Today those whose main production was long, today those who didn't know how to make money, but only how to spend it, today they tell us not to solve the problems they left fast enough. We solve their problems degrees by degrees. No sudden solutions. If you want to skip five steps at a time, you'll probably get stuck and broke your nose. You must be patient, worthy, dedicated, like most of you on this side. I want to support these laws and leave my colleague an opportunity, so as authorized, I'm going to deal with these issues a little bit deeper. I want to support these laws and make it clear, and I'm leaving the rest of the time to my colleague, who is behind me in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37792	Thank you. Bojan's bag isn't present. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37793	Thank you. As for these laws that are on the agenda today, first of all, a few words about this law to cut the fees for interbank transactions. There's really no way to find a grudge. I have to tell you that from personal experience, buying in small-scale shops, with this problem, I've been running into myself for years and it was literally a situation to beg me not to pay for certain goods with a card. The other goods can, but that, please don't, because the margin is so low, and the fee for using the payment card is so high that they stayed down. So that's something to say goodbye to, with that grudge that my other opposition colleagues have already mentioned on Friday, why have we waited so long? In the debate, Governor Tabakovic noted that the public debate lasted an extremely long time, apparently several years and that it was that all interested parties could express their opinions. When we talk about all the interested parties, of course, the most interesting sides are probably the banking sector. To me, the right to tell you, it is more like a long-standing urge of the banking sector to accept this reduction in compensation. Let's make it work. But I'm sorry to say that for so long a number of years we've put the interests of large-scale capital ahead of the interests of small-scale family companies, which, I say again, is better than ever. We have a lot of big objections to the three laws that are here in the package. These are the Financial Security Act, the Banking Act and the Business Society Act. The law on financial security and bankruptcy are linked to each other here and again, what I see through this change is that the interests of large capital are put ahead of the interests of Serbian citizens. In her address Friday, the governor said, among other things, that this set of financial laws is very modern laws, which, among other things, aim to attract more serious foreign investors, which is somewhere to recognise that current foreign investors are not among the most serious. I don't agree with that. That might be true if this country were in some other state. I think what's the prerequisite is for us to be a legal state. If you have this set of modern laws in a country that is not legally regulated enough, in which the impact on the judiciary is incorporated into the Constitution, which we should change soon, then this set of laws does not bring modernization, but puts us at risk to re-enter some kind of corrupt activity, because our judiciary is not strong enough that with these elections, it is not independent enough, again to be citizens, especially those who work in bankruptcy companies. When a company goes bankrupt, it means that its debts are much higher than the income it generates, i.e. That she owes a lot more than she manages to earn. Debtants, first of all, are workers who have often not been paid for years of internship, then various suppliers, private companies with whom he has contracts, but this firm, you know, isn't completely naked. She has something, she may have some production, though insufficient, and she has primarily valuable assets. When it comes to bankrupt companies, when out of a bankruptcy mass that covers what is being incomed and that valuable property, it should somehow calm down all creditors in equal honor, then it is only responsible that the state can do to give priority to workers in the first place, to connect them with their work experience and to pay them off at the minimum-level, because everyone loses in bankruptcy, and then the rest of the money is settled by other creditors. What we have in the vast majority of cases in this corrupt society, where years ago, money was being taken out of the company in bankruptcy, just by the way one trustee settles, and everyone else is high, and it is one that is politically connected, and which perhaps also affects some corrupt actions to end up being so. As you know, the head of my parliamentary group has had enough of Sasa Radulovic's experience with bankruptcy. While he was the finance minister in 2013, he proposed amendments to the Bank's Banks Act precisely by always making peace with the workers first, paying their profits and connecting their work experience, and then by the bankruptcy that remains, not all go to the trustee, but all to settle equally, as much as possible, so as not to make a priority over someone. The bill also strictly banned, even predicting that criminal punishment for what we now have in the National Assembly as a bill, which is to open up the possibility of some of the short companies showing up overnight, buying out claims of bankruptcy companies, taking all the property, and leaving workers to check out and stay out. This is irresponsible. Of course, the market is important and it is important that we have a strong market economy. However, it must not dominate, it must be balanced with responsible social policy. We cannot, on behalf of large capital and declared, cobayage, market economy, which is actually state interventionism, leave workers at large. In that sense, the parliamentary group has had enough to oppose the adoption of the Financial Security Act and amendments to the Bank's Banking Act in the way it is foreseen here. As MP Risticevic is already waving at the Rules of Procedure, I expect the attacks on Sasa Radulovic, who was the bankruptcy manager, are now going on. I have to tell you that I'm proud of him for everything he did during the bankruptcy proceedings, because in the first place they were workers, connecting their employment and paying off their earnings, and then out of the bankruptcy mass, an equal distribution to all creditors, and because he didn't succumb to the influences of large capital he got into trouble among corrupt creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37794	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've all heard, this is therapy for Su Djok...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37796	Just a member, please, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37797	Article 107. Reiki. Here is Sasa Radulovic, whom assistance is indicated by persons who do not have a license to do so. So, it's a surreal treatment. The lady before me took part in this and could have had the knowledge that, let's say, Sasa Radulovic was not the finance minister, as she claims. Gentlemen, Sasa Radulovic was the minister of economy. I can call it the minister against the economy. That's how he acted, and that's why he's been replaced so fast. The consequences were probably for him mental pains being treated by Dick's treatments on behalf of authorized faces. The lady told one truth. In bankruptcy they all lose, only one wins. This one was called Sasa Radulovic and at the same time, look at the wonders, now you are MPs at the same time in 14 parliaments or that you are governor of the National Bank in 14 national banks in Europe, imagine that you are in 14 government ministers. That's not possible. One person can't be in two places at the same time, but with Su Djok therapy you can be in 14 places at 14 fat firms, not those skinny, bankruptcy manager, to make up for yourself, your best man and your neighbor. I just wanted to warn you that Sasa Radulovic wanted and wrote that the Americans, I showed you the email, would make Alexander Vukic take him as finance minister, to be a double ministry, to be for business as well. I apologize to the Americans for not taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37798	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I can't tell what you were talking about in the best possible way. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Branko Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37799	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103 of the 7th and 8th century, which says that if the MP appears in the Rules of Procedure, and then abuses it, as was the case now, because we had absolutely no explanation that you injured the Rules of Procedure, but we had a brutal manner in Sasha Radulovic, neither guilty nor debtor, the head of my parliamentary group, the Rules of Procedure stipulates that you should withdraw two minutes from the scheduled minutes to discuss his parliamentary group, so I ask you to do so. I'm asking you to do that in the case of my parliamentary group, because I have to say one sentence about therapy, which is that I recommend acupuncture therapy to the previous speaker for the problems of which he suffers, but only voodoo bluntness.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37800	I don't think I hurt you. Please don't turn this debate into an alternative form of medicine. Mr. Risticevic talked about it, even resented me for hurting the Rules of Procedure. I didn't even remember his name, so I'm asking you to continue in line with the debate that's been going on so far. Thank you very much. Col. Stamenkovic, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a national envoy, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37801	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed governor, respected ministers with associates, in this assembly debate, our citizens can hear who is the third pillar of stability, which, apart from the Government and the President of the Republic, is responsible for visible and undeniable economic development. What is certainly the recognition and evaluation of the six-year work of the National Bank of Serbia, headed by Mrs Tabakovic, at the establishment of, more precisely, adequate monetary policy, is the news passed by the world's most creditworthy media agency, Bumberg, which says our dinar has been the second best currency of the world in the past year. The assessment is so much more important since 2012 Bumberg dinar rated as the fourth worst currency. The strengthening of dinars has positive effects on both the citizens of Serbia and the business environment, which is today stable and stimulating, thus also attractive to investors. Investors invest when the investment environment is predictable, stable, and when we add that the economic and trade ties with abroad are strengthened, we get a competitive economy and new jobs. When we analyze domestic economic indicators, macroeconomic and other conditions that are created, we have guarantees that growth will be sustainable and that is capitalisation of everything that was done in the previous period. In this year, about 3.5% of the economy is expected to grow dynamically. The confidence of market operators and their business in Serbia tell us that the economy has healed, as business plans are planned in the long term. This set of draft laws that are before us bring about an improvement in the business environment in the part relating to payment card business and online trading, where the economy will significantly reduce costs, then protect the users of financial services in the sense that the relationship between the user and the provider will be more transparent and that the comparison of services can be done before the choice of financial service providers is decided. This law refers to the services of all participants in the capital market, i.e. investment and other funds. Protection concerns both citizens and farmers and entrepreneurs. This bill clearly and unequivocally regulates the obligations of financial service providers and the rights of users in remote bargaining, which contributes to greater confidence of citizens in the application of modern bargaining techniques, such as electronic trade and electronic and mobile banking, thus reducing the cost of financial services. Also, users will be protected from providing and charging services they did not ask for. It is also possible that, in the case of a distance contract, up to 600,000 dinars, the user may give consent to conclude the contract by using the two-factor authentication method, or the method used to issue a order for the execution of payment transactions in electronic banking. What will certainly please our citizens is the introduction of an instant payment system, the most modern payment system that currently exists in the world, which will allow citizens and businesses to make their payments 24 hours a day for seven days a week throughout the year and that the recipient will receive cash in just a few seconds. This system will allow more use of the most modern methods of non-cash payment, as well as to enable mobile phones to be paid at prices that are more favourable than the cost of payment card transactions. The use of modern 21st-century services creates conditions for the growth of security payments, leading to a reduction in the grey economy. Madam Governor, congratulations on the results so far. I wish you and your team a lot of success in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37802	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go, colleague Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37803	Thank you. Proposal for a law on interbank fees and specific rules of business in payment transactions on the basis of payment cards and two of my questions and one proposal for clarification concerning only these laws, among all those who are in this united principle debate. Therefore, it is a proposal to remove suspicions about the newly introduced Article 9 and the dilemma whether or not it existed in the public debate, whether the draft law was adopted after the debate in the Government or not. In the principle debate, it seems to me that it has not been explained in detail, that I am not disputed either last year's time course at a public debate, not until May of this year, but there is the opinion that Article 9 was not in the process of public insight, and that member, along with the laws on payment services, obliges the licensed banks to issue all their payment card users for whom the authorisation, clearing and alignment is made, how professional people use the transcript in our language "switching" for domestic transactions is done locally. Thus, the member aims to introduce domestic transactions, issues and acceptors located in Serbia, i.e. after the law enters into force. So that's all my question, because I want to remove all my doubts, since people who know about financial laws are much better than I am are left in the dilemma of how this Article 9 will be applied, and how does it apply in law? So would this mean that all international payment schemes would be forced to first establish a legal person in Serbia, then get a license from the National Bank of Serbia, to qualify as payment system operators, and to establish domestic infrastructure for the authorisation, clearing and alignment? If this means Article 9 then my second question – what is your assessment, does it reduce, increase, leave the same ability of international payment schemes, especially master card and visas in an equal match in Serbia for financial services? So if it stays the same, then why are we introducing this member? If it decreases, then why should we introduce a member who reduces the possibility, that is, the literality of international payment schemes to participate on equal terms? And if it remains the same, then the question remains again – and why are we introducing this member? Part of the dilemma and doubts that have not been diversified, and I think it would be useful for them to be in this response, because it serves as a parliamentary debate, to leave beyond any doubt, nor to argue, nor what I think is done with a bad intention or not done, there are simply dilemmas in professional circles, therefore, this member is not part of the process or harmonisation, nor any international requirements, formally we have declarations of compliance, I know that these statements are given out of place for any domestic economy or financial sector to form it in laws tailored to its own needs, but whether, if this Article 9 is such that it will reduce the ability of the international payment scheme, if it is on the verge of competitiveness and fair and free market, do you expect the negative impact of a member of Serbia's 9th financial services market, whether it restricts competition or not? Does it violate the principles of the open market or not and whether it is contrary or not to the principle of free movement of services and capital from EU legislation and in relation to payment and competition? It is my question and suggestion that much more public than I do, I have looked at and read more times and looked at expert opinions and I have my own position, which may be changed by the attitude and obvious facts that the governor will share with us, but much more important than what I will think about Article 9 is more important what he will think, both members and experts of the financial sector in Serbia, as well as international payment schemes, or licensed banks operating in Serbia. They're serving this parliamentary debate, I'd say. So is there freedom of movement of services and capital, does it violate, endangers EU rules on state aid, does it make it difficult to develop the market for innovation, etc? It's in the general place, some of the objections that part of the public had, which has communicated much more with you than with us, and that says that most of the objections have not been established, which is a bit of a shifted perspective. So public debates do not serve to accept all the objections you hear in public debates, but they also do not serve to reject them all or interpret them badly. As the whole process is relatively fragile still, it is good that in this parliamentary debate all dilemmas, doubts, about what is actually changing Article 9 in this law, and that it is simply not unnecessary to be subject to speculation if, by my assessment, it is either included in the time or calculated that, not that there will be no same situation or negative influences, but in some parts of the licensing of banks, foreign banks, or international payment schemes, will be better for the financial market in Serbia. I have one question coming up, possibly, out of the agenda, but it doesn't come out of the subject, and that's my question forever, the Foreign Exchange Act. I have also asked this as a parliamentary question, and I would like to thank the National Bank of Serbia and some other institutions in Serbia, who, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, within the deadline and, I will not say it in writing, but I will say it in writing, to the Members of Parliament, who, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provide answers to parliamentary questions. Namely, I received your answer to the parliamentary question about why in the Foreign Exchange Act we restrict the right of people to open foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts. What I pulled out of that answer, that it was armed, I remain on my claim to shorten that deadline. There won't be any harm in entering and shortening that deadline and letting people open foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts. But for the past 10 years, this member of the foreign account owners has passed, I think, all kinds of evolutionary movements between institutions, structures in the National Bank and structures in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, a few words only on the proposals of the law on the confirmation of the loan agreement under consideration at this session, which are loans from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and on projects for the reform of state-owned financial institutions, for public expenditure development policies and for, thematic, public expenditure management, for public enterprises in the energy sector and public undertakings in the transport sector, etc. For these three or four, including the second Serbian Health Development Project, I have no question and no dilemma about how loans occurred and how they will be, but I have a suggestion. People in Serbia do not know everything and why they spend, use loans, or loan agreements, especially the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. As uninteresting as it may seem to the media or as uninteresting as it is in the Assembly or the Committee on Finance, it is my assessment that, if nothing else, it would be uninteresting to make public hearings on which both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy and the users of the National Bank, but also the governor of the National Bank, therefore, would devote a few hours to giving accurate, clear and transparent information to people in Serbia on what the money of European taxpayers was spent on, as a grant, as a very favourable agreement on loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, even, I know that there have been direct payments to the budget, which was extremely unusual but it happened, because it is, I think, a common interest and would help people who are rightly suspicious and untrust in what the EU is currently representing, because they also have difficulties, that they will see with themselves what will be, and how it will only have the necessary policies of the EU, that the EU, in order to help of which is necessary, the EU, the EU. This, of course, does not apply to the law which is the subject of my request for further explanations and clarifications, but I think it would help, because people would then understand that the way of partnership for the EU, not only in the financial sector, is tangible, clearly expressed in figures and clearly shown in which all sectors in Serbia are being invested. I am pleased to do everything in the area of finance, so that the chapters that have been prepared, then braked, and then returned, may go into negotiations and with even more effort, with the idea of abolishing and disarming, may be unexpectedly quick for many and closed. Although, in principle, they stay there at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37804	Thank you, colleague Komic. The word has the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37805	Here, I'm going to start with this which requires shorter explanations, which is a complete liberalisation of the movement of capital in terms of opening foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts. With existing changes, we are part of what was needed and possibly liberalized a month and a half ago, two. We have armed this full liberalisation without any restrictions at the time of EU accession, because it is responsible and rational. I ask only one question – and what would happen to that moment that is not right now, because interest on savings and interest in money at all is currently spent in the European Union, means, negative, zero, in Serbia, money is still being earned, both on dinar savings and on foreign exchange. But what if the normalisation of the European Central Bank's policy, in which there may be positive savings interest rates and at some point someone thinks it's better, safer abroad, doesn't matter if someone puts in a riot and if there's really no reason to do so, but imagine that 10 billion with the torment of created security and savings at one point finds themselves completely free to take out somewhere else and that same money is coming back to Serbia for investment through some other channels. Whose obligation is it to take care of that? Each country has done a full liberalisation of capital flows only at the moment of accession to the European Union. The National Bank of Serbia, along with the Government and the Ministry of Finance, is obliged to take care of the balance of payments, its sustainability, and that is why the formulation was handed down for a moment of accession. What's more important, is the essential question, I'm going to basically open it now, you've asked me, and I'm going to ask all of us and answer both you and the predecessors, was Article 9 a subject of public debate? To tell everyone, Article 9 implies that all transactions, to be the most reasonable to everyone, related to netting and final clearing and alignment for domestic card payments, whether domestic or foreign, are performed in the state of Serbia. This means that Article 9. We prescribe the obligation to settle for domestic transactions between two residents, two citizens in Serbia under the supervision of the National Bank and other state bodies, which has not been the case so far, regardless of whether they are paid by foreign cards, issued by domestic banks or paid by home card issued by domestic banks. I repeat, 97% of card transactions are in the country and between domestic clients. Only 3% are carried out outside, and over 80% of these 97% are calculated, i.e. clearing and settlement abroad. You're asking me if it's harmonisation, which we want to ensure the security of the payment system in the state of Serbia? No, that's normalization. Harmonisation is what all countries in the EU have done, what all countries and those who are on their way to the EU are doing, which is that they have a alignment in their own country and in their own system, i.e. an insight into the security of the payment system in the work of card transactions. I mentioned the case of Bulgaria, which, although EU member, has its own system called Borika. Slovenia has a special three system via the institution to which it gives the license "Bankart" is called, one of these systems is in the jurisdiction of the Bank "Intesa" San Paolo, whose final alignment is also carried out at the National Bank of Slovenia. So every state wants to ensure the safety of card payments and to ensure that any kind of unilateral act or problem that could be a side card scheme. Should I mention that Friday, while we discussed this, the entire EU was completely blocked by the fall of card schemes and Mastercard and Visa. I'm not publishing any secrets, I'm only talking about the fact that they're writing all the financial, all the media and question that in the hands of a small number of people and systems, the centralization of a huge number of transactions has been carried out. I'm not even going to mention the case of Russia, which had to build its own new system of peace because of sanctions and a unilateral act to block Mastercard and Visa International Payments. We are talking about a solution in which the state of Serbia must take responsibility for the security of the payment system carried out in domestic payment between residents, regardless of which card scheme it is involved because of the banks that have the Serbian state license, we are monitoring them, and we have to monitor that part of the card transactions, and we have shown that in many areas we are able to do so, if not better, just as well as others. They ask me why we've been waiting for this, I say normalization, and you say harmonisation? For more than two years, we have been negotiating in terms of public debate, no, persuading those who need to understand that time has changed in Serbia. Don't mind my rudeness, but that's true. Many forgot to read the laws after the 2012 state of Serbia. I think of stakeholders who are used to writing laws by some lobbyist centres reading the wishes of special groups, writing laws in their interest. This law is proof that this time has passed, and that we wanted to talk openly about every detail and solution with foreign card schemes, with banks, it is evidence that five months of effective public debate, and that for two years we have been talking about this law for more than two years. Why aren't we early? Well, the European Central Bank also went to a limitation of interbank fees in December 2015. For those who love bankers and those who don't like bankers, I only have one truth. The bankers say, "Well, why don't you wait for the effects of the EU to see how much of this restriction law has had its effect?" Do you know when the first effects will be published? Half of 2019, or at the end. So, you know what the next step is? To keep those interest levels on the zeroth level. It is true for those who love and for those who do not like bankers, because my job is not to love or not to love, but to work in the interests of Serbian citizens, providing them with the lowest costs and the greatest security. Of course, this attempt to be patient and not to come up with the solution we've been talking about for a long time was an attempt to remind us of an old time when patience, getting used to the existing state, relativating the solutions we've made, and we, wanting to show everyone the seriousness, cut the adjustment deadline from the original period of one year to six months, wanting to say – no, we gave our hand, wanted you to understand where your place is in Serbia. They thought they'd gotten time, and in fact, once again, they didn't read the law. So, everyone is allowed to register as a payment system operator, according to the Payment Services Act which was discussed in 2014 and adopted, came into force after nine months in 2015. Even then, it was possible that anyone who meets the technical conditions, and the procedure was detailed and precise, on the site of the National Bank, and could still register as payment system operators by paying a certain amount of money and respecting, above all, the information and technical conditions for working on this job. So all the stories that are surprised by certain circles, that this discriminatory provision are simply incorrect. This provision is completely neutral, doesn't favor anyone, doesn't discriminate against anyone. With this state, Serbia, through its competent authority called the National Bank of Serbia, must ensure the security of payment transactions in which citizens must also have lower costs, but also the certainty that no one's attention, intentions or anything will block the payment system. That contains all the truth, and I have to repeat another reason why this Article 9 was brought in, among other members that regulate this matter. Ask me why, I said, for reasons of normalisation of the situation and respect for serious states and each, means from countries in the EU of France, Denmark, Belgium, Britain, which, by the way, has increased the number of post-terminals where payment cards and the value of these increased transactions are now accepted in one year, 2016, is 500 million pounds, and in just a year of application of this law in the EU, the number of transactions has increased by 11.7%, and the expanded network of these post-terminals, not to say co-worker – in Nis only 5%, and in Belgrade 20, by 12.7%. They're only the first but extremely positive effects of passing one of these laws. Let me say it again, for who? It's the citizens of Serbia. Who's picking us? Who do we work for? Who do we swear allegiance to, our oaths to the most serious work? In front of themselves and those who believe in us. To tell you the truth, don't even worry about banks. Here, I'll say right away, until they register, which has the possibility, the payment systems so they can be in the country of payment system operators, and not that what happens in Serbia is settled over Visa, the supervision of Visa has the ECB, and over Mastercard has the Central Bank of Belgium. So it wouldn't happen where the incident happened on Friday, based on which we won't appreciate their, uh, dark work, efficiency or the way they work, until then we've made every bank free of charge to issue a home Dina card for free. We don't put our hands in their pocket. She earned NBS at her lowest cost to banks, not changing the cost of processing their transactions for 15 years. Fifteen years of NBS holding unchanged tariffs for what is a processing order by business banks at the National Bank. Believe me, for a succesive change, as the deadline of some card stands out, so the succession banks will have to issue Dina without asking, and these other cards, they are not banned from issuing, yes, but at the request of the user, not with the offer where the first side of the payment card is recommended, for which we have no alignment in the country, and then domestic. The banks, I say to you, will be the most conservative of all, not in one day's income that has been achieved, but be able to make up for the revenue they've made for the whole month, to make up for the total cost of replacing the payment cards that they're going to cost, not all of them, and I'm telling you that they won't even feel the cost. You asked me if those foreign investors would be stimulated, yes, and they are, to stay here. I owe it to the citizens of Serbia to repeat. Foreign card schemes here are registered in such a way that they do not pay a single tax on profits, do not even pay VAT on intermediation transactions between domestic banks and what they do for them, unlike the National Bank of Serbia who pays VAT 20% on these same transactions, the National Bank of Serbia for which this is not a profit business, but we appear as a market catalyst, which provides security and security of the market. Yes, we take care of all investors, and these 2.6 billion, as we expect this year, 2.4 net net foreign direct investment investments. I'm proud, like all those who say that it's changed both quality and policy, so of those 2.4 billion, 80% of them are what we call reinvested profits or new investments, and only 20% of what's mentioned here is the need for a deficit that can't be solved in the day, but it's solved for years, we finance debt instruments, or securities of value. So 80% in 2.4 billion net last year, 2.6 billion as much as we expect net in this year are also investors, but who hire people who pay taxes here and who provide that full wallet, a decent refrigerator or fuel in the car, as one of the MPs said. This is the policy in which one of his colleagues said, "You have learned everything, but you have not learned how to earn it, and you know how to spend it." That's the change of quality. We teach everyone how to make money. We bring those who generate income here and share it with us. We don't limit profits. No, we have absolutely free profit and profits from earlier years in banks, according to the Business Society Act and everyone else, we have no restrictions, but we have no right not to worry about the security of payment transactions, or the overall payment system, and I have no right to be less governor than the governor of the central bank of Slovenia, Bulgaria or any country in that regulated society that we seek. There will be other opportunities for me to present some more details in the amendment debate. But now what finally, crucially, is that there be no uncertainty. Why was Article 9 last minute introduced, this Article 9 which obliges the issue of a home card and that the alignment is done in the country? By investigating all the experiences, all the behavior, the cost of banks, various, as I would say, incentives that they give to banks to issue as many cards as possible, and using the legal competences of the National Bank to obtain data on costs and revenues based on card schemes, we have come up with a devastating data – 30m euros per year leaving Serbia for international card schemes at the cost I am talking about. Do you know how many banks that secure that 30 million out of money by issuing cards? Two and a half million euros. The way you're surprised, so am I. We learned that information maybe a month before we entered the procedure when we as the National Bank of Serbia came to the Assembly's agenda to discuss our laws. Our first law was that interbank fees, we promised, we received countless letters from small merchants who said "what are you waiting for more" and with precise explanations. I'll also read you some of those letters where people publicly amount to how many people work, how much money they have, how much taxes they pay, how much traffic they have, and how much they cost these card transactions. I didn't believe the data was true. Listening to the public that for every 2,000 euros of stimulation for the newly opened job, we ask whether, when I saw and compared the data we received from the banks and when I saw that these 30 million euros left the country on this basis were not projections, it was not an assumption, but a recorded cost, I didn't need a moment more to call my associates and say, let's define this and this member. They asked me if I was ready to endure all the pressures because the bankers, Mrs. Comic, we know each other and many of us here, I'm reacting to the pressures in the opposite proportion. What I am convinced is the interest of the citizens of Serbia, so at the cost and yes, I have the custom of saying, I am ready and willing to pay with my life. This is the thing that the National Bank of Serbia must do and is expecting unanimous support from all MPs, because however much we are opposition MPs, positions, in office, in the end, we are all citizens who need to know, when they draw a card, Dina costs 2.2 dinars, all costs. When you get through the Master card, 12 dinars cost you, by the average transaction of 1,300 dinars we calculated the cost. When 1,300 dinars of average payment transactions get through Master Card, you pay them 12 dinars. According to Visa, it's 8.2 dinars, and when you pay with your home card, it's 2.2 dinars, plus what we don't have, that this amount that goes out there is settled somewhere and no one can see it, no surveillance, no control. There will be too much to say for "Dexico", there will be opportunities. I've been talking too long not to be boring. Here, I'm really open here that, in the way you know me, I answer every question completely, and there will be debates in particular. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37806	Thank you. The word is Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37807	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic, Honored Minister Djordjevic and his associates, fellow MPs, since after such a comprehensive response, the governor can only thank me and that the citizens of Serbia see how much effort and energy is making to answer every question and how detailed it is to respond to every MP in order to make any possible ambiguity and some of the dilemmas that Serbian citizens have, as it shows here in the assembly. Thank you for that. One colleague here has already said, to me very impressively, that the prominent Bloomberg agency has announced that the second best currency of the world in the past year, according to all performances. But that's the result of great work, it didn't come overnight, but every big piece is considered very simple, so this wasn't easy. This has taken a lot of effort and work from year to year, and this is really a big confession. Investors invested 2.6 billion euros last year since the beginning of the year, the amount of investments from the same period last year has been exceeded. This shows investors believe in the country's political and financial stability and inflation remains low and stable. Foreign investors' interest in investment in long-term dinar state bonds has also been increased, indicating their trust in the prospects of the domestic economy. What defines foreign investors to invest in dinar government bonds is political and financial stability. For many years, low and stable inflation and relative stability of the course have been maintained, a significant reduction in problematic loans, successful financial consolidation, a decrease in public debt, and international markets have never better assessed Serbia. As regards, for example, the amendment and addition of the NBS Act, what is planned to increase the transparency of services is foreseen by the NBS e.g. In addition to the reference interest rate on its home page, it also publishes other interest rates applied in the process of implementation of monetary policy, all in order to ensure transparency and clarity that citizens can have at any time. The amendments and additions to the Business Society Act are based on analysis, suggestion and proposal so that we must comply with European corporate law in chapter six of the EU's accession. A major change is also the abolition of members of all laws that envision the use of the seal. The problem was in sublegal acts and only by this change will we jump 40 places from this area to the Duing Business List designated by the World Bank. Also, in a few years, the full application of shareholders' companies will be electronic, making a significant contribution to reducing the costs of the public register. Many procedural things are being changed, so, for example, so far a session in a stockholder's society has been able to call the owner 20% of the capital, now it's halved to 10%, so smaller shareholders can have a greater impact on handling. It defines exactly what financial security can be, and in this sense, under the number of one money in the current account, then securities of values and financial instruments, credit claims that banks have primarily at this point, NPL, are not security funds like they were so far. The criteria for the evaluation of stock companies are strengthened, there is no more suspension of the forced ransom in court proceedings which know that they often take too long, and so there is a suspension of the procedure, and there is a suspension of payment. I'd like to mention a bankruptcy law that I also find very important to speed up the economy. The Institute of Force Liquidation, which is now arranged and cut to a six-month period, is scheduled to aim at eradicating the register and creating a more correct picture of Serbia's economy. The real state of affairs we want to show the business of the business of the operators, so much faster comes the trustee's settlement, and so there's a faster movement of capital. As regards the abolition of the Supervisory Authority over financial institutions representing organisational continents within the NBS, it is proposed to further improve and strengthen the supervisory function of the NBS, so that, just under two months ago, amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Business Act were adopted on 19 April of this year, which provides for the NBS to assume the authority of the Tax Administration to issue and confiscate powers for exchange and control of exchange and foreign exchange operations, in order to improve the efficiency and supervision of the NBS. All this requires a certain regrouping within the NBS, as regards the organisation, in order to make the supervisory restriction between system essential institutions more effective. The supervision of financial institutions will now have a vice governor instead of a director of the administration. The payment card law, here many colleagues have talked about the law, the NBS wants to discipline banks and increase the transparency of services, just as the governor told the citizens. In this way, it is wanted to be used more in daily payment cards, not cash as in developed countries. In order for this to be a NBS, it must have better insight than the citizens of Serbia, so there are no more hidden costs. Costs in interbank relations should not be more than 0.2%, and the adjustment time has been left behind and that is six months. The main objectives that want to achieve this are primarily to regulate the payment card market, reduce costs, increase transparency, competitiveness among banks and accelerate modern forms of payment. I would just like to point out, in these six years since Governor Tabakovic's head, the NBS has achieved a lot, but I simply have to point out, which is exchange rate stability, and then foreign reserves have increased by 375m euros, have contributed to increasing investment and a better economic environment. Interest rates have fallen dizzy and low inflation has been preserved and has had an indirect impact on long-term investment. Problem loans have been burned to the lowest possible historical level. A modern insurance market has been established, state-of-the-art payment services have been introduced, including the introduction of smart phones as a payment instrument. It is actively involved in certain parts and in the management of the European integration process. This is just one piece of what the NBS has done in the last six years. This is proof that our country is progressing in every sense, that the conditions for investment are growing and that investors have confidence in the future of the Serbian economy. They prove it by investing not only in securities of value, but in opening new factories, which means new jobs and better living standards for citizens. Thank you Governor Tabakovic for having done a number of huge changes for these six years, which ultimately have only one goal, which is Serbia's progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37808	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a number of banking and financial laws, including the Law on bankruptcy and the Business Society Act. In my presentation, I will talk the most about the law on bankruptcy, because I believe it is a matter that is interesting to the largest number of our citizens, because a large number of Serbian citizens have suffered the consequences of this law. The reason for the adoption of this law states that the amendments and additions to this law are to be carried out solely in order to comply with the Financial Security Act. As we all know here, this Financial Security Act has not yet been adopted, so it is also discussed in this united debate and this argument tells me that all the amendments we have written on both of these laws will simply not be accepted, because if these two laws are mutually conditioned then the amendments we have written literally represent only a waste of time, because I am sure that the representatives of the government will not accept amendments to this law. So, the alignment that you're talking about here, in my opinion, doesn't drink water, because there's one proverb that says, where the money is, there's always a trap. This harmonisation of these laws, in my opinion, takes place primarily for reasons to give legitimacy to all the robbery privatisations that have been made so far, and we know that they have led to the bankruptcy of a huge number of Serbian companies and our companies. Of course, here I don't want to say that these robbery privatisations are your invention, the citizens of Serbia know well who is behind these robbery privatisations, but you simply didn't do anything to punish the responsible ones for these looting privatisations that led to the bankruptcy of the almost complete economy of Serbia. Also, you haven't even done anything to eliminate the bankruptcy directors, because these bankruptcy managers are actually just gravediggers of the Serbian economy, not to mention how big their financial assets are and how much they're paid. So the worst part is that in 2012 you came to power precisely thanks to the fact that you promised Serbian citizens that you would examine all the robbery privatisations, so you're taxing the 24 privatisations, but now, after six years of your authority, we see that there's nothing out of it, that this bankruptcy mafia is still together, and some of them are still members of your not only party but also part of it in a certain way members and ruling structure. Of course, we welcome the idea of introducing financial discipline and we have nothing against that idea, but based on what we've seen, we have no real guarantee that it will indeed be. Unfortunately, a large number of Serbian citizens continue to live in a very difficult situation and their existence is threatened, no matter what you say otherwise. If someone claims to be a rich man and his shoes say no, of course they'll be trusted with those shoes, not his words. Today, many Serbian citizens avoid or sad faces pass by banks, alongside ATMs because their current accounts are blocked or in these current accounts simply do not have funds, and we know what it means to block the current account today. Blocking the current account is just an oxygen block. It's pointless, then, to ask when you find yourself there by the machine, it's pointless to ask for mercy from the machine. Even a dictator can have mercy, but a machine, an ATM, it can't, because mercy isn't a mathematical term. A man in a situation like this feels very uncomfortable. I feel like a soldier in a war surrounded by all sides of the enemy. If that soldier has any chance of surrendering and thus surviving, here is a simple citizen, who is blocked by all accounts, who has no income whatsoever, he doesn't have the opportunity to surrender himself to anyone. So we had a situation where one of our fellow Members, the ruling majority MP, was Meh Omerovic, something didn't seem to be with his ATM, and then he had to resort to some other methods. The press all over Serbia is writing about it. Well, something didn't work out around that ATM and he had to run there, resort to some... So Meho Omerovic was caught at Frankfurt airport in illicit operations and it is indeed a disgrace to one of the MPs. It's even a lie to this entire parliament. Sometimes it feels like the opposite of common sense, because it makes some laws that choke the regime itself. So they're suffocating themselves with such laws, and that fact doesn't want to admit it, but it just goes like nothing happened. The regime acts as if every value that comes down to money, then you have to write off all other values that cannot be expressed in money. Our financial system must be slowly derived from the financial coma it has imposed and caused by the IMF. It all comes down to a constant leap of obstacles imposed by the IMF. Money is always the most critical place that represents a stumbling block for many. It is unrealistic to assume that the IMF wants well for our country and not only our country, but also many countries in the world, as it is unrealistic to assume that on the road lies a bundle of bills and that no one who comes across will bend down and take it. Thanks to the IMF, we're paying for our own collapse today, and you're showing us something else here. You don't want to show the whole situation, you just want to show just the better part of it. With an endless list of what some thing, some object cannot get close to understanding what that object is. When society is in trouble, it is not the most economic downturn that worries the most, but the short-term economic recovery, which we have a situation now in Serbia. For every successful society, besides the economy, of course, and politics, the most important thing is the view of the world. People usually claim that they are both carriers and members of both ideologies, but they live and behave according to other ideology, which is typical for the representatives of this government. So the size of a man is not in the amount of money he owns, but above all in his view of the world. The problem isn't that people spend money. People have always spent money, but the problem is that consumption has become the highest goal and greatest purpose of life. Society used to reject those people who lost honor, and today it rejects those people who lost money. The figures in the bank account became a magical substance that lives and dies for, but I still want to repeat that it's not all about money. If only the money that solves everything, it would have been a cure for immortality and for many other things that mankind so needs. Money has its limits beyond which it cannot work, because we will never be able to buy a lot of things, such as happiness, knowledge, honor, conscience, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37810	Thank you. The word is Milovan Krikapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37811	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Madam Governor with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, today I will speak of the justification for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Payment Services. It is one of the laws that is in line with European trends, because payment will be possible, i.e. available at any moment and at any place. In 2014, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Payment Services, establishing an adequate legal framework for modern forms of payment in the Republic of Serbia through a comprehensive adjustment of the domestic market for payment services and payment systems. Under the law, assumptions were created for further improvement and modernisation of payments in the country and abroad, while increasing the protection of payment service users, especially consumers. Also, conditions have been provided for increasing competition in the payment services market by creating legal opportunities for the business of new entrants on the market, as well as conditions for reliable, secure and transparent business of payment service providers, while establishing a uniform supervision of NBS over the business of entrants on the market for payment services. All of this provided a direct incentive to develop a cash-free payment, against the use of cash in daily transactions of legal and physical persons. However, during the application of the above-mentioned law, it was observed that the existing legal framework could be improved, as well as that the high level of protection of payment service users provided by law could be improved by further regulating the issue of transparency and comparison of fees charged to payment service users in relation to payment accounts, all through the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Payment Services Act. The president of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia are working hard and are making a great deal of effort to make Serbia better, to enable a better and easier life, in line with the world's trends, and therefore it is never difficult for any of us to approach the making of changes and additions to already passed laws, all in order to improve the quality of life of our citizens. Unlike the previous government, we follow the effect of every law passed, and in accordance with this we make changes and additions if there is any need for it. For us state-leading was a serious thing, and for them, of course, I mean those ahead of us, was clean marketing, though, a set of marketing that paid for Serbian citizens and therefore lived worse and worse, and representatives of the previous government were getting better and better. The reasons for the adoption of the amending and supplementing laws on payment services are multiple. In fact, the first problem recorded in practice has shown that transparency of information on payment service providers' offers is inadequate. More specifically, information related to opening, running and shutting down current accounts, as well as fees based on running current accounts, is often not clearly and precisely displayed, which was a problem and had to be changed. The second question, or another problem, which had to be resolved by supplemental law, is a simpler process of changing accounts, i.e. moving from one bank to another. The provisions of this Act will allow users of services to request and receive all necessary assistance from the employees of payment service providers and will have timely and accurate information on the conditions and duration of the procedure for changing accounts, and will save time by being able to address them only once, i.e. The new payment service provider. In this way, a simplified procedure for changing accounts creates a basis for further development of competition between payment service providers and a reduction of service prices in this area. Also, prescribing a payment account with basic services was a significant problem, as access to the payment account and to modern payment services became a prerequisite for full participation in electronic and social life, given that the use of almost money is rapidly reduced. The payment account with basic services has so far not been prescribed in the positive legislation of the Republic of Serbia. According to existing practice, each bank can determine which services it will provide to its users in the context of the so-called ‘. a package of basic services related to the payment account. In this regard, for the sake of equating practices and greater transparency for end-users, it is proposed for the first time to explicitly prescribe what the payment account includes with basic services. So, all I've said forward is that the introduction of the most modern cash transactions, that is, the faster and cheaper settlement of payment accounts, will work 24 hours. Life habits are changing rapidly, digitisation is present in all areas of social life and increasing representation of electronic content and services leads to new expectations and new requirements for customers and sellers. User habits change, customers want to be able to buy whatever they want from anywhere at any time, and sellers want the goods paid as soon as possible. By applying this law, we have a situation where for the first time our country gets a payment system that works 24 hours a day, every day of the week. More specifically, there is no inaccessible transfer of cash and it is possible for all participants in the system to be obliged to make the service available on a continuous basis. The possibility of a participant being unreachable during the day is not foreseen, as this would significantly affect the confidence of users in the system. I should also point out that through the application of this law, the main objectives are to introduce modern payment services, i.e. electronic money, and to affect the improvement of the quality, existing payment services and the reduction of the prices of these services for users, i.e. the population and the economy, as well as to protect the users of payment services. I can't help but feel like I'm not saying that Minister Djordjevic and Governor Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, last Friday, with their knowledge and knowledge alone, gave a lesson and disarmed their own, let's call them critics, a few of them who are constantly criticising and discussing whether they are competent or not. On that day, they were sad and miserable to see their heads bowed down, and they ran off with their heads no matter what. Serbian citizens saw who and how this country leads Serbia again that day. Looking at the comprehensive effects of this law, the SNS will vote and thus provide legal assumptions for its application, i.e. This law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37812	Thank you. The word is Nenad Christmas. He's not here. Jahja Fehratovic. He's not here. Maja Machužić Puzić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37813	I thank the president. I want to commend the set of laws that are in front of us today, but I cannot look back and praise the results of the NBS in the last six years, since you have been Mrs. Tabakovic at her forehead. A stable, low and predictable rate of inflation, a stable rate of dinars, an increase in foreign reserves, a comprehensive reform of the payment system, a reduction of the reference interest rate and numerous NBS activities, which have greatly affected the positive economic environment, which has been a generator of economic growth and development in Serbia in recent years. I would particularly like to praise NBS's activities in introducing new currencies on the course list, namely Russian laundry, Chinese yuan, Turkish line, Bulgarian left, Romanian leu, which not only enabled the conduct of transactions with these currencies on the domestic foreign exchange market, but contributed greatly to strengthening economic co-operation and international co-operation in general with these countries. Today I will refer to the draft law on interbank fees and rules of business in payment transactions based on payment cards. In addition to the many positive effects of this law that we could hear of the previous days from the governor and the minister, the most significant sightings are in reducing the cost of card transactions and achieving fair conditions for the business of all the players involved in payment based on payment cards. By regulating the system of security payments and card transactions, it will allow for greater confidence of citizens in payment cards, and thus more frequent use of payment cards, which will ultimately give a number of positive effects, and perhaps, in my view, the most important reduction of the grey economy and the application of business innovations and the higher degree of digitisation in the banking system. A number of instruments that this and the previous government are applying in the fight against the gray economy, along with the increase in frequency and use of payment cards, will mean a greater flow of money into the budget, and this will ultimately mean more money for schools, hospitals, kindergartens, roads, wages, pensions. I have to refer specifically to the segment of this bill relating to the reduction of interbank fees, as the main cost of increasing payment cards. By reducing interbank fees and increasing the transparency of payment card offer, there will be conditions for protecting the interests of small merchants and craftsmen through, practically, sixfold reduction of interbank fees from current about 1.2% who have visas and master cards, to a maximum of 0.2%. That's six times smaller. As the amount of trade fees depended directly on the negotiating power of traders, it was large trading systems and chains that received significantly more favourable bank offers, thus placing small merchants in a more unfavourable position, craftsmen, small businesses, which were therefore destabilised to accept payment cards. By reducing interbank fees, there will be conditions for expanding the reception network for payment cards and increasing the use of payment cards in retail stores, in small retailers, in craftsmen, which will have a positive impact on consumption, on price reductions, on reducing the grey economy and on many other positive Marko economic consequences. There are many positive effects of these and other laws that are on the agenda today and we could talk about them a lot more, but I'll make sure I leave time for my colleagues to discuss it too. Your Honor, I am sure that the legislative solutions that are on the agenda today will contribute to a better and better quality life for Serbian citizens, and I will support the set of laws that you have proposed with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37814	Thank you. The word is Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37815	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed Governor of the National Bank, Mrs Tabakovic, with his associates, respected Ministers Djordjevic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, is on the agenda of a very important Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services, another law that represents the continuation of the policy of this parliamentary majority and government, the policy of protecting citizens from unnecessary and imposed costs, policies that have proved successful on our path towards a definitive recovery of the economy, towards financial strengthening of citizens, as well as empowerment of citizens in contractual relations with financial institutions, which have not always occurred in good faith in the past period and on market grounds. Unfortunately, during the 2000-2012 period, the policy that was led was not in the citizens' interest, but in the interest of the financial centres of power, whose citizens were last in place. This was recognized by our citizens, so in the last elections, key policymakers in the past 2000 to 2012, remained below the censorship, and the policy led by Aleksandar Vucic and SNS received record support in the post-war history of the multi-party system in Serbia. So I think we should talk about what was done during the previous regime for one important reason, just so that things like that never happen again. Our fellow citizens were directly robbed, but subtlely, by law, deliberate or ignorance, but always by the wrong policy of the previous regime and management of the NBS until 2012. The high interest rate policy, which was even 11.75% in 2012, created a business environment ideal for speculation and the entry of hot money into the country, whose goal was not to place itself on the Serbian economy and citizens, but to profit at a high interest rate, which is the cost paid by citizens. It's a cost that, for other reasons, led the country to the brink of bankruptcy. The reasons for such a policy are often understandable, and our question – which is why people's money has been poured over to the world's financial centres, it has been answered that everything has been legal. To our question – was it moral, they answered that they had to. But they didn't have to, nor was it moral. It was a national robbery. This is what it looked like for an ordinary citizen until 2012. If our fellow citizen finally managed to get a job before 2012 and went to the bank, the banks offered him interest up to 20%. The banks didn't care if they were going to place, because the NBS was leading the policy of high reference interest rates, so the banks were getting high profits, doing nothing, just paying NBS money. So, our fellow citizen, in order to raise his credit to 100 euros in capital, would end up paying 38 euros in interest per month. Today it is possible to borrow from a dinar loan and at an interest rate of up to 5%. When our fellow citizen goes to the bank today, he gets the same credit and pays 11 euros at 100 euros principal. Math is an exact science, and economic laws are inexorable. Question for all experts – who stole 28 euros a month or 3,000 dinars by 2012? Who took his entire salary a year? Why did the NBS, under the control of the previous regime, spill money to banks? If anyone asks - what does this have to do with payment services, I answer – it certainly does. One source of extra profit was denied by banks by this law. They can no longer skin the citizens with green interest. Interests, slowly but surely, become the same as in EU countries. So again, the extra profits have been lost by banks, because the NBS has started working in the interests of citizens since 2012, and that's the fact, and that's the figures, and that's the money that stays for citizens who don't go to banks, and that's inflation, which is down by 12.9% to a short-term 2.5% or a long-term 3%. For whom is this not a historic success? It's price and course stability, which allows businesses to plan, not to deal with course and speculation, but to produce a new value. It is a stability that enables citizens to be in debt at a low interest rate and that their war does not grow. It's a stable course that's in the interest of economy and citizens, not speculators. Finally, we come to the conclusion that the NBS has put this proposal in the assembly procedure right in time, or right on time, because it is time for citizens to show themselves to traps in various commissions and fees, to bring them legally to a fair level and that banks are struggling to trust citizens with quality and business to a good degree, not traps to catch citizens and take their hard-earned money. Dear Governor, the SNS Parliament Club will definitely support this bill, and all the others in the set of these laws in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37816	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37817	Thank you. Dear Governor Tabakovic, with his associates, respected Ministers Djordjevic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have a set of legal solutions that are fully in line with the goals of the NBS, which are to preserve price stability and preserve and strengthen the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Tabakovic, you are the first governor of the National Bank since 1992 to have its full mandate, without interruption, and that means in six years we have macroeconomic stability. Serbian citizens have both monetary and financial stability six years in a row. When it comes to monetary stability, a low and stable rate of inflation, but also trust in the domestic currency, testifys. Our inflation rate in April was 1.1%, below the lower limit expected, and for the first quarter of 2018, the inflation rate was 1.4%. So our citizens' trust in their domestic currency has completely returned. As far as the previous regime is concerned, the inflation rate was 12.9%. Any pension increase in election campaigns has pushed inflation forward. We had an economy that was unstable, which couldn't respond to an increase in demand caused by an increase in profits, so the only answer to the economy was the price rise, which is the basic rule in the economy. Even worse lived those citizens who had no income or received without any increase. Because of price index growth, citizens lived worse and worse. It's very different today. We are also increasing pensions and salaries today to encourage the economy to produce more products, to encourage the economy to expand the volume of production, but also to create new jobs. When it comes to exchange rate, I'll only give one piece of information that speaks more than any word. On 1 June 2018, when the debate began in the principle of a set of legal solutions on the agenda, the exchange rate was 118.16 dinars. In 2012, on the same day, the official middle course was 117.28 dinars, and on June 1, 2008, the official middle course was 82.47 dinars for one euro. The data tells us everything. In just four years, from 2008 to 2012, they had an increase in the official average rate of 34.81 dinar, and we in six years for 88 pairs, meaning less than one dinar. This is all about our macroeconomic and monetary stability and theirs. Their concern for the citizens of Serbia was nothing. We also have financial stability today. This says that all financial institutions and banks work well and take careful care of money. The National Bank of Serbia has created conditions for sustainable economic development with its measures, as well as for the creation of new jobs. The macroeconomic stability is much easier for us today to make big decisions, but we are also thinking about our future. When it comes to foreign direct investment, today we have the largest inflow of foreign direct investment from all countries in the environment, which says that we have macroeconomic stability, that we have curbed the grey economy and corruption, then we have a stable legal framework, that we have peace and security within the borders of the Republic of Serbia and that we have implemented digitisation and that we are much, much faster issue of building permits. Today, the inflow of foreign direct investment, in 2018, was estimated by 2.6 billion euros, a very good result, which is the success of the measure and policy of the responsible National Bank of Serbia. Foreign direct investment is all export-oriented, which means our current account deficit is fully covered by foreign direct investment. Even growth has been recorded as a portfolio of investments for five-year and ten-year state records of value, which means confidence has returned to the macro-economic system of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to having a significantly higher profitability of the economy, and all these conditions have enabled us by the National Bank of Serbia, its measures and responsible policy, positive labour market developments, better tax collection, then we have a surplus in the budget, we have today increased the competitiveness of our economy. The processing industry achieved growth in the first quarter, as far as exports are concerned, by 12.4%, nearly 14 sectors of the 26 sectors in the industrial sector recorded a double-digit growth rate. When it comes to imports and here we have growth, but our import structure is improved. Today we import repromatter and equipment. The deficit that arises is fully covered, I repeat once again, by foreign direct investment. They say that the same participation of public debt in GDP, I must say, our GDP today is twice as big as theirs. If theirs was 20 billion euros, it's our 40 billion euros. This means that today we work twice as hard to make Serbian citizens live better if we just watch GDP. If we look at the other parameters and the structure of the other parameters, we work twice as hard to make Serbian citizens live better. Whether our own dinar or borrowed euro, we invest in infrastructure and investment projects, which returns to the Republic of Serbia's budget multiple times, which means that we will also have GDP growth in the coming period. Today, the Republic of Serbia is resistant to all external earthquakes and negative global impacts because we have improvements in the structure of our economy. Today we spend as much as we earn, and we pay off the former regime's loans from our own resources. We're not in debt again like they used to. The National Bank of Serbia is a banker of the state, and our National Bank is such a good banker. On behalf of the SNS, I thank you and congratulate you, Mrs Tabakovic, but also all the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the fantastic results achieved in the previous period. I have no doubt that in the coming period you will achieve even better results and wish you successful work. The SNS parliamentary group will support a set of all legal solutions on the agenda because all legal solutions protect the rights and interests of our citizens in the modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37818	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37819	Ladies and gentlemen, the second day we have been discussing the proposals presented by the National Bank of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry of Economy. Of course, the National Bank of Serbia proposes something standardised in the EU. It suggests ways and payment systems. But something happened in the meantime, these two days, which raises the question of whether the right thinking in this direction proposed by the National Bank of Serbia is right at all. The National Bank of Serbia suggests that different aggregates can make payments to make money as much as possible out of circulation and thus bring savings, but our colleague Meho Omerovic has made an effort to invent a new way of paying. He went to Frankfurt, stole the goods, showed a diplomatic passport and somehow paid for the goods. So the cards and everything are questionable. You'd better steal it. Stole lipstick, stole perfume, stole cream, squeezed his stomach, said he had received diarrhea and given a diplomatic passport and thus questioned the reality of these projects in general, which is real for thinking. It is important that you have a diplomatic passport and that your name is Meho Omerovic. That's the most important thing. Let's get back to these topics. In fact, this is where the Department of Economy proposes some harmonisation when it comes to the bankruptcy law. It is clear here that after the death of a company or in the economy of an organ, after the deceased, the bankruptcy proceedings are the most profitable by those who have an insight into how much property he had, whether it was in the desert debate by that judge who runs the desert, but here we are told that one of the main problems of the guarantee that was to be included with these proposals of the National Bank of Serbia. No, the problem is the bankruptcy directors. The bankruptcy managers are persons who deliberately delay the bankruptcy proceedings in most cases. It goes on indefinitely, to infinity, it is said, for the simple reason we are witnessing that former Minister Radulovic was one of the bankruptcy managers who can be praised for being among the recordmakers. In 14 companies, he was a bankruptcy manager. Count, gentlemen, that on average he had a thousand euros in each company, he made 14,000 euros a month. Why would he be in such a hurry to carry out a bankruptcy procedure? That's what to think about. You know, there are countless cases where machines are sold in bankruptcy proceedings, equipment worth tens of millions of euros, are sold for fish teps. In this direction, it is necessary to consider how to prevent individuals and how to limit the impact of such individuals when it comes to bankruptcy. As far as the proposal of the National Bank of Serbia is concerned, we have here a proposal to abolish the control board and to carry out the work in the future an executive board headed by the governor of the National Bank. Here is something that is not only a trace of what is happening and what is a trend in the functioning of the global, or European banks, but what we Serbian radicals indicated. We've ordered orderly on every Finance Committee that those who were involved in criminal activities should be sanctioned in the past in any way. The bank manager was Djordje Jeftic. Djordje Jeftic is, for those who are not clear, the man most famous by being in an emergency sanctioning body at Metals Bank. He and Srdjan Petrovic, as I recall, Jorgovanka, were both outside the National Bank of Serbia. Then Jelasic was governor. The flow of things, i.e. the order of things that happened in "Metals Bank" is the best example when you want to paint money laundering. How does the money that comes from drug trafficking, in this case Saric, as Yorvanka said, that we have pressure because of this case, turn into something that is completely legal and legitimate on the market? By finding the bank, the consultant is Mladjan Dinkic, and the realizationist is Jelasic as the bank's governor, he sets up a forced management at the bank, the bank finds a witness from associate Milet Jerkovic, who is a proven criminal fraud, buys property, buys property with the guarantee "Metals Bank", "Metals Bank" is liquidated, the property available to the mortgage "Metals Bank", and these are huge properties, huge areas of agricultural land. What's the penalty? The sanction is that by abolishing the control board, a man who was one of the most responsible and admits himself in the trial that he did not want to sign any documents, because he knew they were against the law, but he did not resign. Simply, by removing this resistor, the man remains at large, not to mention Jelasic, Dinkic, but recognizable people. As far as the proposal presented by the National Bank of Serbia is concerned, in the part where the work with the same or similar activity is banned, it is predicted that 80 percent of compensation is paid for a person whose function in the National Bank has ceased over the next six months, that is the right thinking. You should, perhaps, think about it because of the importance and confidentiality of the data that the person has, that, perhaps, makes some precedent depending on which function he is. Let's say, if the governor is replaced, it'll be a longer period than six months, which is a year. I'm not talking about this because of the current governor, we'll talk about it when there's a choice, but I'm talking about Jelasic, who's walking around Hungary, and after a few months, he immediately started giving his services to other banks, which is forbidden by law. For that reason, I suggest. After all, if it's the criteria by which the National Bank Governor's associates are elected, then we have that collapsing, gentlemen. We have Deputy Governor Diana Dragutinovic, who used to be a minister, and she used to be governor of the National Bank, and we know that she represented a completely different policy economically or monetaryally. (President: I thank you MP, you've wasted your time. How is it that no one has noticed that she is contrary to her attitudes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37820	Thank you. The word is Ivan Manojlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37821	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, the esteemed governor with your associates, dear fellow Members of the People, we have before us a whole set of draft laws for which, as well as my colleagues from the SNS, I find them extraordinary. We heard about something about bankruptcy a little while ago, which is otherwise defined by one of these draft laws. My colleague said bankruptcy involves a dead company and it is somewhat right, it was at the time of the rule of that yellow company. Maybe they were already in the beginning convicted companies as dead, thanks to their relationship with the companies themselves. Since the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party to power, we have shown that even bankruptcy does not necessarily have to be evil for the company, so, in Krusevec, where I come from today, we have one company, Branko Perisic, with a very long history, which is well managed by the bankruptcy manager, currently rented by a private firm from Belgrade and I hope that the company, or some other, will be defined by the tender, to be the owner of this company and thus be preserved from its collapse. Today, as my colleague said, it's much easier to discuss them, because finance is at least some area defined by tangible indicators. You know, we're very often here on occasion, at least in the tide, to hear different opinions, so that I'm not banalizing, but that someone likes something or doesn't like it, or that someone's nice or not, but at least there are financial indicators, and all the data is both transparent and comparable, and that leaves little room for a position for some political marketing. Perhaps they realize it today, perhaps some not, certainly not, and Mrs Tabakovic, you definitely disarmed your good and excellent results, and that the policy of Alexander Vukic definitely led to the fact that today they simply have no arguments. I see today the presence of a good part of the opposition here in the O.R. But Serbia's citizens made a surplus of 6.5 billion dinars in the first quarter of 2018. Real growth of gross domestic product, also in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period last year is 4.6%. The foreign trade exchange in the first quarter was 11.95 billion euros, which is 10.9% higher than in 2017. Serbia, according to all these economic indicators, is indeed an incomparable leader in the Balkans, but fortunately, there is, again and a part of the world, not only by geographicality but we have really joined in an adequate way. By 2012, we were on the verge of everything, except that we were in the central focus when some of the events and events, unfortunately, were at stake. The citizens of Serbia, just those who were once forgotten, precisely by this previous government, who somehow took over from them the democratically distinctive way by automatic rifles by the National Bank of Serbia, today with pride you, Mrs Tabakovic, sit here and we as the MPs, but I believe that all citizens of Serbia are proud of the overall government of the Republic of Serbia, because this brings them better. And what I always want to point out here is that this government is a government that has been working in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia since 2012 at last. These draft laws currently on the agenda will reduce the cost of payment cards, protect users of these cards, reduce the risk of users, i.e. where there is no fault of either the payment system user or the provider of such services at one significantly more tempting, more acceptable level per user. It'll be lower operating costs. Not to mention further, but there is so much really positive in these bill proposals that I would not want to take away too much time from my colleagues, but it is definitely that at the macroeconomic level Serbia is very good and we are ready to face the challenges that are coming to us outside the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely because of this stability of the dinars today that we have an extremely large inflow of foreign investment into the country. You put aside the focus and monetary policy of the Republic of Serbia, given that the stability of the dinar has been achieved relatively, so today, people don't have to run immediately into the bank to replace that salary in some foreign currency, and that, on the other hand, allows long-term operators to plan their business here. The National Bank is doing really well and this positive feeling that all citizens of Serbia and the positive effect that leads to everything is one comprehensive result, starting with the President of the Republic through other ministries involved in creating such a comprehensive picture. The gross foreign exchange reserves are also commendable because they have been significantly increased, as well as the reserves of gold from the Republic of Serbia. I want Serbian citizens to know that because it says that they can be calm and secure in a government like this, that they can be safe in the National Bank of Serbia. For those policy options that may not be enough, let them ask themselves what their election result is in the elections, why it is proportionate and indeed equivalent to the inflation movement in the Republic of Serbia, which is otherwise from two-digit levels, in 2018 brought to below 2%. We from the SNS will be very happy to support these bill proposals, and I hope that in some recent period, you make us happy with even better results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37822	Thank you. It's lovely. It's Michael. He's not here. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37823	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Governor, the Honorable Minister with my associates, first of all, I apologize for my promotional voice, since I will speak too cold today, but the assessment was that it was important to talk about these laws and I will ignore that tone that would not be very pleasant. In my discussion, I will refer to two important laws in the field of economy, and these are the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Society and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks, not because I think the laws remain less important, but because the Governor in the past two days and through her opening presentation, but also through the answers to the questions of MPs have indeed explained both the motive and the essence and the reasons why these laws are being passed and I thank you, and on behalf of the SPS Group, I say that we will certainly vote for the proposed legislative solutions. The proposed amendments and additions to the Business Society Act bring in a number of newspapers that should contribute to improving the overall economic environment, while Serbia also adopts the EU's legal system in the area of corporate law, which also meets the conditions set out in negotiating Chapter 6 concerning the rights of EU companies. The proposed changes should ensure better protection of minority shareholders' rights while introducing electronic services, such as electronic signatures and electronic stamps. This should allow faster and cheaper communication between state authorities and companies above all. In particular, special attention is given to the position of minority members and shareholders, as the degree of protection of their rights is identified as one of the greatest weaknesses in our legal system, as is also the report on the competitiveness of the World Economic Forum for 2016/2017. the year is clearly shown, as Serbia is in 134th place according to this criterion. The current company law contains a provision under which the founding act can provide that a minority member, regardless of having a share, does not have a single vote in the Assembly of the Society. The proposal for these amendments removes this large legal gap and provides certain protection to minority members in the sense that they must have at least one vote. It also provides for lower thresholds for holding sessions d.o.o., as well as for proposing the agenda of the Assembly of the Society with limited responsibility. While the higher thresholds are foreseen for the so-called so-called. a slideout, i.e. for the forced extortion of minority shareholders from ownership. The new law will also ensure greater transparency of business in favour of minority owners, as well as more time limits for paying dividends to shareholders. In addition to the strategic one, these changes and additions are expected to be of practical importance to create a more favourable business environment and further development of Serbia's economy, and will certainly affect Serbia's better rating of the World Bank's Duing Business List. When it comes to bankruptcy legislation, we must say that over the past 18 years, it has undergone numerous and frequent changes, which in some ways created uncertainty and instability and bankruptcy of debtors and creditors. This proposal for an amending and supplementing law on bankruptcy should contribute to the stabilisation of the legal framework and thus to more efficient insolvency procedures. We are facing several significant changes that improve this legislative framework. These changes are, above all, in line with the provisions of the Financial Security Act when it comes to the settlement of trustees' claims on the basis of a specific type of contract, and these are financial security contracts. A harmonised solution in these two laws should create an effective, regulatory framework for the implementation of obligations under these Treaties. In simple terms, it is about creating conditions for an increased level of calming of trustees and above all so-called. Determining creditors, those who have loans secured by supplies or mortgages. These are mostly business banks where businesses took mortgages and other loans, which are difficult to collect their claims. Trustees include workers and other companies, but also the state, so that due to inefficient and long-term bankruptcy procedures, everyone is absolutely at a loss. Also, long-term bankruptcy provides the assets of the company and ultimately sells mainly in the absence. Mostly bankruptcy buys property, building land and buildings. What is an indisputable fact is, unfortunately, that the company rarely gets out of bankruptcy and comes to life. I must draw attention to the period after 2000 when bankruptcys were declared overnight, even without surplus procedures that were mandatory under the law of that time. The consequences of such often illegal bankruptcys are suffering from Serbia's nature today. A number of companies formerly social, whose bankruptcys have started since 2000, are still in bankruptcy and thus fail. Many of them are out of bankruptcy privatized for a little money. Bankrupt and bankruptcy managers who run and conduct bankruptcy often sell assets to settle bankruptcy costs. We must not forget that in these conditions workers remain mostly short sleeves, without paid earnings and all other claims. Trustor disputes last long and all of this turns into a vicious circle that produces negative effects both by nature and by workers and by trustees. The second reason for amending the law is a more efficient and faster bankruptcy procedure against companies that meet the conditions for launching a bankruptcy procedure, as well as an increase in the level of settlement of creditors. It is true and it is evident that in the last years the time of the bankruptcy proceedings has shortened, and Serbia is in the 47th place of Duing Business List of the World Bank for the region in which we are classified. On average, active bankruptcy procedures last about four years, while Serbia has 20-year bankruptcy. So we have an unfinished bankruptcy of four state banks, which opened in early 2002, which today have large fixed assets and cash and are not for liquidation. This is also the request of the World Bank and the IMF, because unfortunately we are known for years and decades of bankruptcy in which assets of the bankruptcy debtors are being destroyed and destroyed, and that bankruptcy trusts are very often not settled even though there are funds in the bankruptcy. According to the confidence rate, unfortunately we fall into the order of inefficient bankruptcy proceedings. It's only about a third of the trustees that come from the bankruptcy. One reason is also the fact that the bankruptcy process itself eats a significant part of the company's assets in bankruptcy. According to some data, as much as 20% of assets and assets are spent on inefficient and long-term bankruptcy proceedings. According to the data, the highest percentage of large creditors is made up of bankruptcy debtors, where the Agency for the Licensing of Banks is appointed as bankruptcy administrators. Of course, to make bankruptcy proceedings more efficient, the judicial system needs to be more effective. During various periods, bankruptcy proceedings are conducted under different bankruptcy laws, and long-term litigation only extends bankruptcy proceedings. According to some statistics, a total of 2096 active bankruptcys are being conducted, 60 of which is over 10 years old. So there are a lot of reasons to make bankruptcy proceedings effective so as not to destroy property or any damage. I believe that the proposed amendments are about to resolve these problems and for these reasons the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposed legislative changes in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37824	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37825	Thank you, President. A respected governor with associates, respected ministers with associates, we today have a set of laws from the NBS, however, for the sake of public and truth, I must tell the truth. It is, that the 31.12. debt of the Republic of Serbia was not as it says, a sweet opposition, 14 billion euros, but almost double. I'm going to tax you now why and how. First of all, they achieved a three-billion minus in exchange for exchange rates. The interest on the loan we're paying, which we paid, because they took a 7% and 8% loan, four billion euros. Companies in restructuring three billion euros. We shut it down. Then sentence unpaid military pensioners 200m euros. That's what the Republic of Serbia paid from the budget in 2017. Then, guarantees for loans to public enterprises of 400m euros, no more. Today, the debt is 24 billion, and their debt was 27 billion in 2012, and that is true. That's 14 billion, it's just an official debt at that point, as far as the budget is concerned. By the time international institutions arrive, they say not only to see that debt, but all the debt the Republic of Serbia has. It's all debt, 27 billion euros, and today it's 24 billion euros in debt. In 2015, the debt was 77% of GDP, and today 59.6% of GDP, as my distinguished counterpart, Mr. Arsic and Mr. Kovacevic, said, is a historical result. Good for the government of the Republic of Serbia, good for you, ma'am. I would not speak of your competence and knowledge, because it would take me a long, long time, and yet Serbian citizens recognized and rewarded it. I need to talk a little bit about that. But what I'd say is, we're on the Dooing Business List today from 97th place in 43rd place. Which means we give building permits, we give out in 30 days, and sometimes it takes two years. Then, 90 factories were built, we hired over 180 thousand people. In 2008, they fired 400,000 people, unemployment 27%, and we, no citizens of the Republic of Serbia were fired. On the contrary, a good social programme, requalification and finally natural outflow, i.e. retirement. What I would still point out is that investment at an annual level is 2.6 billion. We're in negotiations, I heard it from our prime minister, another 30 factories, if Bor gets rid of us, then we're an example country. It should be said that it is not forgotten, that we have paid back all debts, part of their debt, all interest, and in doing so, we also take loans with one and two percent, so it is from capital investments: "Belgrade on water", the largest construction site in Europe, Corridor 10 ends, it works out Corridor 11, we build fast tracks, we build a subway. Finally, after 70 years of empty talk, the subway will be built. We are building apartments for the military, police, BIA, the value of the job -- a billion euros -- will be built over 10,000 apartments. Revitalised "Er Serbia", "Gelezzara" Smederevo, what to say. And about your results, so I guess it would take me an hour, no more time, Mrs. Tabakovic, hours, not an hour, I wish you personal and professional happiness. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all proposals for these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37826	The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37827	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers Mr. Djordjevic, the esteemed Governor, Mrs. Tabakovic, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I am a representative of the United Peasant Party, and I am selected from the SNS list, Aleksandar Vukic. I will today, as before, support a set of all these laws. We remember what was back 10, 12 years ago when a number of our people, workers, farmers on certain frauds took loans with these loans now came into dubiosis, where now the perpetrators come to them and take their apartments, which is not good. It's something we must never let happen again. With this set of laws, we have the opportunity to get cheaper loans with less interest, to make everything more transparent and finally get our credit man to see what he's taking and how much he has to pay back. That's great. We also have here two loans, verifications of two loans related to the development of health care. It is 25m euros for the development and stabilisation of state institutions, i.e. the Railways, the National Employment Service, then Puteva Serbia, where it has 110m euros. I expect that when these funds are finally allowed by the Assembly and those funds become operational, we will have the opportunity to finish what we said earlier and when there was the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Zorana Mihajlović, I expect that at that time, and already at the end of the railway that goes from Svrljig, from Svrljjig, Knjaževec, Zaječar towards Negotina, Prakov, will start working on the other side, but it is expected that in the next period there will be a possibility of reconstruction of the railway and thus from Svrljig towards Nis, via the Timok. I expect that this possibility will be a great opportunity to develop even greater, develop a railway, or railway infrastructure. There's something else very important for us to borrow about health care homes where there's a possibility of investing through this loan. I expect that there will be a real possibility that small homes of health, such as the Dom of Health in Svrlig, Gajin Han, the White Palanca and these small municipalities, can also provide certain directions, such as needs, such as interns, such as emergency assistance, such as restoring certain health homes, because it is really necessary to do so for these small municipalities. Otherwise, I will speak now, there is Minister Djordjevic with us, because we are back here a few days ago, for the first time, there is the possibility that through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy the funds and the funds provided for our women living in the country are now tens of thousands of fees for the next year. That's the first time it's ever been. Dear Minister, I really congratulate you, that was really necessary. For the first time, our wife has been recognized in the country. Once again, I, as an MP for the United Peasant Party, but chosen from the SNS list, will vote for all these bill proposals because I have confidence in our government, I have confidence in you governor, and I have the most trust in our President, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37828	Thank you. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word has the governor, Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37829	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Since Mrs Ljiljana Malusic spoke about the number of employees and very well explained what raised the quality of our relations with international financial institutions, it was hidden under the carpet, below the line, and beyond the balance sheet, and what is it today. I just want to fill in one piece of information. The number of employees in less than three years is 176, the newly employed 176,000. And there's no change in methodology. He's saying that one day someone who registers as an employee, and now something to me, means the labor force poll absolutely the same was true then, even today. The data we are particularly proud of today in the private sector is working over a million and a half employees. To young colleague Anna, who has prepared herself so well, but also to a colleague who is absent, I have one request. I can go with my team, and we're really working a lot, so I don't know how committed I am to having knowledge, experience, without the coordination of monetary and fiscal policy established by Aleksandar Vukic as prime minister, and without these same relations with the citizens of Serbia, so I'm just pointing out this, the number of employees, we wouldn't be able to do anything. One hand of the human organism is half. Serbia is now through this relationship between the monetary and fiscal policies of the NBS and the government, a man who steps into the right future and has two hands and functions as a healthy organism, not running but walking stable into a future that must be a good future for the largest number of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37830	Thank you. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. With the work we continue at 15.00 hours, with discussion of counterpart Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37832	Thank you, Chairman. A respected governor with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us with a set of laws that are subject to the NBS, as well as laws that are subject to the Ministry of Economy. The Serbian Progressive Party has no dilemma and will support all legislative proposals in the day to vote because they are in the interest of citizens, in the interest of the economy, in the interest of development and progress of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would like to point out that here from some MPs of different forms of the yellow company in the previous two days, we have had the opportunity to hear various objections, though, and the objections did not apply to the proposed laws, since they did not seem to have time to read the proposed laws. I must point out that the criticisms came from those who robbed children distracted by development, who usurped the most qualitative land on the Kosovar by building the Big Brother's house under the pretext that they were building a living room for children, of those whose time the dollar was the fourth weakest currency and imagine, respected citizens, the fourth weakest currency of the 178 countries of the world, of those of whom the IMF head left in 2011, of those who fired 400,000 workers, of whom time many cities in Serbia had to do various jobs, because of their poverty, because citizens had no business, called cities that were in the valleys of hunger, of those at whose time machine engineers, doctors had to do various jobs, of course, not according to their qualifications, various jobs for their families. It is extremely hypocritical and deeply immoral towards the citizens of Serbia. However, the citizens of Serbia have recognised this, and since 2012, trust has been given to SNS and Alexander Vukic because SNS's policy is behind results, employment stands, better life and the standard of each of our citizens. Those whose time there were 27% of the unemployed today talk about unemployment, and unemployment has been reduced to 12% during this time. It is, of course, still large, but the SNS and the Government of Aleksandra Vukic, and the Government of Ana Brnabić continued to do so continuously, creating an environment for greater employment of workers and thus for increasing the quality of life and standards of all our citizens. Of course, I have to point out that in their time, at the time of the yellow company, inflation was double-digit. Today, out of 44 EU countries, 31 countries do not have high inflation, i.e. deflation. Serbia is now in a group of 31 countries when it comes to inflation, which means it is within the framework of the European objective, i.e. within the target limits of inflation, as envisaged. Why is this low inflation important? Low inflation and thus ensuring the purchasing power of Serbian citizens and affecting the improvement of quality of life. This is how the NBS has done and the government responsible since 2014, led by current President Aleksandar Vukic. I also have to point out that GDP has increased in this period of six years. In the first trimester alone, GDP increased by 4.5% this year. What's important to mention here? It's important to mention his structure. The GDP growth structure is based precisely on investment and real sector activities, primarily in the construction and processing sector. I have to point out that in the processing industry sector in 14 cities of the processing sector only in the first quarter, there is a double-digit export growth, which also affects GDP growth. I also have to point out that the planned investments are 2.6 billion euros. It certainly shows that investors have confidence above all in the political but financial stability of our country. What I also want to point out, as regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services, I want to commend the NBS for bringing the Payment Services Act here in the National Assembly in 2014, and it started with the application of 2015. The National Bank of Serbia was extremely responsible for this law, responsible for monitoring the implementation of this law and in terms of facing the difficulties encountered during its implementation. This means that monitoring the implementation of the law and how important it is from the aspect of the protection of payment service users and this law, in fact, increases the quality of payment service users. I also want to highlight a very important aspect of this law, which is the aspect of financial inclusion, i.e. the financial inclusion of all citizens in the involvement in the financial system and the use of payment cards and financial services. Why does it matter? It is also important from the aspect of reducing the grey economy, but also from the aspect of money laundering, possibly and from the aspect of terrorist financing. I must point out that for the first time in this bill, it is legally determined what payment accounts are and what basic payment services are. Of course, this law is also significant from the point of view of compliance with Directive 92 of the 2014 EU. Also, at the request of every citizen who has a legal stay in the Republic of Serbia, banks are now obliged to allow him to open a current account, i.e. to use basic financial services. Madam Governor, on 6 August 2012, symbolically on the miner's day, here in the National Assembly you were elected governor of the NBS. I must point out that for these six years in mining work, which means with your responsibility, your diligence, your tenacity, you've led an adequate monetary policy, keeping the NBS' credibility, which is 130 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37833	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37834	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the esteemed governor of the National Bank, respected ministers, respected fellow Members, respected citizens, this Assembly deserves more attention from those who declare themselves to be fighters for justice and as fighters for citizens, and in 2012, when the SNS, along with its coalition partners, took responsibility for the future of the Republic of Serbia, when the governor became and placed in this Assembly for the Governor of the National Bank. The problems that were encountered were at the bankruptcy line, which someone would say we were a few days from bankruptcy, the state no longer had a way like when you walked into a one-way street and came to the end of the wall. That's what it looked like in 2012. On today, what has been done in the state of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia is commendable because it is likely to be used for analysis at schools and in Serbia, of course and abroad. Bringing the NBS into position today was an impossible mission and what others promised in pre-election campaigns, this governor and this government turned it into reality. The dinar is now at the positions of the second best currency in the last year in the world, which is a data that speaks for itself enough and a data that each one here in Serbia should be proud and proud. Is that easy? It's not. And is it doable? Here, it turned out to be. What I don't see from any of their representatives in yellow businesses before me was Milojičić Radoslav reported to speak, better known as Kena, who pleaded against, but the question against what, or who? All those who do not support the laws of the National Bank of Serbia are not against these laws but against their citizens. It's good here we have a law that's very important, it's a law on companies and bankruptcy. To me, this yellow company looks the most like a bankruptcy company, but a bankruptcy company, but there are debts that unfortunately we can't repay so quickly and so easily, how many years they've made these debts. The Serbian Progressive Party and citizens have managed to recover something, but it will take more time, because the debts were too large. If they had cheeks and honors, at least they'd apologize to their citizens and have cheeks and honors they'd apologize every time they got up. They would first apologize to the citizens for what they did to them during the government from 2000 to 2012 in different forms and compositions. The additional problem is that this sinking ship, their bankrupt company, has left almost everyone, and these remains that remain neither know what they are doing nor what their ship is sailing in any direction, but that is their problem, not their SNS and citizens problem. The Serbian Progressive Party has a responsible government and has a stable National Bank of Serbia and is precisely the stability of the National Bank of Serbia as one of the fundamental pillars of state stability. The stability of the course, low inflation, increased foreign exchange reserves, the latest payment services in line with digital trends, the security of each individual of each business transaction and the security of every company regardless of its size are exactly what the National Bank of Serbia has set up and put up and will continue to be the pregnant and only principle of business of the National Bank of Serbia. What is important and what people understand and I think they understand well, and this is exactly what the SNS results in all the elections made in 2012 until 2018, which is mostly teamwork. On the one hand, the National Bank of Serbia, on the other hand, is a stable government, on the third hand a stable majority in the National Assembly, and this is again the consequence of what? Well, the result of the votes that citizens in the election give to whoever they trust. But what no one before the SNS understood correctly, which is just teamwork. On one team if everyone doesn't do their part of the job right, that team won't be anything, there won't be any results. What is good and what is safe for Dick and Serbia, but above all for the President of the Republic of Serbia and all of us, it is that this teamwork is not only seen in the team work of the Government, the National Bank of Serbia, the National Assembly, but every individual and every citizen. I believe that it is the team leading Alexander Vukic, a team playing all our citizens and in which all our citizens decide what they will do and how they will do. And in the next period, what gives a really good will to all those who have worked since 2012 and who are working on today, it is that citizens recognize what is done and recognised and the results. Anyone who tries to deny these results deny first and foremost their citizens, because they know very well who he is and what he is and what he does in this Republic to Serbia. What I'm going to say for the end, but I don't think it's less important, is that the NBS in the next period as fantastic as these results are, and any indicator from the number of employees to the above-mentioned inflation, the stability of the course, and I'm going to repeat, it's impossible for a mission to be another currency in the world in the last year. The results can be even better and one of the conditions is these laws. I call on all citizens to follow this work of the Assembly and that all those MPs who think well of their citizens and of course their own country, to support the laws, because voting for these laws is a vote for the future of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37835	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sonja Pavlovic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37836	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsic, the esteemed governor with his associates, the esteemed Minister Djordjevic with his associates, I am pleased to see you in this number, here in this high house, which speaks of your dedicated work and your associates. These laws, which are on the agenda today, have their stops in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Ana Branbic, on the page of her 68th exposé, I quote - with the fourth digital revolution we have a chance to catch up on the lag and catch a connection with developed countries. It's a finished quote. However, honourable MPs, that is not enough if we do not have one condition before, and that condition is stability, without stability we cannot achieve this task that is indicated. The condition was noted by former Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and current President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, on 9 August 2016 in his exhibition. On page 53 of his exposé, I quote – stability is an economic and political condition for new investments, without stability there would be no foreign investment. It's a finished quote. Dear People's MPs, and when taking an oath to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic said in this high house, on 31 May 2017, I quote - therefore, peace and stability are and will be the core of my future political action. It's a finished quote. Thanks to the stability of the NBS, it has preserved price and financial stability, contributed to a more stable, economic environment and not only that, gentlemen Members of Parliament, but also lower borrowing costs, faster economic growth and repairing credit ratings. During the term of office of Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic, the Republic of Serbia achieved a great result after the economic sunfire that brought us to the party of the former regime. First, inflation has been brought to the level with European countries from a double-digit level. Is that what the gentlemen of the former regime are like or isn't it? I can see you're not in this high house, only today was her card still here, Mrs. Comićka, I'm sorry she's gone, they're probably dealing with the election inside the party, and I'm sorry it failed in the election, which Mr. Lutovac called the stray in the election. Secondly, only in a year inflation was lowered from 12.9 in 2000, as you, gentlemen of the former regime, left us, on 2.2 October 2013. Thirdly, during the previous five years, during Mrs Tabakovic's term of office, we kept inflation at the average level of 1.9%. Right, gentlemen of the former regime? Right, gentlemen of the opposition bench? Fourthly, during the term of office of Ms Tabakovic, we preserved the stability of the exchange rate of dinar towards the euro. In 2008, to remind me, by 2012, during the former regime's party's takeover of the SNS party and coming to power, the euro is 89 dinars, and when the SNS authorities took over 120 dinars, they forced it, the former regime's party. So, we're really staying here. Right, gentlemen of the former regime? I'm sorry, gentlemen, you can show us what's missing, but I know they're in the offices of this tall house, or, possibly, from their houses, they're watching, they're getting along with these findings of mine. The fifth, during the SNS government, remained almost unchanged in the euro from 2012 to 2018. It increased by 0.3%, with foreign exchange reserves increased by 375 million dinars based only on inflation. Right, gentlemen of the former regime and gentlemen of the opposition benches? During the disastrous government of the former regime, in 2008-2012, the dinar lost a third, 33.2% of its value to the euro. Right, gentlemen of the former regime and gentlemen of the opposition benches? Please, these unarticulated voices, if you can, Mr. Arsic, to remove. The stability of the course has contributed to the economic environment being predictable and thus to strengthen economic external trade stability. During the term of office of Jorgvanka Tabakovic, gross NBS foreign exchange reserves were increased by 409m euros, which amount to 10.5 billion. In this regard, I quote Mr. President Aleksandar Vukic, president of the state: “And on this change, we have built the foundation of our own future, the future of this country. ” Done quote, 31.05.2017, President of the Republic, when taking an oath in this high House. We heard today, Mrs. Tabakovic, criticism from the party of the former regime, the man in the first row. I saw that you were embarrassed because you were surprised that he was providing incorrect information and that he was a National MP, and this is what the MP who was president of Smederevska Palanka Municipality tells you. For his term, he left in a long municipality for 4,000 billion, and for just one evening he drank 120,000 in a coffee shop and no wonder there is still one graphite on the wall in the centre of Smederjevska Palanka. I will quote him: "The truth is alive, there is no beer in Palank. All that's left is foam, drank by yellow Ken. And the beer was expensive, I drank it, I bought it. What does a bar drink? The budget pays for everything. I'm a yellow Ken from the Glibovac. “ A quote has been completed. So much for him and his criticism. And, finally, members of the former regime, in characters such as Boris Tadic, called "lipicaner", Dragan Sutanovac, called "Zkadinovac", Zoran Zivkovic, called "a farmer in an attempt", Saša Radulović, called "King of Banks", Đorđe Vukadinović, called "Gjordje Vlah", Vuk Djilas, called "Vukovnak", Saša Janković, called "Sale Prangia", Balša Bozadinović, called "Golded pirate from Maldiva", Dragan Djilas, called "Djiki Mafia", Bosko Obradović, called "Lupetiv", invented the eighth fall of the Lupetiv Lupetiv, because it is constantly used in this National Assembly, Radoslav Milojičić, called "Dipiopimovija" and all of our economic collapse. That is why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have thrown them into a political dump that will not surely return and destroy our country. The esteemed governor, the esteemed vice president, the respected ministers, the former regime destroyed our past, destroyed our present, destroyed our children's future, and if they had stayed in power for another year, they would have destroyed our roots. Therefore, with the help of God and with the help of the citizens of the Republic, the SNS has won the lead with Mr. Alexander Vukic, under whose helm our ship is daily, surely, sailing to a set goal, which is modernly prosperous, stable and rich Serbia. Governor, I wish you every happiness, with hope and a desire that you will continue to lead the NBS to the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our country. (The Faith Radeta throws out of place) It's a matter of your civilization culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37837	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37838	I'm reporting from article 27 because it's inappropriate for a colleague to have spoken earlier. The throwout called some unarticulated voices, and the whole of Serbia remembers him for when something Marijan Risticevic says, he starts "Au" to shout, but good. I wanted to intervene as a member of 107, so I changed my mind and here I now appeal to all fellow Members of the People's Parliament not to intervene according to article 107, which speaks of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, because there is no way anyone in this room could harm the dignity of the National Assembly the way Meho Omerovic did two days ago, when at Frankfurt airport he stole some cosmetics and, worst of all, he showed a diplomatic passport. It is indeed an unprecedented disgrace and the worst possible humiliation of the National Assembly and the worst possible step of the dignity of the National Assembly. That is why I thought that we should agree that perhaps all the parliamentary groups should no longer be mentioned here, as long as Meho Omerović is a national MP, because no one will ever be able to harm the dignity of the National Assembly again, as he did with his thieving and stealing, Meko Omerovic at Frankfurt airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37839	Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (Miss Radeta: No.) ) Right to replication, MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37840	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me the right to the replica. I really don't think it's appropriate for a distinguished colleague, Atlagic, to speak in the way he speaks. First of all, the people he mentions are not present at all. It's part of something that might be called a home education. Otherwise, I don't like to talk about people who aren't here. Second, it represents quite a few basics and facts that really have nothing to do with life. Dear counterpart Atlagic, I really don't know when the representatives of the Serbian Dvora Movement were in power to be former government, but I'm surprised you don't mention coalition partners who were both former and current authorities in your presentation. I'm surprised you didn't mention any other politicians who weren't here, too, whose party you were in, so I'm asking you not to come into situations to replicate and spend time and gentlemen who came to explain the laws to us. I think we have better things to talk about, but there's really no reason to keep... One time it's nice, another time it's funny, and the third time it's sad for me. Not to me, but to everyone. It's not like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37841	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37842	I had to react, since I see that it was not accepted, indeed a great proposal from the Members of the Verica Radete, about the abolition of Article 107, so I refer to Article 68, where it says that the National Assembly is educateing the committee of inquiry, i.e. the commission to look at the situation in a particular area and to determine the facts of certain occurrences or events. Indeed, if you do not want to accept this proposal to form a survey board, let's see what are the facts that really led to Meko Omerovic having to hold both lipsticks and perfumes at some point, and in the other hand his stomach, or passport. There's been a lot of confusion both for our Parliament and for the entire nation. Is this the mirror of the ruling regime? We don't want to believe that it's the mirror of the ruling regime, and that's why this is the right time, not to be on TV First, and to talk about whether or not the intestines have caved in, but to see how it is with the passport, and while he's at the fridge, there's some stuff running to the bathroom and explaining to the cops, or maybe it was the real reason that...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37843	A colleague of Damjanović's... (Miljan Damjanovic: What? ) You know, the procedure is provided for by the Rules of Procedure for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Here, make an initiative and then direct it to the National Assembly. (Miljan Damjanovic: To be your initiative. And you don't need to convince us of your initiative. If you want, as I said, if you want to discuss it, make an initiative, refer it to the National Assembly, and we'll make a decision. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement on this in the voting day? (Miljan Damjanovic: No. ) Right to replica, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37844	Dear Vice President, only two sentences I can understand and understand a gentleman from one party whose president is not in this high house today, but I remind him that he is regularly missing, not just him, not constantly, but often missing, but all of the presidents of the former regime's parties. [[Faith of Radeta: How in replica?]] I ask the cameramen to see from the party of the former regime if anyone has any, but it's daily, but I remind them that they're getting paid in this high house. It's not fair, gentlemen, it's not moral, for the arguments put forward in this high house should be sitting, studying, having an idea to have against the proposal, and that requires dedicated work. They are unable to sit here, to endure, let alone do something serious. As for his president, when he gets here, I'll especially, I agree, we'll wait for him, and we'll see why he's responsible, for how many thousands of euros from one company alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37845	For information, counterpart Atlagic was granted the right to replication based on the mention of names and last names. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37846	Thank you. Dear Minister Djordjevic, the esteemed Governor, Mrs Tabakovic, with his associates, the Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to try to get back on the subject, we have today brought together a debate on several draft laws and the JS parliamentary group in the voting day to support the above-mentioned drafts of the law. My colleague Vojislav Vujic, as authorised in front of the JS parliamentary group, spoke about all the draft laws in this united debate, and my presentation today will be focused on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Business Companies and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank's Banking Act. At the very beginning, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Economic Society, to say that the aim of this bill is to improve the economic environment, to improve Serbia's position on the World Bank's ranking list, in terms of business, and most importantly, it seems to me, ministers, to change the awareness of our businessmen, but also general images of Serbia in the world. On the other hand, one of the key objectives is to continue to comply with EU rules on Chapter 6. Returning to the proposal for a law on companies, the most important changes that this law adopts concern the provision of electronic registration in the first place, as one of the important steps in establishing electronic business as part of the digitisation of the entire society. So, practically, thanks to this decision, a new era will begin in business companies in Serbia. It will allow legal persons to gradually move to electronic business using, practically, electronic documentation and signatures, electronic data exchange, as well as electronic archived documents. Minister, this seems practically to mean that in two or three years, we'll be able to register the company fully. In order to do that, in order to practically, say, by clicking on to register the company, change the headquarters of the company or change some other information, software needs to be brought to life practically and these software can support what we want to do. The proposal for this law to companies cannot be introduced any longer by the obligation to use stamps in business letters and other documents, but the application of this law ceases to apply provisions which oblige legal persons to use the seal in 12 other laws as well. What I'm trying to say is, no longer prolonging this law, that the JS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. When it comes to the second draft law, the proposal for a bankruptcy law, it should be said that the aim of this law on bankruptcy is the most favourable settlement of creditors, as well as the protection of creditors against discrimination. When I say protection from discrimination, Minister, I don't think one trustee is in a better position than another trustee. I also want to say that bankruptcy is not only a legal but an economic and sociological phenomenon. When this is, I say, the result of bankruptcy is the termination of the employment relationship between everyone in the company over whom the bankruptcy is opened. Now, Minister, I'm sure you'll fully agree with me that we had all of this from 2002 to 2012, as a consequence, so slightly to say, the catastrophic privatisations or the easiest to say, the disastrous law since 2002. We are currently seeing a decrease in the number of bankruptcys, because in the process of healing the judiciary is more up-to-date in bankruptcy cases, i.e. a large number of bankruptcy debtors have been sold. Those who lost their jobs due to bankruptcy, there were quite a number of them coming back to work from 2002 to 2012. I don't want to go any further and not talk about a lot of cases about this, but I'm only going to mention to Gilesar Smeder. Minister, at the very end, because of the time our parliamentary group has and no longer, I want to say that this law is also a major step forward. It provides for a better payment of creditors, a reduction of costs and a reduction of the time of bankruptcy proceedings and a representative group of JSs will vote for both these draft laws and for all the laws in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37847	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37848	Thank you. First of all, I would like to commend something I heard just before the break in response to the presentation by Gordana Komic, when the governor mentioned the increased forsaking of dina cards and the need to put this traffic under our control, and if that is some intention in the future of the NBS, it is certainly what the Dvori has been saying for many years and that they are in favour and you will have our support for it. Also, I would like to say that many MPs, especially the ruling majority, often in this debate today and Friday, mentioned paying through mobile phones and technological advances. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia, but also the MPs, as well as the current authority, that this patent in the world framework, the patent of a Serbian citizen, who patented it more than 15 years ago, but as well as many things in this country, was a victim of serious crime, primarily political crime depicted then in the image of Dusan Mihajlovic and Tahir Hasanovic, then Canet Sutotic, Darko Saric, Nenad Kovac, Cvetko Kovac, and today until Nikola Petrovic, because his patent was kidnapped. So the ruling majority and Alexander Vukic know very well what I'm talking about and what man I'm talking about. Just doing the information, since it was mentioned, I wanted to point it out. In 2016, when this assembly of the National Assembly was formed, in Hall 1 here on the ground floor of the National Assembly, then Prime Minister and candidate for the new Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, held consultations and meetings with representatives of the parliamentary group. I was part of a delegation of the Serbian Movement Dvora, which spoke with Alexander Vukic for almost an hour. We gave him some documents at the time, and a good part of those documents was about bank operations. In this document that he received, which I hold in my hand, we made it clear that in the period from 2007 to 2016, banks executed tax evasion and illegal money exports from the country amounting to over 30 billion euros. We explained to him the most often through two jobs that the money is being made, where the state of Serbia alone would remain a four-and-a-half billion-euro tax with respect to the figure. All of this, of course, made possible, because the competent state authorities, including the NBS, as well as the competent prosecutors, are not doing their job, where the whole system here is designed to protect banks at the expense of the Serbian economy, the Serbian budget and ordinary citizens, contributes to the fact that the laws are coming into our process. I would remind you that in 2015, when the Bank Act was amended, certain rules were adopted that further protect the position of banks. It is then possible for employees to be employed at the National Bank of Serbia and those entrusted by the National Bank to perform certain functions cannot be held accountable for the damage they have done in their business, unless it is proved that they have not acted in good faith, which is practically unimaginable, and the National Bank bears all the costs of their representation. Also, what is Article 9b of the Banks Act, which was then brought in, where the general regime of access to information of public importance is exempt from the data relating to business control and bank credits? So, did a bank break regulations, did the National Bank impose any sanctions against these banks, is being declared a secret. Of course, I have here data that you classified as a secret, where, in the period from, say, 2007 to 2014, as we then gave Mr. Vukic, a total of 489,984,649 dinars were spoken to, which to the banks, which to the persons on the boards of banks. I'd like to ask the governor, first of all, why are your data a secret? Secondly, has the administrative court in the administrative dispute ever annulled the fines issued by the National Bank? Is that amount then charged less than it was said? Why am I saying that? Because just in the case that we handed over to Vucic, the European Commission's decision was illustrated, which punished a group of business banks with 1.5 billion euros, and the London court, in January 2016, in a nine billion-euro deal, a group of banks for making a cartel that affected the Eurobor and Libor, the interest rate applied to us in all contracts. If this is how it is done in Europe, all citizens, all the users of the loan, were victims of the euribors and the libors. Why has this never applied in Serbia? Why didn't we take some steps through the banks? I didn't agree with his answer that his hands were tied and he couldn't pick up the bank position, but good. In two days we'll have a loan user protest in Swiss francs, another one in a row. You well know that over 20,000 families who are in this problem and you well know that according to the current Bond Act, it is not only a currency clause in Swiss francs, but a currency clause in credit agreements is not allowed. The banks are entitled to the capital and interest. A currency clause can be used in some business, which is about buying and selling goods, but it can't be credited in contracts. So, not only are Swiss francs, but also at the euro, the currency clause is not allowed. I would remind you that there is a principle of honesty and the principle of security. For example, the Greek court recently ruled in a collective suit of 77,000 citizens with CHF loans, precisely referring to these principles, that these contracts were void. When will the CHF user problem be solved? And not to say that people who use the euro are too, because you say well how big the euro was in 2007, 2008 and how much it jumped by 2012, and that's about 50% of what it jumped. Imagine how much this is a burden for people who also have euro loans. We need to think about how to protect the citizens, not how to protect the banks. The courts won't do it, because here, I have contracts here and I've shown them publicly, between business banks and courts, where judges have VIP client status. It's not only illegal, it's illegal, because how can these judges judge banks tomorrow when they have loans that citizens can dream of, and banks can unilaterally change the terms of credit? Furthermore, we also introduce new financial derivatives, given that we already have factoring and now with this new product that we are introducing, this is where we should make sure that Article 5 is not broken. The law on banks, but I'd like to say one other thing. How can we go out for the benefit of the citizens? Why, in the event that the bank gives up its claim, one obligation, such as there is, for example, in the traffic of immovable property and the Law on the basis of property legal relations, that there is a right to prevent purchases, to offer first to the debtor, to buy that debt, rather than to transfer it to factoring houses, so that they can buy the debt under that offer? Imagine the overindebted citizens, when the bank is paid off, going into the execution procedure. Look out, and this executive procedure is a very wrinkling and troublesome thing. The perpetrators of what they are doing, it is a major crime against the citizens of Serbia. If it's worth selling some real estate for 30% of the price by direct contract, why don't you first offer the debtor that he can buy out his real estate for that money? Everything around here is supposed to be robbed by citizens. This exists in practice. I'll give you an example. Recently, a well-known Serbian businessman from the Alpha Bank bought 100m of his debt for 20m, and he can do it because he is close to the authorities, because he has television with a national frequency. Why can't those who aren't close to the authorities do that? Furthermore, you have not provided us with an answer – how does the banking system in Serbia work? We asked you a question for the company "Pink International" owned by Zeljko Mitrovica. She took a $27 million loan. Who did she pay five million to in Ukraine as a commission to get that loan? I'll make your job easier. It was "Aik Bank" that approved that loan, and if you don't know how to tell me whose account it is, I'll tell you next time, of course, but I'd like to hear it from you. Another controversy that was visible these days concerned your salary and your earnings. I'd like to ask you two things. First, why didn't you report the disappearance of an active purse in 2014 from the Maestral Hotel in Milocer in 1809? Three times you were asked by a Montenegrin police member, you complained to a Montenegrin politician, and you received that briefcase black a few hours earlier from a representative of the "Pireus Bank" and complained about how they made you. Furthermore, please confirm that my colleague Mircic mentioned this earlier, speaking of Milet Jerkovic and "Metals Bank", were you in front of "Metals Bank" in November 2007 together with Mircic, Aco Stefanovic and Milet Jerkovic? You did not enter the bank at Anani Pavicevic and Nada Momirov. They did, but you told him it was all over for a 2.2m-euro loan. And that's proof that banks were being destroyed in Serbia. Well, if I could hear from you, take advantage of the opportunity when you're here, let me hear that answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37849	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37850	The D.A.'s office in Smederev should be calling you to testify on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37851	The word has a governor, Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37852	By respecting the MPs' institute and having someone voted for you, I will first answer these two tabloids' information, or questions. Why didn't I report the disappearance of some act of a briefcase in Milocera? I didn't have a purse, nor could I report the disappearance of what I didn't have. The only non-sexer I've ever used in a hotel room in Milosevic was stolen from me. Reported to the police and got a call to testify three days ago, a written invitation to come, so last week to that trial. I admire you. Do you know how much I admire you? Are you a man, someone's brother, a father, dare to ask one woman, whom a man climbed up to the sixth floor and came into the room and took only heart medication out of the room? Well, what kind of consciousness do you have to dare ask me about an act of purse and some nonsense of that kind? So it's not true that I had anything but personal stuff. Everything that's been posted, I was on my way, the flight can be checked, if I've arrived, who I was sitting with, when I went to bed. It is amazing how true Mrs. Ruth Beckerman's claim, the award winner of Kurt Waldheim's film, says – the world is ruled by the masters of false news. You've proven to me as much as possible, and believe me, I didn't think it was possible. "Metals Bank," you were talking nonsense that I was a member of the board of directors, supervisory committee, Aca Vlahovic, as it is called, who did you mention, Stefanovic? So, a notorious, false lie. And I will never tell you: bring witnesses. Get one of those guys who said he saw me somewhere that I was with someone. I don't know how you're not ashamed to use such nonsense. You can dispute anything about me, but you can't make it up unpunished, because the secrecy you're contesting, when it comes to the control of banks, and the public you're referring to, when you're doing the job you're doing, you've lost the limits of rudeness, you've lost the limits of humanity when it comes to me, and when it comes to the question you've asked, you've lost the limits of logic. You say we're defending banks, and this is where you're bothered by an 86-year-old who allows someone to control banks unbiased. Who are we protecting? Our own people who are in control or protecting banks? You must be consistent in your presentation and in your remarks. I know that the result, the condition, are not in favor, because it devises your existence and the objections you make. But the ease that you're saying a 30 billion-dollar figure is not worthy of this home here. I repeat, as governor, I claim that no one is worthy of saying that number in this house, because it will concern the citizens. One of the journalists asked the People's Bank a question last week – is it true, not malicious, is it true that the banks, he said, made a profit worth five billion in the period from 2005 to the end of 2017? Do you know what the figure – 600 million, from 2005 to the end of 2017 total profit derived from the banking sector achieved on this market and exported outside the country to its shareholders, regularly, in accordance with the consent given by the National Bank, in accordance with the legal regulations. Where's the difference between 600 million profits and five billion he said so nicely and bombically? You'll be interesting one day, but you'll do a lot of damage. First of all, you won't be trusted anymore. I'm telling you, the same difference between this -- 600 million and five billion -- is the one you're talking about as money out of Serbia. Yes, there is a need for all payment channels to be placed under surveillance, control, to check the bloated invoices, to check the return of VAT, fictitious invoices, work on black, gray economy and everything else that one serious and responsible government does. Here, proposing laws that will be recorded, controlled, prevented, stopped, but so that this Serbia remains a desirable destination for investors, in the real sector, in the service sector and for everything else Serbia needs. But not by bringing up lies and numbers with such lightness, which make the head hurt. Is that your intention to intimidate those who should come, because in Serbia they can be called for anything, just as you call me? Listen, when I got into politics, into public life, I'm aware that many of whom have a problem with the result are interested in my personality. And they're not inseparable things. But as editors call for the protection of secrecy, as the state ends certain tasks and deals calls for classified data with a limited duration to be successfully done, and in the same way must any participant in public life - both the employer and the National Bank and the government and the parties, to find a measure between what is the interest of the public to know and the need to preserve the secrecy of a job, up to a certain time limit, in order for the job to be done. That's how much I have to tell you on this subject. And one more thing. The mention of factoring for the last two days has been given, so someone here from the parliamentary benches, it doesn't matter to me at all that my colleague wasn't there, whether he's looking from somewhere, but he said and then a not-so-supervised newspaper, it doesn't matter, it's important to me that somewhere public it's public, that the Financial Security Act is in one good part brought in for Sinishi Mali's company to deal with factoring. Hello, do you have laws? I'm sorry about this. Hello. So the Financial Security Act says that financial security contracts and factoring companies are subject to a financial security contract. But not according to this contract and not so they can trade MPLs. So, please, don't use the grains of truth, one definition, that the factoring belongs to the financial sector and that anyone is making a story out of it that should, what should, harm the authorities by mocking authority or good law. I ask you not to mock me in the matter of the law and in the subject of what I do. So factoring companies are part of the financial sector, but they can enter into contractual relations with banks and only with banks and the subject of security can be money and securities of value. There's no MPL store. Yes, it wasn't your question, but it's someone like you, untrue and directed against the law and to discredit the law. And I answer your question, and I answer that other question. So, please, Article 4. The law, where the definition of factoring is, and Article 9, that credit claims are provided with money and securities of value can be subject to this law. And who can give credit? It writes – only a bank or other person who can grant credit under the law. A lot of people know me. They know I've been in public life since 1992. I haven't come from the streets, naked or barefoot. I came from the assistant director of the bank. I have knowledge and experience to talk about these things and to defend these laws as we have written them, because they are in the interest of these citizens, in the interest of investors and better security, but above all, in the interest of the state of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance in borrowing, the National Bank by its repo business and everyone else. And we introduce the most modern instruments that need to increase the safety of all investors, i.e. the responsibility of other parties that enter into mutual contractual relations. The question as to how you asked, I will open it on purpose, although some have forgotten – bought the National Bank blinded A-8. I said it wasn't an Audi 8 ris paper so you wouldn't see it. You can't buy it and put it in your pocket. But it's kind of openly thrown in public like that, oiling a Yorgovan woman with tar and pounding feathers. You will not discourage me by such a kind of insinuation, asking questions, even in this holy house, that each of us should create a name for reputation and pride, not by using the right to ask or inform citizens publicly. The public and the secret of bank control procedures, you know it's not just like that, you know that everything that comes through the control report, when it's publicly published, is actually a chart that anyone else can discredit that other bank. I'm sorry, I'm not gonna let this create unfair competition or harm anyone. In the same way as the data is protected by law and how they must and are, because it's a world standard, that the bank control report is a secret. Please ask the ECB, the FED or anywhere. You'll never get information about a single bank. The international monetary fund with which we have an arrangement, a partnership relationship, does not have individual data from the National Bank of Serbia, but aggregated, not granulated to individual elements that could damage the bank. As long as I have to explain to you that for these very reasons, a true, pure, reliable control of the National Bank, whose no decision has been made in the Administrative Court, there is a need for a member of 86 as a kind of protection to the inspectors. There's a questionable decision, and I'm not embarrassed to talk about it. It was issued in 2012, in June, when it was fined by one particular bank members of the board of directors. We were annulled because at the time the National Bank served as an instrument for achieving some other goals, but I will never stand behind it, nor will I allow the National Bank of Serbia to be any instrument for achieving some goals beyond those defined by law. Please, people who represent the National Bank, me who I am governor, you can raise questions of every kind and seek responsibility of every kind, but also in that, I will repeat, should be a man, and that is both the easiest and the hardest. For some, it's very difficult - a man, and it has to be a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37853	Right on the line, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37854	In 2012, so, three banks punished, that is, if it's given to a board member or an executive board or a Piraeus or a KBC, and there have been small penalties, so much so that we can clear it up, because I have all your internal reports that you have marked as "the official secret". I'm still saying that the tax evasion that banks are doing, so it was 30 billion from 2007 to 2016, and that's how -- through simulated clean jobs. The bank means to the daughter of the firm to give the loan, then write it off. That's one way. The second is to write a mortgage into the property of the bank, instead of going to the mortgage. They thus reduce their profits and reduce the base for profit tax and avoid paying the state tax. Then you have to discuss it with the president of the state, because then, at that meeting when we spoke, it wasn't slow whether it was happening or not, just why they couldn't take action against the banks, but here it is up to you, we'd ask ourselves, we'd get the banks in line. That's what you have to say. Secondly, I don't know why, there is no need for your anxiety, Mrs Tabakovic, simple parliamentary issues are legitimate matters and certain claims made by the MPs, you cannot prohibit us from asking questions. We've asked a specific question, you've given a concrete answer, I've been in this second case where Metals Bank called for a procedure conducted in front of the Senior Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, where, if the prosecutor is doing the right thing, and you'll be called to listen to you in that procedure, so there's no need to be angry with me or anything insinuating. Everything I've said, I've spoken to material evidence, and fellow MPs know it. Whether it's crime or money laundering that banks do where there are millions of conversations from the Balkan warrior, we can listen to audio recordings, see how bankers in Serbia launder money, whether, for example, with Intesa bank, Intes bank gives you 15,000 euros in cash every month. You want to hear the serial numbers of the bills, and what person brings you? If we have to, we can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37855	The word has the governor, Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37856	First of all, I ask you to request a report for all the competent authorities, according to the Rules of Procedure, all the guests, I consider myself a guest, have the same rights and MPs who are here as MPs. In that capacity, I ask the authorities to examine two things. First, a statement by Mr. MP who said, quote - I have all your reports that are marked "secret". I would like to examine how the MP came up with a report called "secret", not by someone's private assessment, but by some way he could not be considered permitted. Two, I ask that for a public hearing of any authority in this country that is competent to invite me, the MPs and those who have ever given me anything, anything at all, and not just this pointless nonsense, senseless nonsense, it seems to me, because when you are offended by your right to say so, you have now spoken an MP on the subject of Inthesa or cash in cash. I spend my time at the National Bank from morning to night. My movements are probably followed by the organs that have to follow, I'm doing a serious job, and you should be ashamed of yourself and I'm asking for a public apology when it's determined that you're telling a notorious lie, publicly to apologize to me. I really think you have any honors and cheeks you'd say – should I accuse that woman who is 58 years old and did not come here in an honorary manner and put an accusation in her face. Basically, I wonder – what is your interest in talking about the governor in such a way? What's your interest, what's your motive? That, I hope, will be determined by the competent authorities, and I am one of the proceedings in which one of the newspapers called me that there was some hacks in the job without qualifications sued the court, but I'm not talking about it very much because I care about justice, because I have a grandson who is four years old now and I don't ever want to get into Google to get the fake news that you and those who train you to act like that, and I don't, because I don't deserve it. I'm both mother and mother-in-law, I will be, if Bod does, and mother-in-law, and I am also someone's daughter-in-law, and I carry my face and my late husband and my family, and it's a shame that you treat me like this. I carry the burden of being a public figure, but you should carry the burden of telling lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37857	A fellow Nogo, members 103. The constitution is said that the MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility for an opinion expressed or voting in the exercise of his parliamentary function. However, that the provision of the Constitution implies freedom of speech, not speaking to anyone who wills and comes to his senses, without any arguments to accuse people. If you have something, here you go, there are government authorities for it. Notify the competent state authorities, if they do not act, then inform the public. Now because you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly, you are told a reminder in accordance with Article 108. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37858	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor of the National Bank, Mrs Tabakovic, with associates, respected co-workers of the Ministry of Industry, we from the SNS will support and vote in favour of the laws on the day-to-day work. In my presentation, I will focus on the loan agreement. It is about additional funding for the second Serbian Health Development Project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The financing of the project was initiated by the early-aligned loan of 29,100,000 euros, completed 10. Seven. In 2014, the loan became effective on 8 May 2015 with the deadline for completion of the project 30.9. 2019. The second Serbia Health Development Project includes an additional 25m euros in loans, and the agreement was signed with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 21 May 2018. The project aims to improve the quality of the public health system in the Republic of Serbia, improve health financing, support for reforms in the financing of hospitals and primary health care institutions, increase the efficiency of the procurement of medicinal products and medical equipment, centralised procurement, improvement of the equipment maintenance system, improvement of the provision of health services and clinical efficiency, especially in the field of prevention and control of chronic non-infectious diseases, as well as improvement in the management of cancers, monsters of the 21st century, both in the world and in ours. So the project will be extended for another three years, until December 31st, 2021, with the funds available for another four months after the project is completed. There are really comprehensive reforms in the health system. The components of the project are under one – improving funding in the health system, under two – enhanced access to quality health care, under three – strengthening the quality of health care services. Each of these mentioned components has its sub-components and further development of the health development plan. The health ministry is indeed constantly making efforts to establish a faster, more efficient and more quality health system in Serbia. In this direction, in addition to the construction of new and reconstruction of existing health facilities, procurement of new medical equipment and apparatus, the Ministry intensively implements the policy of staff empowerment of the healthcare system by hiring young medical professionals and approving the professional training of doctors, i.e. specialisation. In the previous year, I would point out some of the most significant results of the work, which is the beginning of the work of the Clinical Centre, the new KC in my hometown of Nis, the acquisition and start of new six linear accelerators, the application of the electronic recipe, the implementation of an integrated health information system, the construction of a modern centre for X knife in KC Serbia, the employment of healthcare professionals and specialisation and free preventive checks for citizens, a total of more than 170,000 citizens for nine days of action and such activities will continue. And finally, for the sake of time, I would like to say that the results of the work of the governors of the National Bank, Mrs Tabakovic and the National Bank, whose head she is at, are extraordinary and that no one can dispute, regardless of the evil comments, will always be there. We from the SNS want you to continue this successful work in the future for the sake of Serbian citizens, for all of us who trust the President of the Republic, Mr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you, and this has been demonstrated by the election results so far since 2012 and to this day and will continue further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37859	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37860	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected governor, colleagues and colleagues, amending and supplementing the Law proposed by the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Business Companies and Banks will contribute to the regulation of the financial market and I believe that they are in the interest of citizens and that they will facilitate the business of economic operators. For the sake of time, I won't be able to talk about each law individually, but I will try to look at them with two aspects, first it concerns business operators and second it protects consumers. So first, by adopting these laws, we will provide additional guarantees primarily to economic operators, so that they can use the benefits of electronic business without delay. It is also important and it is obvious that the NBS proposal continuously works to restore and determine citizens' confidence in the banking system. We must not forget that the basic objectives of an efficient financial system are financial stability, stability of financial sector companies, as well as adequate protection of consumers, investors and insurance companies. The law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts creates conditions for users in this area to have access to a wider range of financial services, so from now on, by adopting these laws, I hope they will not be limited to the place of residence only. This will also enable them to save money, but also savings in time, because they will use the Internet as a modern method of communication when they do this kind of work. Research also shows that citizens and economic operators are increasingly using modern payment methods. This unequivocally suggests that information technologies will be increasingly used in the future when new contracts are concluded. The fact is that payment cards are becoming more popular, both on the foreign market and on the domestic market. And statistics say that in our country there is an increase in the number of transactions made with payment cards. In 2012, the number of these transactions amounted to 80 million, 2017, data indicate that it amounts to around 170 million transactions. This is why it is important to improve and modernise payments in the country and abroad and to encourage the development of non-cash payments, as this prevents the size of operations in the gray zone. The second aspect of these laws that I'm going to refer to concerns consumers. It is very important for us from the SDPS to protect citizens in the financial market. That is why we will also support these laws, because they provide adequate protection to financial services users, especially natural persons, as economically weaker to the contracting party. Also, the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in Remote Contracts will allow all information to be provided to customers in relation to financial services from the pre-contractual stage, so that they will be adequately informed, allowing them to properly consider the financial service offered to them. In order for the user to be free of error or payment, the law has clearly defined this area, which means that the total fee offered to the customer is shown through information that includes accompanying costs, such as: A commission, tax, which falls on the customer's burden. The law regulates and the right to give up the contract, the right to terminate the contract, and precise deadlines are defined when possible. The law on interbank fees and specific rules of business in payment-based transactions introduces a newspaper that will improve both citizens and traders' position in relation to banks. So far, the interbank fees in our country have been among the largest in Europe, now being limited to 0.3% for credit cards and 0.2% of the value of the debit card transaction. These proposals will establish a more fair framework for business. I hope that by adopting the proposed laws, we will take another good step towards stabilising the financial system and fully transforming the banking system that will enjoy trust both citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37861	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37862	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the people, honored guests, respected citizens of Serbia, we have been present since Friday most of the sessions we hear about the great and historic successes of the government and the NBS, about the great progress on the Duing Business List, about how our currency is almost the strongest in the world and how these new laws will contribute to making the situation even better in the future. It is also a rare opportunity to talk directly to a governor who has not shown up in public lately, and I do not remember that she has appeared once in the Serbian Parliament, and I am glad that this is mostly an unscathed and peaceful debate in which we are all trying very constructively to participate. Since I am a great supporter of such a way of discussing, I want to say that I think that there are good solutions in these laws that will really help to improve the situation in this area and fix it, but since the governor spoke about logic herself, if indeed so and if these solutions are so good, I don't want to challenge it, not particularly in advance, because I don't tend to do it, if it's really so, which is why this is another session that's called in a way that's very problematic, and which in this Assembly has become the usual way of working, that almost no one ever looks back on it anymore. I've said more than once that, no matter what almost nobody notices anymore, I'll every time point out that this way of convening the session and the work is inappropriate and that I'll never get used to the inappropriate way of doing it. Namely, as a supporter of security work and as someone who works hard, as well as many of my colleagues do, I have to ask why. Here, the governor said that many of these laws were being prepared for a long time, that there was a lot of thought and talk about them, which is why it is necessary for them to get into congregation procedure just a few days ago, of course, I don't think anyone can dispute this. That the session is scheduled again within a short period of time and that what has been happening since the end of last year, which is that colleagues from the ruling majority are submitting a huge number of amendments to the first members of the first law. I'm just, like the governor, trying to find logic in all this. I have to say, I'm not finding her, because if all this is so good, then why not let the material that I think contains more than 1,000 pages not be studied properly? Which is why we limit one discussion in which we can discuss this large number of laws, a large number of new solutions, and then it would be inappropriate to call it in a regular time, to allow them to read and explain the amendments normally, because this is how it looks to me like one image that is presented in public, which is actually completely different. I mean, I don't belong to any government, not the past, not the present. My assignment here is as an independent MP, to just provide, to try to provide both the ruling majority and all my colleagues with a mirror and to show you what what you're saying really looks like. Now, are you going to see something and what you're going to see in that mirror, that's already quite a question for you. I'm going to add just this argument that the constant repetition of the citizens' choice and that the citizens chose this power by a vast majority, which is true, and it keeps repeating some kind of disaster brought by members of the former government, which I am stressing again, I did not belong to. The government was also elected to most citizens, but that is no proof that the government was good.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37863	My colleague, Chabraya, you have one minute left. At least keep that last minute on the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37864	Here, I'll be back on the subject. I would take the opportunity to repeat that I think there are good solutions in these laws. I'd like to ask the governor something about this takeover of these workers, 60 taxpayers. We had a similar situation when we were talking about starting a public administration academy, so I'm interested in what it takes? I don't want to be paranoid, I don't want to say it's because of some kind of centralization, some partocrat, or any bad reason, but just nobody talked about it, so I'd like to ask. And to ask what I think would really all citizens, I don't think, but I know that all citizens ask, and that's why, if we're so good at the financial sphere, what makes our incomes so low? Why is purchasing power so low? Then why do people live so badly? I don't think anyone can deny it. I really see one big contradiction there. I don't mean to attack anyone, but I just want to ask how it's possible, if we have one of the strongest currencies in the world, and if we're making so much progress, how is that possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37865	Thank you. The word has a governor, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37866	Here, I'll tell you this about taking over 64 employees from the Foreign Office. They should be taken over, or I can say freely returned to where their natural location is, because some kind of work is done and done at the NBS. In view of the fact that a reform of the tax administration is being carried out in which everything that is not essential to the basic non-participation is being carried out from the tax administration itself so that it can be more efficient to deal with its business, this is the moment at which the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act is assessed to oversee the conduct of exchange operations and foreign currency inspectorates, which is a natural continent, because the NBS is engaged in both foreign and foreign exchange policy, and should also work and control that part of the job, will be part of our system. There's no problem that these people who used to work at the NBS, many have forgotten it, go back to the NBS and continue their work. Simply, that's why we're uniting all these control and surveillance functions over what's the natural continent of the work we're doing. The fact that it's going for the better, the data is obvious. They're not impressions, they're facts. About never going as fast as we'd like, that's also a fact. It's simple in human nature to be dissatisfied. But it seems that everything and not wasting time, that there are no empty walkways, that there is no disagreement in this forward movement that needs to be made possible through greater employment and a better standard, it is simply undeniable, we are working on it and everyone who cheers, who cheers on the side and those who contribute, we are grateful to help us because we are all citizens of Serbia. There is simply no place for enmity here, we are just political inexperience, but I guess we all have the citizens' interest above all else, and in that sense I welcome your desire to continue in the constructive atmosphere one conversation that needs to contribute to improving results. If you're asking me, why is this session scheduled? A long debate, not a secret preparation, a public debate and a short time, I'm not saying it's completely incompatible, but I was an MP and I know that you can't follow public debate while you're here every day. But we also have to say that you weren't out of work, you were working all the time. So, we didn't, you didn't, we waited, and you didn't work, so now we remembered something and brought you the agenda. It's simple, the dynamics of your work, the extensive legislative activity that we respect and the order that we, as students, have caught now to infiltrate this June semester, I hope it will show that we haven't gone out with any hasty solutions. If you're asking me why the debate is connected, it's no longer. It might be worth it, and maybe it wouldn't be worth it. You know what they say, if someone you receive can't tell you what he wanted to say in five minutes, the question is, did you have to take him in? It's not a general rule, we'll have a discussion in detail and we're open to talking about everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37867	Thank you. The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37868	Thank you, Chairman. The respected ministers with associates, the esteemed governor of the NBS, dear colleagues, in the context of a debate that is ahead of us, and about payment service laws, payment cards, bankruptcy, companies, we've had a lot of discussions. A good part of the discussion, almost all, went in a positive direction, but there are also a few who have been in the light of criticism. But I can't ignore them, but I can't even give them meaning just because they didn't suggest anything, and they resented it. Give me a solution. By the way, they don't have much weight. For example, in addition to having a bankruptcy law, which is on the agenda, and it is really completely well-determined this time because it determines the payment regime for creditors, but we also have a law on companies that define the full position of legal persons. But what makes us absolutely safe is the monetary policy run by the NBS. The National Bank of Serbia is in charge of providing security and fixed values, stable dinar values. The value of dinars is made possible and stable only because we have a good projection of inflation and because we run a good fiscal policy. Thus, at the beginning of 2018, we have already established that inflation projections are low and the May projection found that by the end of that period there will be no greater than 3±1.5%, and if we consider that we have a GDP increase, this certainly has been affected by the increase in investment of large ones in the last period. We can expect to have a large export. By doing so, we allow companies to live in Serbia, work and earn money from their jobs. In addition to micro and macro elements, which certainly make today safe, citizens what interests is how to ensure the safety of their business, or transaction by payment cards. People were untrustworthy of payment cards. Today, however, we cannot imagine transactions without debit or credit cards. In the period between 2012 and 2017, we have a significant increase and a jump in transactions from 81 million in 2012, 140 million in 2016, up to 170 million transactions in 2017, and that is for every praise. Besides, the important role of payment cards, besides raising money and paying, is that we can make our payments online and saves time and immediately finish whatever you need, whether you are paying for services or buying some products. What is also important, from my point of view, is that since 1 January 2019, the National Bank has taken over this activity which is currently in the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration, which is related to giving, enabling, but also taking over exchange operations, as well as foreign exchange operations. Why does it matter? The National Bank of Serbia is the one who takes care of all transactions in the money market and whether there is something that is a suspicious transaction and determines indicators of both banking business and stock exchanges, of course, but also in exchange transactions that will take over. What's important is that every shifter knows, when a client comes to him -- does he come with a large amount of money, so he wants to replace those larger denominations into some smaller ones, does he come with a face, does he not want to legislate? It's all things that need to be known and things that need to be taken care of. Therefore, since you are leading and prescribing such policies, it enables us to have a secure monetary policy and the stability of dinars, certainly that, of course, the Ministry of Economy also allows not only large businessmen, legal persons, but also micro, small and medium-sized people to work fully and fully. In voting day, I will support all these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37869	Thank you. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Two more minutes and 46 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37870	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed governor with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, the JS parliamentary group, headed by Dragan Markovic Palm, is giving absolute and great support to the adoption of all laws in the National Assembly. The JS parliamentary group will also support any proposed financial laws submitted by the National Bank of Serbia in the decision-making day. Given that I have very little time left, I will not explain all the laws individually, but I will say that we will give absolute support to all the laws, and that we will support all the loan agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is therefore agreements for further development of health care, for the development of public enterprises and financial institutions. Serbian citizens know that this government is working responsibly and that we are passing all laws in the interests of Serbian citizens. The proposed laws by the National Bank of Serbia, the finance ministry show the monetary and financial stability in which Serbia is heading, show that we today have a good fiscal policy, the stability of the dinars and, what is very important to us from the JS parliamentary group, we have stability to bring investors and better security of citizens of Serbia. Of course, these laws that you have proposed are also your continuous and good work, the distinguished governor, and the parliamentary group will certainly support all these laws. Serbia is now recognised in the world, so it took a long time to regain confidence that Serbian citizens, but also other countries that now have a completely different picture of our country. So these international agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development are indications that Serbia is believed. The JS parliamentary group is on the ground daily with citizens of Serbia, and we know the problems citizens face and faced during the previous period. A large number of problems are being solved in continuity, such as salary increases, pensions have now been increased, however, in the coming period there will be a significant increase in pensions, but there are also problems that we have to solve, which are lagging behind in the past. As a JS MP, I must point out the fact, especially to you, the esteemed governor, that we have a problem still lagging behind, when it comes to citizens of Serbia who are over-indebted in the Swiss francs, that this programme, although this government is not responsible for such a thing, even though it is making efforts to solve such problems, we must find a common and general solution to such a problem as to ease or resolve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37871	The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic. You've got two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37872	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, has little time left. We heard a lot of good debate here today and a lot of what is good from what was done in the previous six years during Governor Tabakovic's term in office at the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. As someone who has spent 18 years working in banks, banking system, since 1990 and 18 years ago, I can confirm that all of these things that we have talked about today are very important, and operationally about how important all of this is, and about the payment system, the improvement and reform of the banking system, very important and important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and for the economy that will be able to implement all of these reform things that have happened in the banking system in its everyday work to achieve significantly better, faster things, will be free of all the things that have burdened everyday work and what is very important, that in future work, even better results and effects will be achieved. I would just point out that it is very important and important that, in addition to all these reform things that have been done in these previous six years, i.e. only to mention reducing inflation, maintaining a stable course of dinars, etc., it is very important to mention that by reducing the reference rate of the National Bank to 3% the conditions for reducing interest rates to loans, to new dinar loans to citizens and businesses, which is very important and important for the further life and work of citizens and businesses in the Republic of Serbia. In addition, the law adopted in 2014 on the insurance system, the Insurance Act, is also very important and important to mention because this law and the law and the citizens and the economy will be protected, will allow them to do all their things, which they do through that insurance system to have more significant and better protection. Also, by applying all these more effective measures, by reducing the reference rate, by reducing inflation, the share of risky and problematic loans not chargeable compared to the total credit portfolio of banks has been reduced to 9.2% of the total credit arrangements, which is also at the historic minimum since 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37873	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask – do they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Comrade Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37874	Dear Ministers, the esteemed governor, at the end of the debate that has been going on for two days now, we can conclude that the public debate practically preceded this debate in the Serbian Parliament, which was short for some and for some others, as well as the debate in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, has given the impression that there are no fundamentally significant objections to this law. The laws proposed by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the National Bank, or normative acts, will certainly contribute to making their systems more efficient and efficient and better in functioning. The political stability that results primarily from the electoral will of Serbian citizens has contributed to Serbia's full macroeconomic stability. This macroeconomic stability is based on fiscal and monetary stability. The National Bank is part of monetary stability and certainly the inflation rate tells how well Serbia is at the moment arranged, calm and economically advanced. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37875	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a heavy empty bag. A famous saying. In 2012 in the summer, not that the bag was empty, but under the bag was another void. There is another proverb that says: “It’s hard to host an empty house. ” The big question is, did that house exist? It's hard in the house with the bare walls, to fill the house quickly. When the house turned almost to dust in 2012, fortunately the people chose someone to build the house. But in order for the house to be built out of dust, first you have to make mud, you have to bake a brick, you have to bake a tick, and then you have to patiently brick, by brick, to build that house, to build it on the right foundations, to keep it solid and steady. I think we're on the verge of creating such a house, which will please all of our citizens. So, what I want, that's what a good host wants for his hosts. It is that, by the quality of life and by standard, we will be leading in the Balkans and one day catch up with modern, developed countries. In 2012, on the change, I think the deficit was already close to two billion, we had a failed Agrobank, the Development Bank. What was popular became theirs. They gave everything to themselves, while they took everything from the people. They put themselves in castles and fairy tales, and they sent the people into the fables and into the streets. It's a wonder to me that today some have two fingers of cheeks that even makeuprs in make-up rooms in televisions where they can't find, that they have the courage to express some regrets today about monetary economic policy, that before what they left behind was a total failure. It was not a problem nor a debt that was 17 billion at the end of 2012, the problem was that they did not create a source for debt returns, there was no infrastructure, no economy, the economy was sold out. In Belgrade with 235,000 jobs in production, they reached 23,000 employees. There were more pensioners than employees. No pensions were reduced, grants were cut to pensioners who reached almost 50% in their time. Increased employment, low unemployment, that's 30% now. And instead of confessing to the authorities on the success that has been achieved, on low inflation, on a stable course, on an increased gross domestic product from production, not from services like them, to buy foreign goods for someone else's money, and through services you show some false growth of gross domestic product. Instead of giving recognition on larger foreign reserves and on a better structure, instead of giving recognition to what exports are growing, what employment is growing, what interest is far lower, instead of saying "Thank you to the government" which in six years has returned over six billion interest, and today they wonder why the nominal debt has increased, it has dropped in percentages. Instead of saying "Thank you", they have shame, shame and cheek to express some regrets. They've never raised production. Their main product was long, imagination and illusion. They're talking against "Biograda on Water" today. Those who had Belgrade in the fog. Those who delivered to the people, they say, were not false promises. I agree, because they were full of imaginations and illusions. They weren't fake, but they sold the people fog, cut into cubes, proselyted on a large grate. We could have heard anything from them these few days, except for some good suggestions. I advise them to say in the future – thank you, the ruling majority, for what she has done so far, but we think we can do better. We think we can do it like the Wolf of Jeremic. We think that when we come to power, that's what they say, they should tell us again, we think that Gilasa is back in power. A man hasn't done well since he hasn't tied up his function to a private business. I'd understand that. I would understand his left hand, Borko Stefanovic, but I would understand his right hand, Boška left-handed, St. Boskovic kills his wife, as it was. And today we witnessed a similar attack. They're women's specialists. When they attack women, they simply fall from verbal and physical assault. So I believe Gilas hasn't recently recovered, but the wolf's offspring are getting thinner. He can no longer spend private, or state money to chase private donations. The financial international scandal and connections that Vuk Jeremic has shown as very important and stately are the best evidence of their ability. That's why I'm telling them to say they can do better, but they won't hang out with Jeremic and Gilas, with mutibarics, peljesanovics and cheaters. I expected some new political forces to say that and say that they will not be with those who are not afraid of God, people are not ashamed. They didn't tell us today. They're about to express some regrets, and I'm telling them. I was saying I couldn't skip a few steps, that we had to step by step. Merdevine success all together, united, raise this country. But they see the ladder of success differently from us. We don't think we can climb these ladders of success with our hands in our pockets and have to spend time in work, effort, computer, power, power, behind the plow, not on the couch in the cafe, and gossiping about the power that results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-04-0.u37877	Thank you. (Srdian Nogo: Replica. You have no basis for replication. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principled Single Search on the proposals for the act referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. We're working on Wednesday at ten o'clock. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 16.50 a.m.]]
