ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-24-0.u42827	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall. We continue our work and move on to a decision on the agenda points of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I'm putting the bill of law on human cells and tissues to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, most of the votes. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ljiljana Mihajlovic, a national MP, submitted the amendment's proposal. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-24-0.u42828	I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title of the bill, which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—two against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milisav Petronijevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Daniela Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Marjana Marash. I conclude the vote: for eight, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Paunovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Danica Bukvic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 which, with correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Neđo Jovanovic and Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Dinic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Josip Broz. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put to the vote Amendment 1 submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put to the vote Amendment One, which was tabled by MP Milovan Drecun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put to the vote Amendment 1 submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 2 submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Free Members Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, against – for – there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—four against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, against – for – there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Natasa Sp Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Danica Bukvic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for five against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milorad Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for eight, against eight. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for eight, against eight. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for eight, against eight. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for nine against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for five against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I'm closing the vote: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I'm closing the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I'm closing the vote: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I'm closing the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I'm closing the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I'm closing the vote: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I'm closing the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I'm closing the vote: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Chapter II above Article 4 submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, with an amendment, submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – ten, against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – ten, against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 7, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the amendments proposing amendments in Articles 9, 14, 22, 23, 25, 28, 29, 31, 35, 36, 38 and 52, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 10, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the 16th article, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 21 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Article 22, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was submitted by MP Zorana Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 25th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 25, which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 28 which have been tabled by five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 28, which were jointly submitted by MP Sandra Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 to the vote, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 29 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 36, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 39, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 42, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 44, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 48, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 49, with a correction, which has been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 49, which was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic, I am concluding the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 49 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 51, which have been tabled by six MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 52, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 52 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 53, which has been tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 54, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I'm putting the bill of law on human cells and tissues in general. I conclude the vote: for - 145 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - three, of a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on human cells and tissues. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting to vote the bill on human organ transplants, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 145 MPs, against – one, abstention – two, of a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to the name of the bill submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of Chapter 1 above Article 1 of the amendment to be voted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment, Parliamentarian Gorica Gajic, I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Title II above Article 4 submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Article 4 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, by which five MPs from the Free Members Group have proposed amendments to the article. 13, 17, 20, 23, 26, 32, 33, 37, 39, 52 and 53. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 14 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which is proposed after Article 16a, which was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 18, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 23, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions – has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Nada Kostic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 23 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 24 which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 25th vote, which was tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 25, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 25, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 25, which was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 30, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 30, which was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 35 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 42 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 43rd vote tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 44, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 44 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 44 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 44, which was tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 45th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 46, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 46, which was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 51 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 53, which has been tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 53, which was tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belacic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the bill on human organ transplants, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – two abstentions – there are none, of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on human organ transplants. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – has, of course, a total of 149. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, in the same text, on Article 2 submitted by MP Vjerica Radet and MP Branka Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft amending and supplementing laws on psychoactive controlled substances in general. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – no one, the abstentioned – has, of the total 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Additional Protocol between the Republic of Serbia and the International Atomic Energy Agency under the Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the Application of Guarantees concerning the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office (number 119-2478/18 of 10 July 2018), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – there is no one, with abstentions, out of the 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office (number 119-2507/18 of 13 July 2018), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – there is no one, the abstentioned one, out of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – none of the abstentions – there is a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – there is no one, the abstentioned one, out of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – there is no one, the abstentioned one, out of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. National MP Verica Radet, at a session on July 17th, at 13 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 107th and 116th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: no one, against – one, with abstention – has any. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, at a session on July 17th, at 15 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on July 17, 2018, at 15 hours and 54 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 106, paragraphs 2 and 3 and Articles 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vesna Nikolić Vukajlović, at a session on 20 July 2018, at 16 hours and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 20 July 2018, at 18 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
