ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already asked Prime Minister Ana Brnabic several times to replace Minister Dusan Vujovic because of concrete criminal affairs, and it seems that he is going to cover up these affairs and that the prime minister will only be satisfied with his resignation. The affairs are so great that it must not remain left behind, all details must be known to the public. I don't claim to know all the details, but what I do know is large enough for Dusan Vujovic to go to jail. First, Dusan Vujovic, as finance minister, is responsible for inaction with the situation in the Management and Executive Committee of the Commercial Bank. You know that the state has 36% stake in the Commercial Bank, it's had more than that before, and it deliberately undermines the value of the Commercial Bank so it can be a wake-up call for sale. There are combinations made with the EBRD, i.e. the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Then, Minister Vujovic, who took over his functions and roles in the Commercial Bank, made connections with the EBRD, seemed to have had a certain package of shares in the Commercial Bank, and it was his gateway to enter into an arrangement with the current Nazi regime in Kiev, Ukraine, and that he was working there professionally to rebuild Ukrainian railways, and the plan and programme is worth billions of euros. The plan is for the current Ukrainian government to turn all rails of the broad track into railways, so-called railways. European normal track. So, from a Russian high standard to a Central European Standard. This is, therefore, such a big deal that Ukraine will suffer for all time, and the EBRD can fail there, it is only important that some people from the management of that bank will take huge money and that Dusan Vujovic will also participate in the distribution of money as an independent member of the Management Board of the Ukrainian Railways. Can you imagine? Serbia's Finance Minister has become an independent member of the Ukrainian Railways Management Board. This is about withdrawing harmful loans. You know that so much investment in railways mindlessly, just to make rails change, it requires huge money, and it doesn't make any profit, absolutely no profit, even the new rails are rising to set these with a European standard. His connection with the managers of this European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was crucial for his engagement, but of course he is not too small and his wife's role, who participates there in various mafia affairs, she is otherwise Ukrainian, but in Budva has a seat, there is her seat, because there is best going under all the legal controls. You know, in the current Montenegro, the mafia has completely freed its hands and no one is involved in suppressing these activities. (President: Time. Thank you. You used five minutes. I'm not finished yet. Just two more seconds. They also had contacts with the U.S. Embassy in Kiev on that basis. One more question for you, Madam President of the National Assembly, if you don't give me this, I'll have to go to the Rules of Procedure. Have you been informed that Nenad Canak continues to savagely in the Assembly and that without any consultation he has called Vioce Osmani Sadria, the beautiful woman's name Vioce, she is the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of this outlaw parliament,
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35189	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: To come and be a guest of the National Assembly on 11 and 12 May, to be a guest in this assembly) I cannot answer the first question, to the second question I have no knowledge, I will check and certainly Members of the so-called Parliament. a state that Serbia has not recognised, I cannot come because they do not have an official call from the head or the assembly, or the president, or the government. I guarantee, if it's any different, I'm ready to go. Ambassador Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35190	I ask my question to the Prime Minister or Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, and indirectly to the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Marko Đuric, but above all, the Prime Minister as the most responsible person for politics in the state of Serbia. The question is, then I will explain what the government intends to do and whether it intends to do anything politically and institutionally about the scandal, and I am responsiblely using the word scandal with the presence of all leaders so-called. Serbian lists, celebrating the Alliance's 18-year future for Kosovo, Ramush Haradinaj, Pristina, on Thursday (May 3rd). So, we disagree here, although we should agree in essence, but we probably disagree on the details of what is appropriate and what is the right solution to the Kosovo problem, although the constitution should also restrict us in that diapazon of possible views and opinions, but whatever you think and whatever you think of the Kosovo issue, and as much as some say the necessary dialogue with and participation of Serbian citizens in the province's government, me and my colleagues disagree with that, but still, someone might think otherwise. But, whatever you may think, it is absolutely unacceptable and scandalous that the president of the Serbian List, who was elected with the direct support of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia and the director of the Office of Mark Djuric, who, as we know, organised a celebration along with the leaders of the Serb list, on the results of the parliamentary elections in Kosovo for the Pristina parliament. So, in these conditions, those people who are practically so presented to our public as some exposition or political group that has the direct support of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president attends the celebration, not to the private celebration, so not to the institutions in Pristina, but to the private celebration of war crimes suspects, for the most serious war crimes such as Ramush Haradinaj, Fatmi LJimaj and Kadri Vesenji, a list of Serb arrest warrants, persons who, for a little while, even The Hague tribunal, gave mysteriously not the missing witnesses or the missing witnesses who were to accuse and who accused Ramush Haradinaj and his comrades. So here we have photographs that seem to be of no interest to the local public, the most important people, MPs and ministers and deputy ministers of the so-called Ministers. Serbian lists attending the celebration and the joy, the private party of Kadri Vesenji, Ljim and Karadinaj. We cannot close our eyes to that fact nor justify it by having to participate in dialogue to help citizens of Serbia living on KIM. This is only help to those faces and their functions. By the way, I think that these pictures from this celebration, so where do the smiling faces of Serbian MPs appear, have been answered by my colleague Slavo Ristic, who asked a dozen days ago – what about the resignations of the Serbian list in the government of Kosovo, because they announced it after the beating and the harassment of Mark Djuric? He asked what's wrong with that? We received the answer in terms of these smiling photographs, i.e. photographs with the smiling Haradinaj and the smiling leaders of the so-called. Serbian lists. Of course, compromises are necessary sometimes, sometimes painful compromises. This is not that, however, this is an excessive and unnecessary humiliation, not only of these people, because it is their private matter, but also of the states of Serbia behind these people. That's why I expect a clear reaction, so also the Prime Minister, and I repeat my appeal that I made here when she was visiting. That sounds nice, and her stories and Mr. Ivica Dacic, we don't admit it, we won't admit it, etc. From where you can think that they might admit or accept something unfavourable for Serbia and Serbs there, and then we look at these images that represent a confrontation of the Serbia state's debauchery. I repeat my appeal to the Prime Minister that he should rest Mark Djuric, whether he knew about this and approved it or did not know that the people he had extended directly participate in the private celebration and party, so the heads of the Kosovo Alliance and the suspects, and founded suspects of various crimes being prosecuted by the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35191	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is Miroslav Aleksic. Here's a colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35192	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question of the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia to Mrs. Ani Brnabic, who are the reasons for the government's reconstruction and whether it will be the government's reconstruction as she announced, given the fact that she announced in March that there is too much personal vanity of individual ministers in the government who have too much just promotions, as she said and pushed their own agenda. I see these days that Minister Vujovic resigned, we hear that his successor will be Sinisa Mali, and this soap opera and these Spanish series that have been going on since 2012. So that reconstruction is likely to stretch throughout the year. This will distract the citizens of Serbia, draw attention from essential, life-threatening problems, from all the major problems that Serbian citizens face. So that reconstruction government won't solve the standard of citizens, no wages, no unemployment, and we don't have anti-building missiles to defend our farmers from the city clouds, but here's the topic. Of course, it won't turn around, it should actually be a reason to get off the topic of what you want to sign, and it's called an agreement with Pristina on non-blocking membership in international institutions. So the question arises, firstly, why Minister Vujovic resigned, whether for personal reasons or because he no longer wanted to listen to the orders of those who are against the state's interests and who are in the interest of the state, those families that are actually running Serbia today. Is the reason for the European Commission report, where it is explicitly stated that Serbia has serious problems with money laundering, with financial controls, with suspicious capital being invested in Serbia? Is the problem also because Serbia has found itself on the FATF blacklist as a state suspected of money laundering and financing international terrorism, because certain laws have not been adopted in financial areas, or is it because Minister Vujovic does not want to work in the cause and interest of those mafia criminal organisations that want to steal money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so it takes someone more capable to enter the government instead, such as Cynthia Mali, the proven master of affairs, the man most recognizable in this government in corruption affairs? Of course, when you bring him to the post of Finance Minister, next to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, with whom he had affairs outside the government and outside of politics, you will probably also bring Igor Isailovic and her brother, Ana Brnabic, and the whole team that was doing private affairs will now be at the head of the state to have the money of the people, to manage Serbia and to continue to deal with corruption, as it has dealt with so far. Sinisa Mali, if he was the finance minister, will have the following references, the Money Laundering Prevention Authority said about Sinisha Malom that he had at least 45 accounts in different banks, that he was paying tens of thousands of euros of unknown origin to his wife and children, from the British Virgin Islands, Ligenssteine, Switzerland and Hong Kong. With one fictitious job, Sinisa Mali has paid 525,000 euros from a Swiss bank account at the expense of Serbia. Sinisha Mali was one of the players of 24 controversial privatisations. Sinisha Mali was one of the actors of the 24 apartment affair in Bulgaria, when he defended that his signature was falsified. He also stood out in an action to bring down objects in Sava Mali, when he proved to be very capable, because during the night he managed to suspend the state. The President of the Republic called him the head of the city government that they were involved in the destruction of objects in Sava Mali, called them complete idiots, and now these complete idiots are probably no longer idiots. Few of them were Belgrade mayors and held other functions, and now they should be finance ministers, so these are the references of the new finance minister. In fact, it is sad for Serbia that an honorable man and a professional, such as Minister Vujovic, is one of the few in this and previous governments of Aleksandr Vukic, leaving this government, and a man like Sinisa Mali comes to his place.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35193	Thank you, fellow Alexic. The word is from a colleague of Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35194	Thank you, President. I ask my first question to Minister Ruzic, and it refers to the problems created in the municipality of Kula. The problem arises from the decision being taken in the SO Tower, with seven committees taking part in the vote, which, in the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency in the conflict of interest, also performs functions and are members of the councils of local communities, and some are even presidents of the council of local communities, which is a serious violation of the Anti-Corruption Act. Another illogicality created in the municipality of Kula is that these are the same committees that were found to be in conflict of interest, in an illegal way they voted against the Anti-Corruption Agency's initiative to resolve the president of the municipality of Periica Vidcanic, I stress. The Ministry of State and Local Self-Government said the committees could only vote in secret, as provided for by the Law and the Statute, but they voted publicly. That, then, is the third violation of the law, because as I say in the Law on Local Self-Government, it decidently stresses that it should be voted in secret. I ask Minister Ruzic if the ministry will be based on article 84. The Law on Local Self-Government repeal the conclusion of SO Kula, on the rejection of the Perica Vidkanić's motion from the post of President of the Municipality of Kula, and this is all under the Law, whether it will honour the Law, and these are five committees of which are two secretaries of the local communities of Sivac and Gornji grad in Kula, and three are members of the Council of the local community. Also a province MP, otherwise a member and head of social action at the SO, a member of the Lower City Executive Board, while Assistant President Tihomir Đuricic, as a council member who voted for the election of the municipality's president, has also become an assistant, which is also conflicts of interest and is set up by the Anti-Corruption Agency. I ask Minister Ruzic – will he act according to the law? I ask again, I don't know which time, Minister Djordjevic – what happens in the company "DES" in Novi Sad. On government issues, when he answered that in the company where 130 disabled persons, mostly deaf, are deaf, it was said that there would be no one in the company fired. These days in "DES" happens that a bankruptcy procedure has been launched, by decision of Director Nenad Romčević and a programme is being developed for the rescue of surplus employees in "DES". Most likely there will be layoffs and this company will either privatise or close, so I ask Minister Djordjevic what will happen to "DES"? Employees in the "DES" only received a January salary, part two, April 10th, and for all those other months, February, March, April, now in May, in mid-May, they got nothing. I don't know what time I'm asking Minister Djordjevic this question. I also ask the question of Prime Minister Brnabic, as regards the arrival of "Tenis", which has been announced at a large door this year, and I ask whether it is true that this company will remain in the parloga after receiving 5,000 hectares of land, if this country will remain in the parloga this year, if this country has been issued, for now it is still state land, who is benefiting from this land, who is paying for the disposal of that land and what is happening with that land? What is the exact value of Tennis' investment, is it 300m euros, as announced, or is it 100m euros, as some media say? How many workers will be employed, and what will be their rights in this company? I wonder if it already knows what technology "Tenis" will bring, will it be technology that is also in Germany, or will it be some special technology that will only apply to Serbia, and surrounding villages will choke in smell and waste water and in everything else that will bring the farm?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35195	Thank you, colleague Papuga. The word has Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35196	I use it to congratulate all citizens of Serbia, patriots and patriots and anti-fascists on the Day of Victory over Fascism, May 9th. I also invite all of you to take a walk tomorrow with the immortal regiment, which starts at 5:00 p.m., from the Memorial Park to the Liberation of Belgrade, across from the New Cemetery in Belgrade. Action participants will walk the streets of several Serbian cities, carrying portraits of their neighbors, thus showing the faces of those who have not obeyed evil and who have defeated fascism. In this regard, I refer the following questions to the President of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Minister of Interior, the Director of BIA, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the Minister of Culture and Information, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the President of the Supreme Court in Belgrade, and, according to his competences: when will the state of Serbia discover the grave site of General Draža Mihajlovic and honor him, along with state honours, the first guerrilla in occupied Europe under the Nazism in World War II? If the members of both anti-fascist movements are even, why is the site of General Mihajlovic's martyrly death still unknown? When will Serbia launch a procedure to determine the identity of the person who was buried, or perhaps not buried, at the Dedinj in the House of Flowers, and why does the state of Serbia continue to celebrate a man without identity, one of the greatest destroyers of the Serbian nation? When will all the mass graves of the victims of communist terror be discovered after the end of World War II and all the victims will be properly buried? When will the names of all the informants who worked for the communist secret service be revealed, what caused many innocent people to die? I remind you that Serbia is one of the few countries under which communism has been under and this has not been done. When will all kidnapped property be returned to all private persons in Serbia by the communist authorities? Why isn't the restitution over and where are the distractions for them to be carried out all the way? When will it become known who the murderers who worked for the communist secret service have liquidated a number of the most prominent Serbian emigrants and anti-communists in the diaspora? I want to stress here that the Dvori, since the beginning of their political action as their primary political goal, had the establishment of national reconciliation and national harmony and as a man from whose family the flower of youth in the most beautiful years, 75 years ago, at Sutjesca, but also in 1945 at Zidana Most, I believe, until it reaches national confidence, primarily here in the Serbian parliament, this state will not be able to move forward. We're sick and tired of handing out brushes and partisans, we need a new patriotism, and we need a style for the times to come. A question for Minister of State and Local Self-Government, Mr Branko Ruzic. During the fourth session of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 3 May 2018, between 15.55 and 16.50, and following the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Bosko Obradovic, Defence Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vulin, who did not serve the military, presented a series of pausal assessments and political pamphlets, as well as a series of slanders and insults directed towards the president of the Dveri parliamentary group, Bosko Obradovic and the entire Dveri parliamentary group, when, among other things, according to stenographic notes, he said: "The antifascism communists challenge the whole of Europe fascists, all of them. Every fascist in Europe thinks communists are evil, all of them. There's no dilemma. They can't talk about them, it's stronger than them. How come the idea from Croatia comes to the Serbian Parliament, to remove bones, to measure something again and count something. The National Assembly can't do that, and especially Ljotic's followers can't do that, because they don't have the right to do that. We're proud of every anti-fascist, whether he's wearing a five-pointer or something, but I know that no Latvian wore an anti-fascist sign. “ So, Minister Vulin marked the ideology in the position and activity of the Serbian Movement Dvora as fascist and now we ask Minister Ruzic to send a reply to whether the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which brought a solution to the entry of the Serbian Movement Dvera on 19 October 2015, to the Register of Political Organisations of the Republic of Serbia, otherwise during the SNS rule, when the government formed the same majority, as found in this session by any Constitution and laws of the Republic of Serbia of the Forbidd Ideas, attitudes or advocacy in the analysis of the Programme and the Statute of the Serbian Movement of Dveri as necessary activities when adopting a solution to the registration of political organisations. With the same programme and the current Statute of Dvori, they went to the Republic elections in 2016 and entered the National Assembly, where they are still present as the Parliament Group of Dveri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35197	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35198	Thank you. A question for the Minister of Health, Zlatibor Lonchar. The morbil epidemic is slowly escalating. It started somewhere in October last year and took 15 lives to this day. It is time to turn around and see what we learned from this, and have we learned anything, so that my question, first of all, is – will Minister Loncar, now, after this experience, finally pay attention to the recommendations of the Institute of Batut, a professional institution that also has a department dealing with immunisation problems, which writes regular annual reports? Reports from 2011 can be found on the Batut Institute site and these reports end with a list of recommendations on how to improve the immuneisation process with us. When you look at that list of recommendations repeated over and over again, which has 15 items, you realize that vaccinations in Serbia are the most responsible for the fall is the Ministry of Health. Responsibility comes down to the fact that it does not listen to the recommendations of professional institutions. The two basic recommendations that are persistently ignored are the main cause of the decline of vaccines in Serbia. One, constant vaccine shortages. Every year we have an interruption in mandatory immunization due to shortages. Another important factor is that from the moment the chosen doctor was introduced into our health, there was a reorganization of the work of a preschool and school dispenser, so while the early children from school were taking them to rehab, it is now exclusively for parents. Parents often work and cannot take their time, so that a certain number of children remain unvaccinated. Then we have a situation where parents take the child to vaccination, and there are no vaccines, and then a certain number of children remain unvaccinated, and so because of these two factors and their combinations, first of all, there is a fall in vaccination. This is what the Batut Institute has persistently warned and urged to do something about it. Since 2011, he's been warning us there's going to be an epidemic. What's more, Beta reported on April 20th that we've now had a shortage of MMR vaccines in New Market. In health institutions in Novi Pazar, this is due to an increased need for vaccination due to an epidemic. The Batut Institute since 2011 says – when we are getting vaccines for the next generation of children, we must also obtain 25% of supplies for the event of an epidemic. It is persistently ignored and the Ministry of Health insists on getting supplies. Here, now in the New Market we see why it matters. I'm asking the Minister of Health to stop running away from responsibility and transfer responsibility to so-called. An antivaccinal lobby, whose effect on the fall in vaccination is negligiblely small. I ask the Minister to pay attention to the recommendations of the Batut Institute, the professional institutions, to go to the system, to bring professional criteria for the registration of vaccines, not only legally, to be sure of the quality of these vaccines, which some parents are complaining about, to stop selling vaccines in pharmacies, resulting in a break in the cold chain, which is also what the Batut Institute requires. I also ask the president of the Health Committee and the family of the National Assembly, Dr. Laketić - will we finally have a public hearing on this subject? On December 4th of last year, I submitted a request to organise a public hearing to discuss this, as this is an extremely important topic for parents, for public health in Serbia, for the return of confidence in the process of immunisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35199	Thank you. The word has Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35200	Thank you. The first question is to refer to the Prime Minister. In response to parliamentary questions, at a session held on the last Thursday of April, the Prime Minister said the following - "Nikola Tesla" Airport concession agreement published on the PPP website, a public-private partnership agreement with Vansi published on a form that can be published at this time on the Ministry of Finance website, I think the Commission for Public-private Partnerships. So all the basic elements of the contract have been published. At the same time, the same day in a response that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic wrote to me on an earlier issue of similar content, said that the contract would be put to the public's attention after receiving a certificate from the future operator at Nikola Tesla Airport, i.e. after all the obligations were met and Vansi Erport Serbia d.o.o. and the Republic of Serbia with the airport "Nikola Tesla" a.d. Belgrade. I draw attention to the Prime Minister that its response is incorrect, there is no contract on the Ministry of Finance's website, it is not on the Commission's public-private partnership website, nor does this commission belong to the Ministry of Finance. Part of the contract data, not the contract itself, not the concession study, was published only on the public procurement portal. Unfortunately, at a session in April, we could hear the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister giving a flat-rate assessment of the impact of Er Serbia and Etihad, for example, on the work of Belgrade cafes, but we failed to get answers to the questions opened by Insider – why did Er Serbia move to Erbas planes that she had to rent from Etihad and the crew, because the trained staff for these planes did not have and could not quickly produce it? Why are the hours of work overpaid and the maintenance of these planes, as shown in the invoices that Insider has come to? Citizens have the full right to obtain an insight into documentation from which it will be seen unequivocally that the Er Serbia-Air Airport business model is indeed the best way to make public goods available and that there is no provision that unequivocally says that the concession of the airport "Nikola Tesla" has nothing to do with the takeover of a local airport in Nis by the state. I repeat the question - when and where will this contract be announced? A question for Minister Stefanovic and Minister Nelu Kuburovic. A few unpleasant news surprised us yesterday. Two news reports are related to cases of domestic violence. The first time the mother of three children and the second child died in the abdomen of a pregnant woman who was almost at birth because of the physical abuse she suffered the previous day. From the first case, we learn that there was repeated domestic violence and that the bully from earlier known to the police, that he had once served a prison sentence for domestic violence and that he was on the same ground for the next year, and for a period of one year, waiting for freedom, and in the immediate environment of the victim he had abused for years. On the other hand, we have an incredibly fast response from the police in the case of a woman, or an activist from Nis, otherwise an oncology patient, who's due to Facebook status, and according to a private lawsuit, in the early mornings of the same day, almost film closed for 30 days. How do priorities be determined when detaining persons suspected of being perpetrators of a crime and individuals who have previously been convicted of serving a prison sentence and who repeat their crimes? The issue for the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance in resignation, that is, for the Prime Minister, means of financing the city's defence system is being provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, part of the premium on crop insurance, other sources in accordance with the law. Also, the insurance company is obliged to pay registered agricultural holdings until the 10th month of the month for the previous month for the payment of public incomes for the financing of the city's defence system, 10% of the premium for the insurance of crops and fruits, which according to the law. The funds from this position are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budgets. Based on crop insurance, two billion dinars were collected. So on that basis, about 2.6 million dinars were collected to defend the city from insurance. We want to know how those funds were spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35201	Thank you, colleague. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35202	Thank you. I ask a few questions on behalf of the concerned citizens of Pančev, primarily interior ministers Nebojsa Stefanovic and Zlatibor Loncar's health. In fact, a week ago, on April 30th, early morning hours, at seven and thirty per official record, in front of the "Kefalica" kindergarten in Pančev, Vladimir Jovanovic Maradona was rescued, the last days we heard he survived, in the media presented as an MMA fighter. My question is why ministers, in particular Minister Stefanovic, avoid calling on this occasion, although we are witnessing that it is very often leaking information from him, even when it is contrary to the law. I am interested in whether this is because Vladimir Jovanovic is a member of the SNS, because he is employed by the JKP "Zelenilo" in Pančevo, whose founder is the unit of local self-government, i.e. the City of Pančevo, according to the party line. So the state hired him on the party line. Is it because he was a SNS boardman in his term of office in 2012, 2016? So he was on the SNS list and how it is possible that we do not know anything about this despite the fact that the security of the citizens of Panchev is not only compromised, but such ministers and the government show that Pančevs and Panček are citizens of the second order. Also, I wonder if Minister Stefanovic visited the town of Pančevo on this occasion, after this creepy situation, in broad daylight? Did he visit the Kefalica kindergarten? Could he have spoken to his parents, the mayor of Panchev? What did he do about it? I am also interested in the answer to the question I am referring to, I have also mentioned to Minister Loncar, but also to Minister Stefanovic, what have they done about the information that the violent and unauthorized party officials of SNS Branko Malović and Dejan Simeunović, called Simke, attended the medical rooms in the intervention room while helping Vladimir Jovanovic Maradona, and to the general reviling of doctors who could not cope with them, so they appealed to the public, to the MPs to ask how it is possible for natural persons, party officials to enter the medical rooms where any intervention is done contrary to all the rules, and only because Vladimir Jovanovic Maradona is a member of the SNS and, as we say, the Pretorian guards of the same Simket and Malović, i.e. SNS? I would like to refer a second set of questions to Minister Stefanovic, as well as to Minister of Environmental Protection Goran Trivan. At 11pm, the Pancheva City Assembly began a public hearing on one topic that was extremely disturbing for all Pančevci, with the data being obtained by valuable journalists of the Portal "013 Info" and, namely, that in the former Glasslara, which was privatised by the company "Promist", there were 36,000 tonnes of artificial fertilizer stored against the law, which the police found on the basis of criminal charges at the end of April of the month. There's been a restraining order for this company. However, it has continued to work on the grounds that it has applied for permission from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but only for 10,000 tonnes of artificial fertilizer and yet remains in the factory's circle of almost fourfold the amount of even extremely dangerous content, among other things, is the permit required for ammonium nitrate, therefore, for a potential time bomb, and given that the Glasslara, i.e. the Promist, is now in the bloc, densely populated, where about 22 thousand people live, where there are gardens and tracks and pools and halls and folk gardens in the immediate vicinity, etc., how is it possible that this company continues to operate against the law, and that for three quarters of the requirements for this authorisation, it relates to extremely dangerous ammonium nitrate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35203	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35204	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I have a few questions for several state officials, primarily ministers and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. We see that we are again participating after six and a half years of SNS authorities in another reality. After six and a half years, the government is once again the main topic of the government's reconstruction. Whenever Serbian citizens remember they have no money in their wallet, no fuel in the tank and no food in the fridge, the SNS offers them either a scandal in the Krtkovci or the replacement of some ministers that no one will be better off, as it has been proven that in the last six years every new minister is worse than the previous one. I ask the question of Prime Minister Brnabic -- who will be the new finance minister? I ask the question and I believe that Mr. Vujovic is the only man with morals and cheeks, because he resigned because he did not want to participate in the farce of fake SNS numbers. And he knows and confessed to us here when he defended the 2018 budget, that the SNS owed Serbian citizens 10 billion euros for six years of its arrogant and corrupt authorities. The country's external debt was 15.1 billion, now 25.1 billion. We see that all people who are experts, who are not party SNS listeners, who blindly do not trust the leader, starting with Mrs. Udovicski, from Lazar Krstic, have resigned from Vujovic because they know that you do bad things in the country. I am pleased that there is still someone in this system, a destroying system for citizens of Serbia named SNS, who has had to resign and say -- I do not want to participate in the new and new and new borrowing of Serbian citizens. Ten billion you owe the country to Serbia for only six years of power. Of course, chaos continues in the government, and the prime minister said Friday was the worst day of her life since she was prime minister, because, listen, she had a fight with a minister, about a topic that will not make any of Serbia's citizens any better. I ask the prime minister's question -- is it possible that the worst day was when the companies were shut down, when "Gosa" went bankrupt, when people can't pay their children a trip when wages are cut, when pensions are cut, when soldiers are reduced daily, as well as cops? Is it possible that this isn't the cause and that maybe it wasn't supposed to be one of her worst days, not a family dispute within the SNS government? I'm asking Minister Stefanovic the second question. Unfortunately, every day when we get up and look at the newspaper, we see that someone in Krusevec was killed in a criminal shooting, that a man was injured in a criminal shooting in Belgrade, that a man was killed in a criminal shooting in Panchev. Belgrade, according to data, is the second most insecure city in Europe. The only safer city than Belgrade is Kiev. The second safest city in Europe is Belgrade. I think it's scandalous data. I think Minister Stefanovic should do these things. I ask the third question to Agriculture Minister Nedimovic, who is also the fifth minister in six years' time, when will the subsidy increase for farmers? The subsidies during the DS were 12,000 dinars, now subsidies for farmers have been reduced to four thousand dinars. I'll just remind you that the euro was 80 then, and now it's 118, and then the oil was 70 dinars, and now oil is 145 dinars. Last question I ask the president of the National Assembly – when are you going to give us security cameras footage or cameras from RTS, to see who threatened colleague Aleksandri Jerkov? We're asking this question the fourth time and we haven't got an answer yet. You can't hide that thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35205	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35206	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, today would ask the parliamentary question of the health minister to Mr Loncar and the director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija Đuric. Before that, I would take the opportunity to condemn a shameful ban on playing a football charity game by the Kosovo authorities, which was to be played tomorrow by the Red Star in Gracanica, all of which would be intended for a maternity home in Gracanica. It is known that after the 1999 bombing and the arrival of international forces in Kosovo and Metohija, the Pristina Clinical and Hospital Centre will be moved to Gracanica, where it remains and works until today. It is situated in Gracanica and Laplem Selo in montage facilities donated by NGOs from Greece and France. On the surface of about 2,500 square metres, the surgical, gynaecological and obstetric, interstitious, paediatric, infectious and neurological clinics, as well as blood transfusion services, laboratories, microbiology cabinets, X-rays, hospital pharmacy, technical services facilities, while the administration and administration buildings are located in a private house for which rent is paid. Out of the total number of employees, 86 are doctors specialists, including 99 university professors. The Pristina-based Clinical and Hospital Centre in Gracanica is an institution that carries secondary health care for about 60,000 Serbian national residents living south of the Ibar River and living in Gracanica, Novi Brdo, Kosovo Kamenica, Vitina, Lipljana, Kosovo Polj, Obilić, Gjilan, Strpac, Gorazdevac, Orahovac, East, Klini etc. Although it has been working backwards for years in difficult conditions, lack of space for work, existing objects are in poor condition, inadequately built from mounting elements. The centre faces daily labour problems, disorderly supply of drugs and sanitary materials, a lack of financial resources to pay for municipal services. The Pristina- Gracanica Clinical Hospital Centre managed to preserve the professional frame. In fact, in this institution, the important doctors, the professors of medical school living in these areas, who are professionally and ready to perform the most complex operations, the treatment of severe diseases, have so far proven working in extremely difficult and inadequate conditions. In addition to these extremely professional doctors, an urgent need for the reception of a number of young doctors, medical technicians, is also the conclusion from the session of the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which discussed health problems in Kosovo and Metohija. In this institution more than 50,000 reviews are carried out at monthly level and provide more than 30,000 services to patients. A certain number is kept at stationary treatment. The capacity of the sick beds is very low, 61 beds. Patients with a heavy clinical image are provided with the necessary assistance and are then transported to major clinical centres in central Serbia's territory for further treatment. I would take this opportunity to thank all the doctors, medical and non-medical staff in Kosovo and Metohija for their exceptional expertise, sacrifice because they preserved the health system in Kosovo and Metohija under the health care system of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for our great contribution to our survival in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The information he is looking forward to is that, annually, about 270 children are born on average at the Gynaecological clinic of KBC Pristina based in Gracanica. In view of the above, it is necessary to build a new hospital building where all clinics, cabinets, administrations and services that would function in the proper conditions of a decent age. Gracanica municipality and investor in the government of the Republic of Serbia provide guarantees for the construction of a hospital through a legal basis for providing secondary health care and a legal basis for the supply of land for the construction of a hospital. Also, the Gracanica municipality has prepared projects to build a 4,5,000-metre-square-square hospital, as estimated to be enough for KBC Pristina based in Gracanica. I would like to point out that this project was innocuously supported by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic during his visit to Laplem Selo, who is staying at the Stevic family's feast in Gracanica. My question – when will the Ministry of Health and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija join the implementation of this project in order to achieve the full and adequate health care of residents living south of Ibra? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35207	Thanks, buddy. There is a word from the People's Messenger George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35208	Thank you, Chairman. I have a question for the Serbian Government, that is, the Ministry of Agriculture – will it and when it will be returned to force, the old Animal Encouraging Regulation, and in line with the decisions and recommendations of the Committee on Agriculture of the Republic of Serbia, since these new regulations have unexpectedly increased the limit of the number of sheep and cows when it comes to the right to exercise incentives? This for another reason, because this government has done much in the previous period to increase the livestock stock and I am not sure how much this new Regulation is going to contribute to one certainty, the reliability of our cattlemen, especially small cattle that should live on a smaller number of sheep and cows, while also improving exports and creating a greater possibility for the export of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the fact is that unlike earlier governments by 2012, when the largest amount was 188m euros in agricultural investment, but I will remind you that there was no investment in livestock production, only last year did the government invest 309m euros and I think it must continue. Why? Because at this point, we have an agreement with Turkey on privileged exports of juniper meat of 5,000 tonnes. It is certain that an agreement will be signed at 10,000 tons, while we are able to export only about 300 tonnes. In addition, we had and we have the right to export June meat to the EU of 8,000 tonnes, and this all points to me that the potential of breeding throats in the Republic of Serbia is not satisfactory and is far from the opportunities provided and achieved by good policy and good co-operation with the environment and with countries, i.e. with the EU that I have listed. Will the Ministry of Agriculture really want to know as soon as possible? The opinion is that the restructuring of the invested funds, where world results and global investment are completely the opposite of the way we do it at the moment, where 70% of the funds are invested in livestock, 30% in plant production. We currently have 70% subsidies and investments in plant production, and only 30% in livestock production. Simple mathematics shows that if investment in livestock were to increase and that this relationship was approaching these world standards, instead of the current four billion euros in annual exports, we could at least export around 9.5 billion of meat to the outside markets and other agricultural products. There are many other measures that could serve as easy exports and security of potential, which is the import of cows by the cow system – calf. So, cows that don't milk themselves, they just give a good tosser. If the possibility of the state, instead of exporting at low prices, of agricultural products, means corn, investing in agricultural production, would allow cattle farmers to be credited in animal feeding, it would be returned as something that would allow Serbian citizens to stay in the country, to increase interest in it, and thus by favouring young people, who would create conditions for credit lines and easier to raise livestock facilities, there would be a guaranteed certainty, and thus stability in the supply of markets in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35209	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35210	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once when I asked a parliamentary question, I began my speech with the words of St. Nicholas Velimirovic - do not steal the state, because it has been paid dearly. This was during the discovery of a large number of affairs in the township of Vracar, while the yellows exercised power in the municipality, and today I will allow myself to ask myself once again in this term a parliamentary question, i.e. with these big words of the Serbian bishop. My question is addressed to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as this ministry does the tasks of state administration relating to the system of local self-government and territorial autonomy and guidance and support to local self-government units in ensuring the legality and efficiency of work. Are they in the ministry familiar with the huge number of affairs that rock the Paracino municipality? If they're familiar, what are they planning to do about it? So it is as many as seven affairs discovered in relatively short time as the media wrote about, and it is tens of millions of dinars of embezzlement and abuse. Paracina is the government of one clan gathered around the prominent DS-Saša Paunovic official. He has been in power in the municipality for 18 years, and the only thing he's known for is the very large number of affairs in which he and his associates are guilty. So it's a model that they've perfected in that municipality, which is that almost every municipality official has one or more private enterprises, private companies that they usually get, almost without exception, all the entry jobs in that municipality. I think they could apply for the Ginis Book of Records by the number of municipal officials who are also company owners, so they would win the contest. The latest example, according to the media, is Secretary SO Paracin, whose husband has a private firm that deals with providing human resources for the needs of clients. So far, the contracts that the company has charged from the municipal register, so in 2017 and 2018, they amount to 18,734,000 dinars, so almost 19 million dinars, or about 160,000 euros. So you can assume that in the public procurement process that firm was the only bidder, it doesn't surprise us anymore, it's now a rule for them. So, public procurement, one single firm is the bidder, the firm gets elected and it's a company whose husband or wife is a municipal official. Here again is a classical form of conflict of interest, I would say a school example of conflict of interest, as before. If we know that the law says that a functioner must not be in any relationship of dependence on persons who could affect his impartiality in performing a public function, nor use a public function to obtain any benefit or convenience for himself or a connected person. It's a connected face here, so. Then, we have that expert who is there, the CEO of the JKP Vodavod, who did not report to his wife's firm, forgot to report to the Anti-Corruption Agency, although he has criminal charges earlier due to financial malfeasances. So there's another conflict of interest. So the conclusion is, wherever the Democratic Party exercises power, we always have abuse of position, abuse of budget, conflict of interest, theft of one word. It was Gilas in Belgrade, it was Jesic in Indjija, it was Kuzmanovic at Vračar, it was Kena in Smederjevska Palanca, it was Paunovic in Paracino, the result is the same – a devastated budget, budget abuse, and pockets full. Finally, an official response from the Anti-Corruption Agency to my past question came to us, confirming that there was a conflict of interest when it came to Shaletic, a certain deputy president of the municipality. Just to end up asking the Anti-Corruption Agency -- when will the established procedure for breach of the Law on the Agency against the deputy president of the Municipality of Paracino? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35211	Thank you, colleague Markovic. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesovic. We continue the search in detail on the Third Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Military Education. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by MPplatimir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić submitted together to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Dubravko Bojic and Ružica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Bozidar Delic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Verica Radeta: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Radeta’s colleague according to the Rules of Procedure. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35212	Mr. Chairman, here's what I wanted to say, and I wanted to talk about this amendment, but I can't do it for the sake of the nakaradic Rules of Procedure, we don't have time anymore. As vice president of the National Assembly, I warn you and assist you in your work under Article 32. The Rules of Procedure - you are required for the public to say that it is not true what you are reading – whether anyone wants a word, no, thank you. We Serbian radicals, we want a word by each amendment, you are obliged to say that because of such a bad Rules of Procedure, MPs cannot actually explain the amendments they have submitted. What you're doing is cheating on the public. People now think what they've submitted to the amendments, and they won't talk about the amendments. So, you have to ask if the applicant of the amendment wants to speak, so if you say so – you don't have time anymore, and then you ask if anyone else wants to talk, because what you're presenting to the public right now is exactly what the press has been saying for several weeks now that the MPs here are playing, how they're just putting up with the amendments, and now that you're representing it, then the people who are watching us or who are reading us in the paper tomorrow are going to say that we're really wasting time here. No, we here, now speaking on behalf of the MPs of the SRS, we're doing this seriously, we're discussing every bill, we're making serious and reasoned remarks, we're making amendments to fix the text of the law, and we want to make every amendment to explain it. Please take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35213	Thank you, colleague Radeta, I take care and, of course, take care of the respect of Rule 158 of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, you have now had the opportunity to say what you have said and it is absolutely not controversial, it is your position and I do not think I have hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on injury? - Yes, I do. ) Thank you for the suggestions, but we must work in accordance with this Rules of Procedure which is valid and which is in force. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Seselj and Nikola Savic together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Marjana Marash submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Despotovic, Nemanja Sarovic and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Petar Jojic and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Seselj and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Ružica Nikolic and Bozidar Delic together submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radet together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov together submitted the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Karanac, Dr Ivan Bauer, Branimir Jovanovic and Dr Predrag Jelenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Karanac, Dr Ivan Bauer, Branimir Jovanovic and Dr Predrag Jelenkovic. The word is Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35214	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the Army of Serbia, colleagues and colleagues, my colleagues and I have submitted this amendment in order to align the deadlines relating to the election contest for the calling of teachers and associates. Namely, Article 39. The law on military education provides for me to quote – the choice in calling co-workers and teachers of foreign language and skills is performed by a higher education unit in the form of the University. The election contest for calling the person referred to in Article 1 shall be opened three months before the time for which they are elected. I propose that this deadline for the opening of the competition be not three months, but six months, and in this way we would comply with the deadline foreseen for the selection of teachers from Article 37 of this Law. I believe that this law on military education is very important for the further successful profiling of our armies and that the results of the good decisions we hope to make will only be seen in the future, or in the years to come. For example, I will point out that the decision taken three years ago, to reintroduce secondary vocational education of Serbia's military, that it has now proved to be a good decision and that each army is based on effective work and that every strong army has a good and quality sub-office chamber and that investment in education is being repeated much later, because all these people spend their working lives in Serbia's military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35215	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MPs Bozidar Delic and Nikola Savic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov submitted the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Petar Jojic and Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Meho Omerovic, Dr Muamer Bačevac and Natasa Mihailović Vacic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35216	Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Rade together submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nikola Savic and Milorad Mircic submitted together to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 72nd Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 79th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 81st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Defence. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs Marko Djurisic, Jovan Jovanovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta, together with Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, submitted the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Marko Đurisic, together Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta, together Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić and together Zoran Zivković, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Đurišić, together Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta, together Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić and together Zoran Zivković, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group jointly submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Kostic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together by Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta and jointly by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta and jointly Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Marko Djurisic, together Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta, together Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić, together with Zoran Zivković, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Marko Djurisic and Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group, and jointly Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Marko Djurisic, together with Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Jovan Jovanovic, together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja and Sonja Pavlovic and together Vladimir Đurić, Nenad Christmas, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanović Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Guric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35217	Thank you. Here, let's do a little bit of discussing this day too, a little bit and chairing to rest in this reading of all these amendments. We all MPs, of course, want to defend our amendments, but because of the Rules of Procedure and the fact that the ruling majority of the first three or four members of the First Law on the agenda has spent their amendment time, we are essentially disabled, so we are going to use the remaining time of the parliamentary group. So, as far as the amendments we've proposed are concerned, in fact, Article 62. Defense law. The bill provides for the member to be complemented by the position which provides for the obligation, so he says, for other non-defense companies, for other legal entities and entrepreneurs, that the Ministry of Defence is supplied on request with data of importance to the defence. Unfortunately, neither the bill nor the law itself in other provisions clearly define what data is considered to be relevant for the defence. As a consequence, this provision may be taken too broadly and may give the Ministry of Defence the authority to collect, without a clear need, information that may represent both business secrets or personal data. Why did we propose to delete? Because we think it is necessary to define precisely in the law which these data are relevant for the defence and under what conditions the Ministry of Defence may require them from companies, legal entities and entrepreneurs, especially those which are not relevant to the defence system, so on all practical grounds. The proposed position of Article 3 of the 62rd should also be complemented by a provision on the protection of data obtained from those third parties, hence by companies, legal entities and entrepreneurs and by a provision which will prevent the Ministry from accessing or giving up such data. Since all of this is not regulated in the draft law, it is merely stated that the Ministry, as well as from the economy and entrepreneurs, who have nothing to do with the defence system, may seek information that is significant for the good, without provisions on how the Ministry of Information will have such data, we felt that this provision should be returned to the promoter for further work and therefore we suggested that we delete that attitude in order to obtain a more concrete proposal. So, that's an explanation. Unfortunately, the Secretary of Defense didn't come today. I thank the Minister of Youth and Sports who has come, so I suppose we'll be denied the debate under this bill, which we don't think is very irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35218	I thank my colleague. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 21st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Vladimir Đurić, Nenad Bozic, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanović and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, submitted their submissions. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Guric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35219	Thank you. This is also one of, in our opinion, the essential provisions which are somewhat controversial in the proposed text of the Defence Act. It is predicted, therefore, that now I quote: “The association that is heavily based on its activities in the areas of importance for defence can gain the status of the association from particular importance for defence. “ The bill does not clearly indicate what a term means, and that term is crucial to obtain the status of an association of special importance for defence, nor is it clear what this status of special importance for defence means when it comes to co-financing and when it comes to the participation of such associations in projects financed or co-financed by the Ministry of Defence. So, this is the legal formula when you say that someone is heavily based on something, so they gain the status of special importance. What does this status mean when it comes to the distribution of budget money? And what's the big deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35220	I thank my colleague. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the People's Parliaments Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic together submitted the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Vesna Ivkovic and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 21st amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 23rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Jovan Jovanovic and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja and Sonja Pavlovic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Nenad Bozic, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Guric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35221	Thank you. And here we have submitted one amendment concerning the confidentiality of the data. So, the whole area in the proposed amendments and additions to the law, and not only when it comes to the Law on Defence, but also later on, the BIA Act, is quite unregulated and threatens to create some kind of confusion. Therefore, the amendments to the Law have practically defined the provisions on classified information relating to the defence system. The amendment considers that this proposal should be recast because we believe that this additional precision is unnecessary, since the Data Securitisation Act already governs what information can be identified as secret and determines the procedure for determining the secrecy of such information. In this respect, the precision of Article 102, as proposed by the Government, can lead to the fact that, in the application of the law of a particular type of data, apriors are considered classified, which we consider unacceptable, as the process of determining secrecy relates to specific information whose detection of an unauthorized person would result in damage to the interests of the Republic. A resolution in the position of the 2nd amended member, under which classified information relating to the defence system is protected in accordance with the law governing the protection of the confidentiality of data, is even written – cannot be made available to the public. This can be interpreted as a practical indication of the secrecy of such data, in no case can recall or secrecy be stopped, even after the expiry of the legal period. I think it's the opposite of Article 16. In fact, we have proposed that this area is simply regulated by calling on the Privacy Policy so as not to have a violated unity of the legal system when it comes to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35222	Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law of Serbia You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, and you have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together with Aleksandar Seselj and Vjerica Radet, together with Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Ivan Kostic has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposed after Article 1 was proposed by Members 1 and jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together by Nemanja Sarović and Ružica Nikolic and jointly by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Ivan Kostic has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vladimir Djuric, Nenad Bozic, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here's my colleague, Đurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35223	In essence, we only asked that, since certain research institutions in the defence system operate within the General Staff, as if the Serbian Army is also the ultimate beneficiary of research and development, and has an interest in telling its needs to the Ministry, we asked for the amendment to prescribe that the General Staff also participates in the development of a R & D plan. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35224	National MP Jovan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Filip Stojanović and Milorad Mirčić and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Ivan Kostic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together with Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic, submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Ivan Kostic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miljan Damjanovic and Tomislav LJubenović and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Sreto Peric and Aleksandra Belačić and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Božidar Delic and Vesna Nikolic Vukalović and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Marina Ristic and Momcilo Mandic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure) According to the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Radoslav Milojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35225	I'm advertising Article 108, Mr. Arsic. We've seen that you can read these cards quickly, but we haven't even been able to answer the amendment. I know you want to finish this session as soon as possible, but please at least when it comes to the DS amendment leave time so we can press the key and answer the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35226	Comrade Milojic, I understand that your MP group has wasted time, there is another minute and a half, and to help you intervene for pressing the taster, please contact your colleague Vladimir Đurić, since every time he asks for a word, he gets it. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Nikola Savic and Petar Jojic, together Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic, together with the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandar Cabraj together submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Bozidar Delic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Nenad Bozic, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jovan Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) My fellow Milojitsu, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35227	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, we have group time, even though you said we didn't, we have a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35228	I'm right, but you're the only one who spends your minutes and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35229	How much time do we have?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35230	You have one minute and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35231	Thank you. The Democratic Party also proposed that individual laws be withdrawn in principle. We said that certain laws, above all the Law on the participation of our army in multinational operations, are good, because the defence of the country is just being realized by the participation of our army in multinational operations, but what is bad is that you and through these laws and through the proposal of over 300 amendments to the first and second members of the law have made it impossible for us to discuss, propose amendments and discuss them, above all, the Security and Information Agency Act. We think that this law is extremely bad, that it gives enormous power, without any control, to the Director of the Agency, without entering what is called the Director of the Agency, and especially if we know that it is a man who is now without any qualifications at the place of BIA Director. The BIA director will be able to employ without competition, determine the salary coefficient and the total salary without any consultation and without any commission, even above the court's decision. I am asking Minister Kuburovic, and I am glad that she is here, to tell me whether it is normal to be in Article 20v. says the Director of the Agency has the right to fire a member of the BIA, to be returned to work by the court, to have the discretionary director of the Agency to disobey the court's decision? This violates the Constitution and the laws of this country, and please, if you can answer me what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35232	Just to let you know my colleague Radojićičić, your minutes and 30 seconds have been spent and you've spent about 10 and a half seconds more time. A colleague of Orlic's after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35233	Just for a little while, I'd like to call for him not to adopt himself, since the promoter obviously doesn't even know what law it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35234	Thank you. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Alexander Seselj and Milorad Mircic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Nemanja Sarović and Dubravko Bojic and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Natasa Jovanovic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Sreto Peric and Aleksandra Belačić and jointly Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miljan Damjanović and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party's MPs submitted together to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Nikola Savic and Petar Jojic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Ruzica Nikolic and Nikola Savic, together Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Bozidar Delic and Petar Jojic and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party's MPs submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, both Bozidar Delic and Filip Stojanovic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35235	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35236	By adopting amendments by the proposing representatives, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Filip Stojanović and Sreto Perić and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party's MPs submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Bozidar Delic and Vesna Nikolic Vukalovic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Nikola Savic and Petar Jojic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Jovan Jovanovic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic together submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Đorđe Vukadinović, together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic and jointly Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party's MPs jointly submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja and Sonja Pavlovic and jointly Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 43rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 47th amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Đurišić and the MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Comić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the production and transport of arms and military equipment. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill, as well as amendments submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. By the name of the amendment law, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić, submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment is Parliamentarian Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, the MEP Marija Janjušević is the MEP. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, the National MP Bosko Obradović is a member of the National Assembly. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment is the People's MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Bozidar Delic and Nemanja Sarovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS on foreign investment and privatisation in the dedicated industry is absolutely negative. The question arises – What kind of privatisation in the companies of the dedicated industry, which are doing great and which in two or three years' time have they sold their production in advance? These are gentlemen, you know, the pressures on the way to Europe are being made from Brussels for our public enterprises, and in this case, the enterprises of the dedicated industry to privatise or to enter foreign capital. As you get closer to the EU, so our dedicated industry will stagnate, and God forbid that one day we join the EU, our dedicated industry will fail, as it did during the Boris Tadic regime, almost happened. You're talking about technology here, gentlemen. Well, I know VTI no longer has the opportunity he had before. However, there are our universities, there are our institutes, there are companies of the dedicated industry that have their own development and their own technologies. Here, the Faculty of Machines, which is here near us, did for the German engine-orderer, for the Russian helicopter-bender, and you remember that technology for Elysian remonts for M-8 helicopters was also created at that university. And as for foreign investments, I would only remind you of two things, Tadiran and Tales, related to the means of ties and affairs of huge proportions involving Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac, normally two generals and three colonels were in the investigative prison for two months, but since the main business was Sutanovac and Tadic, it was not a judicial epilogue. And let me just tell you that as far as I know, you're talking to Tales again, and we'll Serbian do it and we'll track it because there's a firm in Serbia that produces assets absolutely at Tales level, if not even better. A colleague, Jokic, mentioned the privatisation of the "Accumulator Krusik" the other day. Remember the shame of the gentlemen when the parade was organized here on October 20th and when our defence minister asked the president of Russia for two batteries for the MiG 29s, and in Krusevec we had a battery factory. The public is not aware that the General Staff gentlemen went to the workers who kept that factory from being robbed by the owner, asked them, and the workers made 20 batteries that our Army still uses today. This factory has been returned now, i.e. "Second" has bought its machines and about 80 workers are working, but precisely because of this privatisation, there has been a technological gap of 10 years. One of the most modern factories today is the helmet. That, gentlemen, is all the reasons why we're against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35238	You're bringing the end of your colleague Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35239	Here's one more thing to say. Our weapons equipment of the Serbian Army is 90% to 95% of Soviet and Russian origin, and gentlemen, you know that Russian capital cannot enter Serbia and this is again linked to our path to the EU. So we're absolutely against any privatisation being in the dedicated industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35240	I thank my colleague Delic. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bozidar Delic and Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Members 4 and Article 4 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marija Janjušević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić and joint MPs of the DS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić and joint MPs of the DS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to which the name of members 9a-9v and members 9a-9v were added after Article 9 together was submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Bozidar Delic and Zoran Despotovic together submitted to the title above the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinović together submitted their name above members and Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stankovic, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić and joint MPs Miljan Damjanović and Ružica Nikolic submitted the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35241	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35242	Thank you. By adopting amendments by the proposing representatives, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić, joint MPs Bozidar Delic and Momcilo Mandić and joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Đorđe Vukadinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić, joint MPs Bozidar Delic and Aleksandar Seselj and joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Đorđe Vukadinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic, joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić, joint MPs Bozidar Delic and Filip Stojanović and joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Đorđe Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić, submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th and Article 18 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 21st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS group and Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic together submitted to the 22nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS group and Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic together submitted to the 23rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS group and Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 25th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted to the 26th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 27th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party group jointly submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 28th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS group and Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic together submitted to the 29th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 30th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 31st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 32nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 33rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 34th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 35th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 36th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS parliamentary group, MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic and the MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to the 37th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 38th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter V, the names of members 39-42 and of Articles 39-42, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 39th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic, Milija Miletic and Bojan Torbica submitted together to the 39th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. My colleague Komlenski has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35243	Thank you. By adopting this amendment, the law has been given to precision. What we are pleased and important is that our amendment has blended with the attitude and the union, which has asked for this article to be more precise in 39, and that it is clearly defined that the share of state and social capital cannot be less than 51% in these companies. What is important is that this capitalisation is envisaged in one extremely fair and appropriate way, not as privatisation until 2012, as the term privatisation someone wants to use, because even if the state wants to get a share of the state capital, it must by its investment, which is adequate, clear and accurate on market values, gain up to 51% of the stake in all of this. Opening up recapitalisation space isn't something that's important for today, for a year, for two and three years, it's important for the future. Our military industry is good, good for this moment, but future times and needed new markets are something that the capitalization must achieve and achieve. Since there's very little time, I won't be reporting on the amendments to the article. In 70 and 76, which the government has also accepted, but all of this clearly shows and says that the amendments written by part of the ruling coalition absolutely have a purpose and it is important that as a consequence of our work the laws of this home come out as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35244	Thank you. Both MPs Bozidar Delic and Ruzica Nikolic submitted the title above the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic put together the title above the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment were submitted by MPs of the SDS group, and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic and joint MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 41st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic have submitted to the 42nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the Head and the title above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment, MPs Bozidar Delic and Miljan Damjanovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 43rd amendment, MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS group and Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic together submitted to the 43rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party together submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bozidar Delic and Aleksandar Seselj put together the title above Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group and the joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivkadinovic and Djorđe Vukadinovic submitted to the title of members of the 44th and member of the 44th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, together MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić and together MPs Miljan Damjanović and Zoran Despotovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Bozidar Delic and Nemanja Sarovic submitted together to the title above Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic together submitted their name above members and Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 45th and the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić and together MPs Miljan Damjanović and Petar Jojic submitted to the 45th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 48th and 48th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and together MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and together MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Bozidar Delic and Momcilo Mandic submitted together to the title above the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 50th and the 50th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić and together MPs Miljan Damjanović and Petar Jojic submitted to the 50th Amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Members 51 and Article 51 of the amendment, the MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and together MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and together MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and together the MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and together MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and together MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic, Milija Miletic and Bojan Torbica submitted together to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 70 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the two MPs of the Dveri group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the two MPs of the Dveri group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic together submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic, Milija Miletic and Bojan Torbica. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the two MPs of the Dveri group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 83 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and together two MPs of the Dveri Parliament group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Use of Military Serbia and other powers of defence in multilateral operations outside the border of the Republic of Serbia You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together by Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta and jointly by Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Zoran Zivković, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovici together Vladimir Đurić, Nenad Bozic, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group, together Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Verica Radeta, MPs of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament and MPs of the Free Members together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Verica Radeta, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, together with the Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta, together Vladimir Đurić, Nenad Bozic, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanović, submitted the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of Parliament Marko Đurišić, together Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta and together Zoran Zivković, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, together with the Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, together with the Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Nenad Christmas, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Verica Radeta, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the Free Members. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, joint MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, together with the Members of the Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Rade, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radet together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together with the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Verica Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Rade, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, the MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Rade, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War, Labour and Material Obligation You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and the MPs of the DS group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, the MP Marko Djurisic and the MPs of the DS group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and the MPs of the DS group together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Four MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and the MPs of the DS group together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic, Milija Miletic and Bojan Torbica. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've specified that training involves only women who volunteered for military service, who attended the Military Academy and who attended schools for reserve officers. So we figured out exactly which women go to training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-08-0.u35246	I thank my colleague Rističević. Four MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment, in the same text, the MP Marko Djurisic and the MPs of the DS group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 37th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 38th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 41st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 42nd Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 43rd Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 44th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 45th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on the Security Information Agency. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on the Control of Service and Security and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejects as an incomplete amendment, which was proposed to add after Article 1 a new member of the 2nd, who together submitted MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djorđa Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic and an amendment that was proposed to add a new member of the 4th, which was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The MPs of the SDS group and the two MPs of the Dveri group together submitted the amendment to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 1 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Nenad Christmas, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs Vladimir Djuric, Nenad Bozic, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group and the joint MPs Vladimir Djuric, Nenad Bozic, Tatjana Macura and Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliament Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Nikola Savic and Ruzica Nikolic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment were submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Momcilo Mandic and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment were submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday 9 May 2018, starting at 10.00 a.m., as the Day for Voting on Points 3 to 9 of the agenda of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is what we do today's work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 94 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum in the voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on military education to the vote, in principle. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there are four MPs who have not voted for – 127 against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Under the name of the law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damljanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was addressed by four MPs of the Free Members Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment, the same text was submitted by MP Sreto Peric and joint MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Paunović. I am concluding the vote: no one, with abstentions, will vote for – 12. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milisav Petronijevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Dinic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Danica Bukvic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to be voted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Josip Broz. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two against – one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1, which was submitted by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – five, against – one, with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1, which was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1, which was submitted by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1, which was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1, which was submitted by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1, which was submitted by the MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1, which was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Ljubiška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 24, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments, which are added after Article 1 by the new member of the 2nd, which were submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vjerica Radet and MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Mr Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were tabled by the four MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the club's own assembly. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the People's MP, Vladan Zagradian. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 2 which were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one, abstentioned, one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Djordje Milicevic. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstentions for – 13, against – 13. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, is one for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, against one, abstention one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one with abstentions – 11. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one, abstentioned, one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, the abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, the abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 16, against – one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 15 against – one abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – four against – one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 16, against – one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 11 against – one that is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – six against – one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, is one for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—seven against—one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two against – one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstentions for – 13, against – 13. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – three, against – one, with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vjerica Radet and MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against, no one with abstentions, is one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Milorad Mircic and MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one with abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milisav Petronijevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for –15, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would now ask fellow MPs to welcome guests, members, colleagues of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a round of applause. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: for seven, against one, with abstention, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against one, with two abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: for seven, against one, with abstention, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no vote – 16 against – one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no vote – 23 against – one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 16, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 24, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 12, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 13 against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 13 against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 15, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovana Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no vote – 14 against – one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 12, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – ten against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – ten against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned, seven against it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned, seven against it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 13 against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention to vote – three against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – ten against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – ten against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: for the vote – eight, against – there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention to vote – three against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 20, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – 14, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 which have been tabled by the Members of the People's Parliament. Dr. Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – 14, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 which have been tabled by the Members of the People's Parliament. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 12, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 16, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention to vote – two against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – ten against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions to vote – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 16, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 20, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 16, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 17, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned, seven against it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vjerica Radet and MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, with the correction, submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 4 submitted by the four MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against two, with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tanja Tomaševic Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: for – 14, v – no one, abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was tabled by LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by the MP prime. Dr. Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by the MP prime. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by the MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4, which was tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by the MP prime. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic.
