ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32219	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32220	I thank the chairman. I refer my questions to the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic, Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, Ministers Nelli Kuburović, Zorani Mihajlović and Branko Ruzic each of them in their jurisdiction, and this is obviously the only way to reach them, and thanks to the persistent initiative of the Vojvodjan research centre – VOIS who have addressed this problem and brought us more initial information to the truth. On January 18th, 2018, a joint action by Gandarmeria and members of the Sombor PU was carried out at the former facility of the Gakowska Borderar, when a laboratory of marijuana was discovered, worth over 50 million dinars, or almost half a million euros. At that time, the Sombor did not issue any notice of this event and that of the insistence of the MUP officials, on the grounds that they would report to it. It hasn't happened in six days, and that's my first question, Minister, in the first row, which is why six days has been waiting to be issued any information or sentences regarding the discovery of this laboratory on this once significant agricultural good border guard in Gakov? After six days, without any precision and more detailed information, it was reported that the property of a former agricultural giant, who magically passed before the 2016 bankruptcy, had been owned by Vladimir Vrbashko, otherwise known as the alleged controversial businessman close to the Serbian Progressive Party, although these details were then hidden. What comes to mind next to the question why the MUP, Gandarmeria and the police, why they kept silent for six whole days, what is in the eyes that suddenly disappears at the end of 2017 from the Central Katastre on the change of ownership structure over the Gakowic Border, but in the cadastrian records, people who are most directly connected to the SNS appear as new owners. I quote – instead of Vladimir Vrbaško in the catastrian record, Ivan Bojović appears as the new owner of the Gakovic Border parcel, quote – a partner of SNS MPs in the National Assembly of Marija Obradovic, who is also SNS Vice-President, then, Dragan Potpara, a SNS MP in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodin, then Stefan Videkanić, cousin of the President of the Municipality of Kula Perice Vidkanic, also from SNS, whose affairs were notified to the public, as well as companies owned by lawyer Tomislav Višnic, who was otherwise celebrated as defender of war crimes in front of The Hague. So, by checking in the cadastar records, these faces are recorded as the new owners of the Gakowian Border parcel. However, what represents the subject of my second question is why Katastar hides in which way they have become owners, whether by buying, whether by asking and insisting questions of VOIS researchers, for the sake of the public, Katastar has been hiding this data for weeks, for months. We are looking for them this way, especially from the competent ministers, who have the authority to bring this information to the light of day. Also, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior how it is possible that the More Public Prosecutor's Office has announced that the only person identified and detained and suspected, a certain Milos Raicevic of Gakov, is in connection with this discovered marijuana laboratory, and that no one in Gakov knows this person, even more than that, that they claim to be a person who is actually from Zemun, who, for the sake of general good within the SNS, has taken responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32221	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32222	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to, using my parliamentary right today to request a notice from the minister in charge of population policy and demographics, regarding the proposal and implementation of new promotional measures of population policy, the Strategy of Population Policy. For years, the demographic situation has warned us that the problems of population policy should primarily be seen as a national rather than a political issue and that there should be broad social consensus for the announced population policy, taking into account the fact that the proposed measures are an expression of the ultimate effort of the Government of Serbia, that and in an unfavourable economic situation, there is maximum support for families with children. We know that one of the government's strategic definitions is the fight against the white plague. The government, as well as the previous two, takes seriously the problem of Serbia's depopulation and the fact that if we do not take urgent measures, in 50 years the Serb population can be halved. In this direction, different measures were taken by the government, as the population policy, takes a strategic place in the government's activities. Although at the end of last year we adopted a set of population measures during the amendment and addition of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the Government, and in particular the House for Population Policy, Professor Dr Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, whose work is mainly part of the population policy, proposes new, even more stimulating measures that should encourage birth. The measures were also adopted by the Council for Popular Policy of the Government, and supported by the president of the Republic of Serbia and the National Council for Population Policy. New measures mean even more support in the country, for the first child 100,000 dinars in terms of one aid, for the second child 10,000 dinars per month for two years from the birth of a child and for the third child of 12,000 dinars over 10 years, and for the fourth child 18,000 also for 10 years from the birth of a child. I believe that we all agree that these population measures are extremely stimulating and infinitely important for the survival of both states and nations, but that, with active measures in the field of youth employment policy, we can thus achieve a full effect. In addition to these measures, according to the Strategy on Inciting Birth, the Government also announces a number of other measures. In this regard, I would like to request a notice from Minister Djukic Dejanovic, who is changing the normative cabinet for population policy and government, as a whole, to propose that these large scale measures be applied, given that there are more legal rules to be amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32223	Before we continue to work, I ask one more time if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since tensions have not yet calmed down following the bestial arrest of self-called special units of the self-called Kosovo High Representatives of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to ask a few questions in this regard to the country's president, Mr. Vukic, the prime minister of the state, Mrs. Brnabic and Minister of Interior, Mr. Stefanovic. I wonder if it is true that the Cypriot special forces have entered the territory of northern Kosovo only twice in the past 19 years, the first time a special train was scheduled to leave for Kosovo and the second time recently, when Mr Djuric crossed the alternative crossings into our province? Is it true that the talks of representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia with citizens of northern Kosovo was scheduled for 12.44 hours? If that's true, the moment the conversation was scheduled, according to the information we have, there were over 1,500 people present. Why did people split up if they knew that Mr Djuric and Selakovic would come when in so many people the security position of them was more secure personally, i.e. why did Mr Djuric and Selakovic not come at the scheduled time but later? I ask the question how is it possible that together, fortunately, Mr. Djuric was not detained and violently deprived of freedom from the self-proclaimed authorities of the self-called state and Mr. Selakovic? Does this mean that he enjoyed a special immunity before the Shiptar authorities? Is it true that representatives of the international occupation administration knew about this scenario? If that is true, what can we do in the course of negotiations with our Western friends to expect them to deal with the situation of our province? I ask the question is, before Mr. Đurić and Mr. Selakovic enter, whether any security checks have been carried out for their safety or, unless it is done, who is responsible for this, and if it is done, who is responsible for the misjudgement? Is it true and is it possible that high-ranking officials of the Serbian state are sent to such a risky for them personally and embarrassing for the state of Serbia, the mission, without having previously done such a check? Since it has been announced that Mr. Djuric will be arrested if he appears on KIM, in an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who is responsible if he appears or is his personal wish? If it is a personal wish, does he bear a certain type of responsibility? At the end of the question for Mr. Foreign Minister Dacic – why is not the emergency session of the UN Security Council requested through our trusted friends from the Russian Federation, who would surely support this initiative and thus come into a position that with a possible veto by these so-called. Western friends finally fall masks, to know who really makes the state of Serbia feel like a friend, and who's our fake friend or, shall I say, the enemy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32225	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32226	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, vice-presidents of the Assembly, I have a number of questions first addressed to Minister of Health, Mr Loncar and Minister of Education, Mr Sarčević. I'm sorry we didn't get a chance to talk about this yesterday because of our colleagues' pointless amendments. But here's the thing. As, unfortunately, many are probably known, yesterday we received another victim of the disease that we thought had long been eradicated in our country. My question concerns two laws adopted in this congregation in this assembly. The first law is the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, which predicts that children who are not vaccinated cannot be enrolled in primary school. It's a law that the DS MPs also supported, considering it's a measure that will help us deal with this big problem that we think is due to the lack of care of the state. However, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was adopted earlier, seems to me to be a month or slightly more than a month, does not foresee the possibility that a child who has not been vaccinated cannot be enrolled in primary school. On the contrary, this law explicitly states that the primary school is mandatory for all children, therefore also for unvaccinated children, which makes the two laws in complete contrast with each other. In addition, there is no certificate of child vaccination among the necessary documentation that parents need to provide when enrolling a child. Does the school herself have the right to ask parents to deliver such documents? Of course not. My question to these two ministers is – how do they think this problem can be solved? Parents know kids get into school this week and next. How are we going to solve the problem that has arisen because the same government and the same congregation majority have passed two laws that are completely opposite? One law prohibits children who are not vaccinated into primary school, and another law makes children who are not vaccinated into primary school. I can see that's not what my colleagues are interested in. It doesn't matter to them that both children and adults began to die in our country from the diseases we believed to have been eradicated long ago, and so is the government's policy towards the problem. In such a way, it refers to its resolution, but few of what you, colleagues, are interested in, so why would you be interested in whether an epidemic of goddesses or other deadly diseases, which were eradicated decades ago, will occur in some elementary school? The second question was addressed to the prime minister, addressed to the president of the Republic and addressed to Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. It is about the famous campaign "let it crash" or whatever the campaign is called. We have so far had the opportunity to hear that women in Serbia will be paid 100,000 dinars to give birth to a child and that these are practically the only measures we know that the government intends to take to encourage birth in Serbia. My question to them is do they know that 1,300 children were expelled in Novi Sad from the school's Preschool “Merciful Childhood” because parents had unmistakable obligations to the institution? Do they know that in our big cities every year several thousand children remain on waiting lists? Do they know that pregnant women in January of this year are excluded from the increase in public sector wages? Do they know that there's still no protection for women who lose their jobs if they get pregnant, if they give birth at the moment when they get back to work? Do they know that in all our homes of health we have a problem with not having enough pediatricians, about children's surgeons still not talking, and do they really think that the 100,000 dinars they're going to give someone are really going to motivate someone to have a child in the country they're building?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32227	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32228	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would ask one question to the ministry without Mr Krkobibic's portfolio, which is related to the development of cooperatives, since I have always represented the southeast of Serbia, agricultural producers and mountainous areas. The question is whether this year will continue to help cooperatives formed within the southeast of Serbia, because by mentioning cooperatives and the development of cooperatives, a large number of our people have pooled their holdings, gathered into one cooperative, so it is a great intensity for the cooperative to assist our agricultural producers to develop and to ensure faster development and villages through cooperatives, the development of small municipalities, and thus the development of southeast Serbia. I expect that the ministry run by Mr. Krkobibic will continue to work in the interests of the southeast of Serbia, as well as the whole of Serbia. That's one question. The second question is the Ministry of Education, Minister Sarčević, because I have made the Assembly's decision to help the children who enter the first grade of secondary education and we agree normally with local self-government, we give five thousand dinars from the budget of the municipality for each of the middle-class children, the first grade of secondary education in Srlig, and for those children who enroll the first grade of secondary education of dual education, there will be 50% more. I think that's very good, that's great, because this is how we want to stop our children from going from Svrlig. This example can be used by other municipalities in southeastern Serbia and their budgets to help children stay in these municipalities. And the question to Mr. Minister, will they be able to help through some programs with some other means or positive things and our municipalities that want to promote dual education in this way? One more question is the Ministry of Agriculture, will it be possible to overcome in some way the problem for those producers who are now under this regulation, which has been passed over the past month, will they have the possibility of small producers with seven sheep, and now, according to the Regulation, it takes 13 sheep, to get the asset or regression of seven thousand dinars? I can say that for small producers, this Regulation is not good and we need to find the invitation of the Minister of Agriculture, to find the possibility for these small producers who have two cows, who have up to seven sheep, who were from last year to seven goats, to provide these people with the means to replace that difference they are now losing. We are witnesses of seven sheep who have seven thousand dinars. With this money, the farmer provided himself with a certain amount of food for the livestock. Now that with 13 sheep, 80% of people will fall, those cattle will fall off and they won't have a chance and in the end they'll sell those cattle' throats they had. Once again, an invitation to the Ministry of Agriculture to find an opportunity to assist these people, or in the extreme event that the regulation is put out of force and to provide funds for these small producers. Once again, as a man and as a representative and as an expert, I'm a veterinarian, I want to tell everyone once again that what I'm saying, I speak from the heart. I support the government of the Republic of Serbia, I support our president, Mr. Vukic, but I have some things to say because these are the problems I feel about myself. I do shepherding, I have a number of throats and cows and sheep, and I know what it means to people whose money every dinar lives in these small municipalities in mountain-mounted areas, how much that dinar means to everyone. Once again, that's my question. Thank you. And I would take the opportunity, if it's not a problem, to congratulate all Orthodox believers on the Big Thursday and Easter holidays in health and joy to spend with their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32229	I thank my colleague Miletic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32230	Thank you. Our question today is to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ani Brnabic. When will the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since it is two years out of the parliamentary elections held in Serbia, take decisive steps and inform the public as well as all resolution ministers to try and make concrete measures to save the royal economy? Two years ago, in a campaign for parliamentary elections, the SNS leaders pledged to revitalise all failed royal factories and many. I would remind you that the former one of the best in Europe, and certainly the best in the Balkans, a car factory in the Kingdom, is sadly employed today by only a few dozen people. Magnochrom has also failed, the Kablar has failed, and nothing has been done for the past two years of all false promises to help and to find employment for more than 14,000 people who today in the Kingdom have no single dinar, because they have no place to work. More than a thousand young people with a high level of expertise in the city of Kralje, who has a strategic position for Serbia, who are waiting for work, but in a situation like this, with the government of Serbia, in the town where they were born, where they returned after schooling at various universities in Serbia, the job will not wait. In that sense, I ask Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, what will be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in addition to another obstruction, which is in the area, so specifically for the Morava airport for Zorana Mihajlovic and is sabotaged to open the airport to civil aviation? In July 2015 and then she was Minister, Zorana Mihajlovic promised, as well as when she answered my question in December 2016, that the airport "Morava" would start working. In July, she told reporters in half of 2016. It is appropriate for me from here from where she was sitting that in June 2017, the airport will start working for civilian traffic, as the project launched by former Minister Milutin Mrkonjic is of strategic importance for Serbia and for all citizens, not just the Raske districts, but the entire central Serbia. I do not need to remind you that the location of the airport is in the same location as the ‘Lagerians’ military airport, so that in this sense, in future co-operation of the Russian-humanitarian centre in Nis and the Morava airport, it would be of great importance for our strategic co-operation with Russia, not only in this sense, but in the area of economy. Farmers who work hard on their holdings, and above all are engaged in fruit growing and vegetables, in the short end, in the royal, entire region, have followed those false promises with great attention, but it is now clear that Zorana Mihajlovic, by taking over Konstantin airport in Nis, wants to destroy the airport because of interest and because of what she has promised the Americans and everything on Serbian and Serbian-Russian damage. It is also clear that under this authority, that is, as long as she is a minister, and urgently she should fly from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, she will not start with work for civil aviation and the Morava airport, and so all those promises made to agricultural producers, businessmen and entrepreneurs who resort to various ways to save the jobs of people who are still working in the Kingdom will be betrayed, because everything she has said so far has lied, and everything she has done has been done to harm Serbian citizens. That shows up on this case, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32231	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32232	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I am asking the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia about media attacks on President Aleksandr Vukic and his associates. For several years, especially in the last few months, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have witnessed daily malicious, brutal, tenant, hour by hour, media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, his family and his associates. These brutal media attacks are the product of domestic political and criminal groups and individuals assisted by certain centres from abroad. Together, they aim at the financial and security weakness of our country and the role of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, and for the general destabilisation of the Republic of Serbia and to halt its accelerated economic development. Certain leaders of political groups and certain political parties, such as Saša Jankovic - Sale prangia, Vuk Jeremic, called Vuk descendant, Sasa Radulović, called the bankruptcy king, Zoran Zivković, a known farmer in the attempt, Bosko Obradović, called Lupetiv, Dragan Djilas, known as the Điki Mafia, Boris Tadic, called Lipi Cane and individual actors, such as Sergei Trifunović, called pistachio or pisanović, analysts, charlatans, such as Djordje Vukadinović, called Vlah, Cvitin Milivojevic, called blabber, in the tabs and on TV screens, untrues about Aleksandr Vukic and his family, his closest associates, the daily borderline of the Republic of Serbia. So Vuk Jeremic lied that German Chancellor Angela Merkel did not want to see President Vukic in Berlin, and President Vukic had already left for a meeting with Angela Merkel in Berlin, in front of the world. Jeremic lied that President Vukic had secretly met in Paris with Thaci, and had secretly travelled to New York, and the president had travelled to New York on a plane containing 50 passengers. Jeremic lied that President Vukic had rented a lobbyist group for expensive money. The truth is, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that Jeremic and Tadic paid a million dollars in time to a certain Milan Petrovic-Ilinois, our couples, although there was no use for the Republic of Serbia. Jeremic uncontestedly questioned the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia for the first time before the UN General Assembly's General Assembly's General Committee made a controversial motion for a resolution seeking the International Court of Justice's opinion on the legality of Kosovo and Metohija's unilateral independence and thus stabbed not only Serbs in KIM, but also the state of Serbia as a whole. Vuk Jeremic framed the Serbian public with Mission Eulex in Kosovo and Metohija and thus transferred negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija from UN jurisdiction in the EU's jurisdiction, and thus for the second time stabbed not only Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but also in the country as a whole. As a result, Jeremic received a prize from his Western sponsors, becoming president of the UN General Assembly. Boris Tadic, Sasa Jankovic, Vuk Jeremic, Sasa Radulovic, Bosko Obradovic, Zoran Zivkovic accused President Vukic and Serbian Cypriot terrorists of brutal beating, torture and humiliation, Mark Djuric and Serbs of Kosovo's future, Rahim Pecoli of preparing the script for the arrest of Mark Djuric. In media attacks against Aleksandra Vukic, Aleksandra Martinović, Maja Gojkovic also included N1, CIA TV and journalists Cvitin Milivojevic, Olja Bećković and your professor, Dr Slobodanka Turajlic, the Soros Fund. In the most primitive, the most ground-based, brutal way of untruely bordering on the other side of the mind, they insulted President Vukic, Dr Aleksandra Martinović and Maja Gojkovic, all SNS MPs and their constituents, calling them donkeys, idiots, human zeroes, liars, human zeroes, brutals prepared for all and other ugly names. Dr. Turajlic, who speaks from Soros mouth, I recommend that all these offices frame nicely and hang on to the wall of his living room to remind him daily of his rich democratic and civilization culture. I ask the question – are there any elements of criminal prosecution in the media attacks on Alexander Vukic and his associates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32233	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. Since no one from the president, or from the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, is answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Petar Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. We continue our work and move on to a decision on the motion for a sitting session of the act during the session. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 168 of the 3rd and 4th centuries. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, during the session of the National Assembly, may be placed exceptionally on the agenda of the session, on the condition that most of the majority of the MPs attend the session. Any proposal for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, the National Assembly shall decide, without delay, when setting the agenda, or during the sitting immediately following the receipt of the proposal, provided that the majority of the Members of Parliament are present. Given that the procedure has reached the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group, with a proposal to be adopted by an emergency procedure during the session, and given that the majority of the total number of MPs attends today's session, the conditions for the National Assembly to be made known on this proposal have been met. In line with that, we're moving on to a decision. Member of the SNS Group, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an urgent procedure, it be included in the agenda of the current session of the point – a Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATE OF SERBIA, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted – seven. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Does the National MP's representative, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, president of the SNS parliamentary group, want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We do not have a list of registered MPs. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 5 April 2018, starting at 10.48 p.m. as the day for voting on agenda items of the second session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 133 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we are moving to a decision on the draft law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. I put to the vote the draft law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted—four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has no one to vote. 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above the title of Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MPplatmir Stevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nedjo Jovanovic and Ivana Dinic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14, against – 120 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MPs Vesna Ivković and Dr Ljubinko Rakonjac together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Vladan Zagradjanin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 121 MPs for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Mirjana Dragas and Marjana Maras together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 122 MPs for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Stefana Miladanovic and MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 15, against – 120 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Danila Stojadinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 10, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 125 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for—seven against—128 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, for 131 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ostova Mijailovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two – no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 132 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 10, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 125 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 115 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one who has voted 119 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 124 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 121 MPs for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one who has voted 119 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 116 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 15, against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, for 131 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted with 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Ljubiška Lakatoš, submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 121 MPs for—13. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 20, against – 114 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 119 MPs for – 15. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14, against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 117 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14, against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 121 MPs for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 113 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 117 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 113 MPs for – 22. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 116 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14, against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 115 MPs for – 19 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 112 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihajlo Jokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 117 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 113 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one who voted 118 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Maja Machusic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 117 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstentions has voted 121 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 119 MPs for – 15. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, and there is no one who has ever voted for 125 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 118 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 118 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 23, no one, 112 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 15, against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 15, against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 15, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 121 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions for four, and 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 108 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 129 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—nine against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 127 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 115 MPs for – 21 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 117 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 126 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 111 MPs for – 25. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 108 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 117 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 119 MPs for – 18. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 117 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 122 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 119 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 119 MPs for – 18. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 118 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 119 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 118 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one who voted 126 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 131 was not voted by the Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two and two, there is no one who has been held back, who has not voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Sreto Peric and MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People’s MPs Marjana Marash and Joseph Broz submitted to the 2nd Amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two and two, there is no one who has been held back, who has not voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 131 was not voted by the Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 118 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, for nine, who has not voted for 128 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who is eight, who has not been voted by 129 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two and two, there is no one who has been held back, who has not voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 126 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 131 was not voted by the Messenger of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ostova Mijailovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one with abstentions has voted 121 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 113 MPs for – 24. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 14, against – 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 14, against – 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted for – 16 against - 121 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 118 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, for nine, who has not voted for 128 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 120 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 12 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 113 MPs for – 24. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who is eight, who has not been voted by 129 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 126 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 14, against – 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 118 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 25, no one, 112 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not 114 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no 117 MPs voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, for nine, who has not voted for 128 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 125 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 117 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 99 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one with abstentions has voted 121 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 118 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one with abstentions has voted 121 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one who is abstentioned has voted for 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 122 MPs for – 15. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 14, against – 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 117 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 115 MPs for – 21 against – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 25, no one, 112 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 120 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 107 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 115 MPs for – 22. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Maja Macužic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 113 MPs for – 24. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one with abstentions has voted 114 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 119 MPs for – 18. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 117 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 126 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 115 MPs for – 22. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 117 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 27, against – none of the abstentions – 110 MPs voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 21 against – 116 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 117 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 101 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 104 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – 15, against – no one who is abstentioned – who has not voted 121 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 118 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 126 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 114 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for—five, no one, 131, was a Messenger of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Milekic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one with abstention – has voted 101 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 123 MPs. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 Members of the people. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 102 MPs. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 111 MPs for – 25. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 113 MPs for – 23. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstentions has voted 121 MPs. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 106 MPs for – 28, against. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one who voted 118 of the People's Messengers. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 108 MPs. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 105 MPs for – 29 against. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted for 127 Members of the people. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 27, no one, 108 MPs. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 115 MPs for – 20 against. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 11 against – 122 MPs. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 100 MPs. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 15, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 118 MPs. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 126 Messengers did not vote. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 109 MPs for – 24. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 15, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 118 MPs. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. The title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I'm saying the National Assembly didn't accept the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I'm saying the National Assembly didn't accept the amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I'm saying the National Assembly didn't accept the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by a Messenger of the people. I'm saying the National Assembly didn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32234	I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 3 that were submitted jointly by MPs Neđo Jovanovic, Miletic Mihajlovic and Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 together by MPs Ivana Dinic and Dr Danica Bukvic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstention, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15, against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15, against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 5, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for—22, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: for—21, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ostoja Mijailovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for – 30, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: for—22, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: for—15, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for—26, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: for—23, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: for—31, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: for—27, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: for—23, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for – 32, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for—27, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for—24, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for—33, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – 40, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: for—33, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for—25, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 29 against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 26, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—27 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 28, against – 28. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 32, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 29 against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Ostova Mijailovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for – 24, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for – 24, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: for – 27, against – there is no one who is restrained. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: for – 27, against – there is no one who is restrained. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for –32, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote: for – 26, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: for – 32, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: for – 24, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: for – 35, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for – 27, against – there is no one who is restrained. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 27, against – there is no one who is restrained. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – 35, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: for – 28, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for – 25, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 28, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokić. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for—21, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Maja Macužic. I conclude the vote: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: for – 32, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: for—21, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for—27, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for—33, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for—29, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: for—15, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: for—22, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: for—26, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 35, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – 13. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: for—27, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title and title above Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th Amendment was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Mirjana Dragas, Snezana Paunovic and Dr Ljubinko Rakonjac put together the title above Article 6 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Miletic Mihajlovic, Neđo Jovanovic and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs of the Prophet Radet and Alexander Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs were submitted to the 7th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs were submitted to the 9th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric put together the title above members and Article 10 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Bozidar Delic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted an amendment to Article 12. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment, which is added after Article 12, by a new member of 12a, was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 14th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and five MPs from the SDS, with a correction. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted the amendment to Article 14. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dr. Ivan Bauer. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 15th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović and five MPs of the SDS, with a correction. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs were submitted to the 15th amendment by the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 16th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and five MPs of the SDS, with a correction. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic together submitted five MPs to the SDS group, the People's Party, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs were submitted to the 17th amendment by the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Ivan Bauer, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 7, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radet and five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs were submitted to the 18th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic and five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric and the five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party, submitted together with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 21st amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić submitted to the 21st Amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs were submitted to the 22nd amendment by the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic together submitted the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by 10 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 23rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs of the Prophet Radet and Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Ivan Bauer, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs were submitted to the 24th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 25th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 26th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by 10 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 26th Amendment, with a correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic jointly submitted the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic jointly submitted the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of Parliament Sreto Peric and Marina Ristic jointly submitted the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 27, which, with correction, have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 27, which were submitted jointly by the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 27, which have been tabled by the 10 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 27, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 28, with an amendment tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which was tabled by 10 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which has been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 28 to be put to the vote, which were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 29th vote, which was tabled by 10 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 29 to the vote, with an amendment tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 29, which have been tabled by five Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 29, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radet and Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 30 to the vote, with an amendment tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 30, which were jointly submitted by the Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 30, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 30th vote, which was tabled by the 10 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 31 to the vote, with an amendment tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 31, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 31, which were jointly submitted by the Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32 to the vote, with an amendment tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 32, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 32, which were submitted jointly by the People's MPs of the Prophets Rade and Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 33, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 34 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 34, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radet and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 34 to the vote, with an amendment tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 34, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 35 to the vote, with an amendment tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 35, which were tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 35, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 36, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 36, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 37 to the vote, with an amendment tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 37, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 38 to the vote, with an amendment tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 38, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radet and Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 38, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 38, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 39, which was tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 39, which have been tabled by five Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 39, which have been tabled by the 10 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 39, which were submitted jointly by the MPs of the Verica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which has been tabled by the 10 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the KSP Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which were put together by the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Radet and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 41, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the KSP Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 41, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radet and LJljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 42, which, with correction, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 42, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 42, which have been tabled by the 10 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 42 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the KSP Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 43, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 43, which, with correction, have submitted five MPs to the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 43, which were tabled in the same text by five MPs of the KSP Group and 10 MPs of the DS Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 44, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the KSP Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the same article in the same text, which were tabled by five MPs of the KSP Group and 10 MPs of the DS Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 45, which were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 45, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 46, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the KSP Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 46 which have been tabled by 10 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 46, which, with correction, submitted five MPs to the SDS Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 46, which were submitted jointly by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the same article 47, which were put together by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic and five MPs of the SDS Group, with a correction. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 47 which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs of the KSP Group and 10 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 48 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the KSP Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 48, which have been tabled by the 10 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 48, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radet and Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 49, which was tabled by Parliamentarian Branka Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for - no one, against -one, abstention - no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 49, which has been tabled by the 10 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 49, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the KSP Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 50, which, with correction, have submitted five MPs to the SDS Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 50, which were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 50, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 50, which, in the same text, have submitted five MPs of the KSP Group and 10 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 51, which were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 51, which, with correction, submitted five MPs to the SDS Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 51, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the KSP Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 52 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the KSP Group of Members. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 52, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 52nd article, which, in the same text, were submitted jointly by the MPs Ružica Nikola and Aleksandar Seselj and the five MPs of the SDS Group, with a correction. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 52, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 53 to the amendment, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. Before we go to the vote, please determine the quorum. Please insert the cards again, there's something wrong with the electronic system. I put to the vote the draft law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, in general. 134 MPs attend the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on textbooks to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32235	11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above the members and Article 4 of the amendment was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 7th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club submitted the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 9th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the member and member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the member and Article 12 of the amendment was filed by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted the amendment to Article 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by the 129 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 15th amendment by the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 17th amendment by the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 18th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted the amendment to Article 19. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Eleven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for the three against them. 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Branko Stamenkovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The name above the member and article 26 of the amendment was filed by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against one, has voted against the abstentions 131, a Messenger of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs were submitted to the 28th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 133 peoples. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 133 peoples. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 35th amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 133 peoples. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 133 peoples. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you first that the National Assembly will work today even after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Please confirm the quorum. Throw in your cards. Thank you. I find that 126 MPs are present in the O.R. We've got a quorum to work with and we're moving on. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, voted 130, out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, voted 130, out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by seven MPs from the Dveri Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by 11 MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on textbooks in general. I conclude the vote: for – 129, against – one, not three, out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on textbooks. We move to the third item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION INSPECTION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on educational inspection to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not one out of 133 members of the people present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, out of 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment to which a name is added after Article 2 above a new member and a new Article 2a. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandra Belacic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic put together the title above members and Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 15th Amendment was submitted by five MPs from the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on educational inspection in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – one abstention – there is no vote, two out of the 134 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on educational inspection. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for an ELECTRON GOVERNMENT LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft e-government law to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – has voted three out of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-05-0.u32237	I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 which have been tabled by 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 4 which were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic proposed amendments to Articles 4, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 33, 34, 37, 39, 42, 47 and 53. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 6th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 7 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 7th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 8th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 9th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 9 together by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put to vote the amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic on behalf of members and members 10. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 10, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 11, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 12, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 13th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 14, which have been tabled by 11 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 15, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 16 which have been tabled by five Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 16th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 17th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 17, which has been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 20, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which have been tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 24 which have been tabled by five Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 25, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 25, which were submitted jointly by the MPs of Vjerica Radet and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 27th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 29th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 31, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32, which were tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 34, which were tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 34, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 35, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 36, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 36, which were tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 37, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 38, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 39, which have been tabled by five Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 39, which was tabled by 11 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which has been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 41, which were tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 41, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 43, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 43, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 44th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 45, which has been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 45th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 46, which have been tabled by 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 46, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 47th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 47, which were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 47, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 48, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 48th article, which, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic and 11 MPs from the Democratic Party. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 49, which were tabled by 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 49, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Seselj and Verice Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote, which has been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 50, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote, which was tabled by 11 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 51 which have been tabled by 11 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 52, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 52, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 52, which have been tabled by 11 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 53rd vote, which has been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 53rd vote in the same text as the MPs Vjerica Radet and Ružica Nikolic and 11 MPs of the DS group together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 54, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 54, which have been tabled by 11 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 55, which has been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would ask the MPs before we move to the vote to determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft e-Government bill in general. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the draft e-Government law. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on national geospace data infrastructure, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 1st People's MPs Vjerica Radet, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 together by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 together by the MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 4th party, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 6th vote, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 7 put forward jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav LJubenović and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 9 together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 10th, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 10, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 12th, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 13 that were submitted jointly by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 14, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 15 and the title above Article 15, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 15, which were jointly submitted by the MPs of the KSP parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 16th and the title above the 16th members who together have been tabled by the MPs Vjerica, Rade, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic, I conclude the vote: for –no one, against – no one, with abstentions – is there. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 17, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 18 and the title above article 18, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 19, which were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 19, which were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 20th and the title above Articles 20, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica, Rade, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 21, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21, which have been tabled by five Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 22, which were submitted jointly by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade, Zoran Krasic, and Aleksandar Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 24 and the title above Article 24, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Verica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 25, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 26, which were submitted jointly by MPs Petar Jojic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 27, which were submitted jointly by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which were jointly tabled by MPs Momcilo Mandic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 29, which were submitted jointly by the MPs, Verica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 30th and the title above Article 30, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 31, which were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 32, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vesna Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 33 and the title above article 33, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 34, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 34, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 35th and the title above the 35th, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 36, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 36, which were tabled by the 10 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 37, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 38, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 38, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on national geospace data infrastructure, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on national geospace data infrastructure. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 131. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group, by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta at a session on 28 March 2018, at 11.39 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on March 28th at 12 hours and 23 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 107th and 27th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that those members have not been injured. National MP Dijana Vukomanovic, at a session on March 28th at 17am and 23 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, at a session on March 28th at 17am and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Verica Radet, at a session on April 2nd at 17am and eight minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radet, at a session on April 2nd at 17am and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session held on 2 April 2018 at 17 hours and 14 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on April 2nd at 17am and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on April 4th at 10pm and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27th and 107th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 4 April 2018 at 11 pm and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 4 April 2018 at 11 o'clock and 28 minutes, pointed to Article 38's injury in relation to Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 4 April 2018 at 11 o'clock and 42 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on April 4th at 12pm and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 27 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session held on 4 April 2018 at 12 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 32(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 4 April 2018 at 12 hours and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 4 April 2018 at 12 hours and 37 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session held on 4 April 2018 at 15 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session held on 4 April 2018 at 15 hours and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 4 April 2018 at 15 hours and 54 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. (The session is over for 16.10 hours. )
