ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-25-0.u43321	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards once more. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts in points 5 to 33 of the agenda. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships, 2009, in general. I conclude the vote: four MPs did not vote for – 130, against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted four MPs for – 131. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia No. 1/2018 amending Protocol B to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia on the definition of the concept of ‘produced products’ and methods of administrative co-operation and the Decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFF and the Republic of Serbia No. 2/2018 amending the Annex IV to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia on the Facilitation of Trade, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the visa waiver of holders of ordinary passports, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Additional Protocol 5 to the Agreement amending and joining the Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe and Decision of the Joint Committee on Free Trade in Central Europe No 3/2015 adopted on 26 November 2015 amending the Decision of the Joint Committee on Free Trade in Central Europe No 3/2013 on Annex 4 to the Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe (CEFTA 2006), the Protocol on the definition of the concept of "produced products" and the methods of administrative co-operation referred to in Articles 1 and 3 adopted on 20 November 2013, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax ejaculation in relation to income taxes, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming Protocol I of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey and Protocol III on trade in services of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on facilitating the application of the European Convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters from 20 April 1959, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on facilitating the application of the European Convention on Extradition of 13 December 1957, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on mutual incentive and protection of investment, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer of convicted persons, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill in general. It puts to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the provision of legal assistance in criminal matters, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Kazakhstan on extradition, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on natural gas deliveries from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia since 13 October 2012, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Economic, Trade and Technical Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Qatar, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on trade and economic co-operation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the mutual protection of the exchange of classified information, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Co-production (revised) in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on trade and economic co-operation, in co-operation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I'm putting the bill on the bill to confirm the acts of the World Postal Federation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece on co-operation in the field of tourism, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Nagoya Protocol on the Access to Genetic Resources and Fair and Equal Distribution of the benefits arising from their use under the Convention on Biological Variety, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a law on the validation of the multilateral agreement of the countries of South-Eastern Europe on the implementation of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on international road transport, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Social Security Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the Vice-Government of the National Bank of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the vice-governments of the National Bank of Serbia on the election and wish them success in their work. This concludes today's vote. Resume session, the amendment debate is tomorrow at 10.00. Thank you.
